### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Matching** - Matching is a statistical technique commonly used in case-control studies. By matching cases and controls based on potential confounders, this technique may help detect exposures (history of feeding problems, history of URI) that are relevant to the outcome of interest (BRUE).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Stratified analysis** - Stratified analysis involves assessing the relationship between exposure and outcome in subgroups of the study population. The technique described above involves a sampling method rather than a method of data analysis.

**B - Increased sample size** - While increasing the sample size of a study would increase its statistical power, it would not help to control confounding bias.

**C - Blinding** - Blinding is a practice used to decrease the likelihood of bias, e.g., when investigators are blinded to which patients receive treatment versus placebo, or when patients are blinded to whether they are receiving treatment or placebo. The technique described above is not related to blinding, and blinding does not decrease confounding bias.

**D - Restriction** - Restriction is a technique used to control confounding factors. It involves limiting the study population to patients that meet certain criteria (e.g., if the gender is a potential confounder, the investigator could allow only females to join the study population). Restriction limits generalizability and makes obtaining a sufficiently large sample size more difficult. This technique is not what is described in this case.

**E - Randomization** - Randomization is a method to prevent confounding that involves randomly assigning study participants to either the control or the experimental group. In the study described above, researchers defined the study cases based on an outcome that had already occurred (75 infants under 6 months of age with BRUE). No randomization has taken place.

