### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - B** - Point B on the ROC curve represents the new cutoff point for severe depression. In ROC curves, the y-axis represents the sensitivity (i.e., true positive rate) and the x-axis corresponds to 1 - specificity (i.e., false positive rate). By lowering the cutoff from 20 to 15 out of 27 points, more people will be diagnosed as severely depressed. Thus, the sensitivity (epidemiology) of the PHQ-9 test slightly increases (i.e., more true positives). At the same time, however, the specificity will decrease (i.e., more false positives).

Image File: 105-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5efc77939fb57.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - Changing the cutoff value from 20 to 15 out of 27 points affects the sensitivity (epidemiology) and specificity of the PHQ-9 questionnaire and, thus, the position of the cutoff on the ROC curve as well.

**C - C** - This would represent an increased cutoff value (e.g., a total score of 25 out of 27 as diagnostic cutoff instead of a total score of 20 out of 27) on the PHQ-9 questionnaire. An increased cutoff value would go hand in hand with an increased specificity (more true negatives and fewer false positives) but decreased sensitivity (fewer true positives).

**D - D** - Changing the cutoff of the PHQ-9 questionnaire would not change the general course of the ROC curve. An altogether different questionnaire would have a different ROC curve (e.g., the middle one).

**E - E** - Changing the cutoff of the PHQ-9 questionnaire would not change the general course of the ROC curve. An altogether different questionnaire would have a different ROC curve (e.g., the middle one).

**F - F** - Changing the cutoff of the PHQ-9 questionnaire would not change the general course of the ROC curve. An altogether different questionnaire would have a different ROC curve (e.g., the middle one).

**G - G** - A curve close to or on the diagonal line (i.e., line of no-discrimination) indicates a non-diagnostic or useless study. On this line, sensitivity (epidemiology) equals 1 - specificity and the positive likelihood ratio equals 1. This means that the test in question is no more diagnostic than chance, i.e., a test that yields the positive or negative results entirely unrelated to the true disease status. Changing the cutoff of the questionnaire would not render the test useless.

