### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - 70%** - The probability that this patient does not have prostate cancer despite having a PSA value above the cutoff (i.e., PSA > 4 ng/mL) is calculated as 100% minus the PPV: 100% - 30% = 70%. Of those patients who test positive, 70% do not have prostate cancer (false positives with, e.g., benign prostatic hyperplasia, prostatitis, perineal trauma), while 30% do have prostate cancer (true positives). To increase the value of a diagnostic test, it is important to consider the pretest probability of having the disease. In this patient, who has no family history of prostate cancer, no symptoms of prostate cancer (urinary retention, hematuria, back pain, incontinence), and an unremarkable rectal examination, the pretest probability of having the disease is low, and, therefore, the probability of a false positive is high. Also, this patient's symptoms of nocturia could be related to benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH); PSA has a poor discriminatory ability in men with symptomatic BPH.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - 21%** - 21% is the proportion of men with prostate cancer who are correctly identified as having the disease (sensitivity). The rather low sensitivity (epidemiology) and specificity of the PSA limit its use a a screening test, although the validity is comparable to that of other screening tests, such as mammography.

**B - 79%** - 79% is the proportion of all patients with prostate cancer that will falsely test negative (i.e., PSA ≤ 4 ng/mL), or the false negative ratio. It is calculated as 100% minus sensitivity (epidemiology): 100% - 21% = 79%.

**C - 85%** - 85% is the chance that a person with a negative test result (i.e., PSA ≤ 4 ng/mL) truly does not have the disease (negative predictive value). This relatively high NPV is the strength of the PSA screening test; if the test is negative, the patient is very unlikely to have prostate cancer.

**D - 15%** - 15% is the probability that a patient does have prostate cancer despite a negative test result (i.e., PSA ≤ 4 ng/mL). It is calculated as 100% minus NPV: 100% - 85% = 15%.

**E - 30%** - 30% is the probability that a person with a positive test result (i.e., PSA > 4 ng/mL) truly does have the disease (positive predictive value). The relatively low PPV indicates that a large proportion of the positive results from this screening test are false positives.

**G - 9%** - 9% is the proportion of all patients without prostate cancer that will falsely test positive (i.e., PSA > 4 ng/mL), or the false positive ratio. It is calculated as 100% minus specificity: 100% - 91% = 9%. The high specificity suggests that the PSA is helpful for identifying individuals who are free of prostate cancer.

