### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Incidence during the month of May was 2** - Incidence is the number of new cases of a disease that develop during a specified period of time. It represents the likelihood of developing the disease during that time. Based on the figure, 2 new cases appeared in May (patient 3 and patient 5 developed an MS flare).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Incidence from April 1st to June 1st was 3** - Only 2 patients (patients 3 and 5) developed MS flares between April and June. Patients 1 and 2 had already been diagnosed with an MS flare before the beginning of April (the incidence includes new cases only).

**C - Prevalence during the month of December was 50%** - The prevalence includes all cases of a disease in a population, both new and preexisting. During December, 2 of the 6 persons (∼ 33.3 %) had MS flares (patient 2 and 6).

**D - Incidence during the month of February was 3** - Only 1 patient (patient 1) developed an MS flare in February. While patients 2 and 3 did have an MS flare in February, the onset of their symptoms began before February and therefore does not factor into the incidence for that month.

**E - The year-long prevalence was 4/6** - The year-long prevalence (total number of all cases of MS flares including both new and preexisting cases) was 5 persons. Of the six students evaluated, all but one (patient 4) had MS flares during this year at some point or for its entirety.

**F - Prevalence of the disease on May 15 was 4/6** - The prevalence includes all cases of a disease, both new and preexisting, in a population at a specified point in time (point prevalence) or a time period (period prevalence). On May 15th, 3 persons had MS flares (patients 2, 3, and 5).

**G - Attack rate during this year was 3/6** - The attack rate is the number of all new cases in an at-risk population over a specified time period. The term attack rate is typically used in the setting of a disease outbreak (e.g., an outbreak of food poisoning) and is often used interchangeably with cumulative incidence. Since 4 of the 6 individuals at risk developed MS flares, the attack rate during the year in question was 4/6 persons. Patient 2 had preexisting MS flares that continued for the entire year, and patient 4 did not develop any flares at all. Patients 2 and 5 had flares persisting beyond this period.

