### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Cross-sectional study** - The use of a healthcare survey to determine the prevalence of syphilis and genitourinary chlamydia at a single point in time is consistent with a cross-sectional study. A cross-sectional study determines the prevalence of variables of interest simultaneously, at a specific point in time (snapshot study). It allows conclusions to be drawn about associations between an exposure (genitourinary chlamydia) and outcome (syphilis) but usually not about causality (e.g., it cannot show that genitourinary chlamydia infection always precedes syphilis infection).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Meta-analysis** - In a meta-analysis, data from multiple studies is pooled to increase statistical power and to identify discrepancies and/or common effects among studies. The research group here conducted an individual study.

**B - Single-blind clinical trial** - In a single-blind clinical trial, only researchers know who is a control or treatment candidate. This study was of an observational nature, however, and did not involve administration or testing of a treatment.

**C - Double-blind clinical trial** - In a double-blind clinical trial, neither the researcher nor the study participants know who is a control or treatment candidate. This study was of an observational nature, however, and did not involve administration or testing of a treatment.

**D - Ecological study** - An ecological study assesses a whole population or community for exposures and outcomes. Here, data from a survey of citizens/individuals was collected rather than aggregate data at the population level (e.g., counting all diagnoses in a city or country).

**F - Case-control study** - Case-control studies are helpful for determining the presence of risk factors for (rare) diseases. It starts with two groups: one with the disease of interest (case group: syphilis), and one without the disease (control group: no syphilis). The risk of exposure to a risk factor of interest (e.g., genitourinary chlamydia infection) is then determined. Here, the research group looked at data at a single point in time.

**G - Prospective cohort study** - A prospective cohort study starts with individuals who are either exposed or not exposed to a particular risk factor (here genitourinary chlamydia infection). These two groups are then followed for a period of time to see if the disease of interest (syphilis) develops. In this study, however, data was collected at a single point in time and not in a longitudinal study over time. Cohort studies are well-suited to calculate disease incidence but not prevalence.

**H - Case series** - A case series is a quantitative compilation of similar individual cases. This research group used a healthcare survey, a systemic collection of data, for their study.

**I - Retrospective cohort study** - A retrospective cohort study starts with individuals who are either exposed or not exposed to a particular risk factor (here genitourinary chlamydia infection). A review of medical records of patients in both groups is then conducted to determine if the disease of interest (here syphilis) has developed. In this study, however, data was collected at a single point in time and not in a longitudinal study over time. Cohort studies are well-suited to calculate disease incidence but not prevalence.

