### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Larger effect size** - In a PP analysis, the evaluation of the effect of treatment assumes optimal trial conditions (i.e., an ideal scenario in which all patients receive and complete the treatment regimen they were assigned). In a real clinical scenario, however, patients may be nonadherent to treatment or lost to follow-up. This means that a PP analysis tends to overestimate the difference between outcomes in the treatment and placebo groups, which results in larger effect size (i.e., greater strength of association). Moreover, PP analysis increases the risk of biases (e.g., selection bias, confounding bias) because the original randomization of the trial is lost. On the other hand, an ITT analysis results in a smaller effect size (i.e., avoids overestimation of the new intervention's effect), greater generalizability (external validity) of results, and preserves randomization, which decreases the risk of bias.

An as-treated analysis (sometimes considered a subtype of PP analysis) evaluates patients according to the intervention they actually received, no matter which intervention they were originally assigned. This type of analysis is primarily used to assess the side effects of interventions.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Higher type 2 error probability** - Despite a slight reduction in sample size, a PP analysis has a lower, not higher, risk of type 2 error compared to ITT analysis because PP analysis tends to overestimate the effect of the studied treatment. This also means that a PP analysis has a higher risk of type 1 error compared to ITT analysis.

**C - Greater external validity** - When compared to ITT analysis, a PP analysis has less, not more, external validity (generalizability). A PP analysis is used to evaluate the treatment effect in an ideal scenario, in which all patients received and completed the treatment regimen by the end of the trial, rather than a scenario that more closely resembles a true clinical setting, where nonadherence is common (as in an ITT analysis).

**D - Lower confounding risk** - When compared to ITT analysis, PP analysis reduces the degree of randomization, which normally results in groups with equal distributions of known and unknown confounders. The risk of bias (e.g., selection bias, confounding bias) thereby increases due to potential nonrandom nonadherence. Therefore, the risk of confounding is higher, not lower, in a PP analysis.

**E - Shorter lead time** - Lead time is often discussed in the context of a screening test for a chronic disease in which the studied outcome is survival. Since earlier diagnosis does not necessarily result in increased survival, the lead time may result in bias (i.e., lead time bias). In this scenario, the lead time is irrelevant because the study focuses on the efficacy of a new medication and not on a diagnostic test.

