### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Fever** - In the table, fever has the highest sensitivity (0.80) for acute appendicitis in children under the age of 2 years. If a highly sensitive test (e.g., core body temperature) yields a negative result (e.g., afebrile), the disease can be more reliably ruled out. For this reason, tests with high sensitivity are often used for screening purposes.

Abdominal rebound, which has even higher sensitivity, has only been assessed in children ≥ 5 years of age and can therefore not be used in this patient.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Guarding** - Guarding has the highest specificity (0.85) of all the clinical findings presented. A measure or test with high specificity is most useful for the confirmation of a diagnosis after a positive screening test. Therefore, it is used to confirm, rather than rule out, a disease.

**C - Anorexia** - Anorexia has the lowest specificity for acute appendicitis out of the clinical findings presented in the table. A test with a low specificity means that the feature being tested is more likely to be present in individuals who do not have the disease (i.e., high false positive rate). For this reason, even if this patient had no history of anorexia, appendicitis could not be confidently ruled out.

**D - Rebound** - In the table, rebound has the highest sensitivity (0.85) of all clinical findings studied in the > 5 year age group. Rebound would be the correct answer if the patient were over 5 years of age. However, this child is only 1 year of age, and the table does not present data on the role of rebound tenderness in the evaluation of appendicitis in those < 5 years of age. Therefore, a negative test result for rebound would not help to rule out appendicitis in this child.

**E - Vomiting** - Vomiting has the lowest sensitivity (0.40) for appendicitis out of all the clinical findings presented. A test with a low sensitivity means that the feature being tested is less likely to be present in individuals who have the disease. For this reason, even if this patient had no history of vomiting, appendicitis could not be confidently ruled out.

