### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Decrease in standard error of the mean** - The standard error of the mean (SEM) is a measure of the dispersion of a random set of sample means around the true population mean. It is dependent on the variability (i.e., standard deviation) of the measured values (in this case, IQ scores) and the sample size (SEM = SD/√n). By increasing the sample size, the sample means approach the true population mean, resulting in a smaller SEM. In contrast, a greater standard deviation and/or a smaller sample size will increase the SEM, resulting in a less accurate estimate. The SEM is commonly used to calculate confidence intervals that indicate, with a given level of confidence, the range of values within which the true mean of the underlying population falls.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increase in range of the confidence interval** - An increase in the range of the confidence interval would be expected if there was a decrease in the size of the sample population. The width of the confidence interval is an indicator of the uncertainty in the estimator statistic (in this case, the mean IQ). Smaller study populations are more subject to the effects of chance, leading to less precision in the estimate of the mean that manifests as a wider confidence interval. In contrast, increasing the sample size will mitigate the effects of chance, providing a more precise estimate of the true mean that manifests as a narrower confidence interval (decreased range).

**B - Decrease in standard deviation** - Standard deviation measures the dispersion or spread in data and is an intrinsic property of the population from which the sample is drawn. Increasing the sample size may increase the accuracy of estimating the standard deviation, but it will not change the standard deviation itself.

**D - Increase in risk of systematic error** - Systematic error is a form of bias in which a consistent, repeatable error occurs, most often as a result of faulty equipment. A simple example would be trying to estimate the mean body weight of a population using an incorrectly calibrated scale (e.g., one that consistently shows a weight 3 pounds less than the true weight). A change in sample size would not predispose to this type of error. Random error, on the other hand, is inherent in any sample statistic that estimates a true population parameter. Random error can be reduced by increasing the sample size but systematic error cannot.

**E - Increase in probability of type II error** - A type II error occurs when the null hypothesis is accepted despite it being false (false-negative error). The probability of type II error (denoted by β) is inversely related to the statistical power of a study (statistical power = 1 - β). Since the statistical power of a study increases with sample size, the probability of type II error will decrease, not increase, under the new study conditions.

