### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Intention-to-treat analysis** - An intention-to-treat analysis is a statistical method in which the data of every patient enrolled in a study is used for data analysis (including data from drop-out patients), and in which each patient is analyzed as part of the treatment group that they were randomly assigned to at the beginning of the study (regardless of the treatment they eventually receive). This analysis includes data from all patients and preserves the original randomization, giving a more accurate estimate of the efficacy of the tested treatment and minimizing selection bias when compared to data analysis that excludes drop-out patients. In the described study, the large drop-out rate as a result of nonadherence and loss to follow-up may have created selection bias and the shown improvement of progression-free survival under pomalidomide may be falsely skewed in favor of the treatment. An intention-to-treat analysis is an appropriate technique to address this bias.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Subgroup analysis** - A subgroup analysis (or stratified data analysis) is a statistical method that can be used when a third variable seems to either influence a study outcome (effect modifier) or correlate with the exposure and the outcome (confounder). Study groups are divided into subgroups according to the third variable and measures of association can be calculated for each subgroup. A subgroup analysis adjusts for an effect modifier or a confounder. In the described study, this method can improve the estimate of the real effect of pomalidomide on patients with SMM. However, this technique does not minimize selection bias because the original randomization is lost with this method.

**B - Noninferiority trial** - A noninferiority trial is a type of clinical trial that aims to show that the efficacy of a tested treatment is not substantially smaller than the efficacy of the established control treatment. Noninferiority trials are most commonly used when placebo control would be unethical. The described study is an unblinded, randomized controlled trial with a treatment group and a placebo group. By definition, noninferiority trials do not compare treatment to placebo, but rather to control treatment. Furthermore, noninferiority is a study design and not a method of statistical analysis, so it cannot be applied in hindsight. Noninferiority trials are also susceptible to the same biases as superiority trials.

**D - Per-protocol analysis** - A per-protocol analysis is a statistical method in which the study groups are compared using data only from the patients who finished the treatment that they were originally assigned. This analysis is used to evaluate the treatment effect under optimal conditions. Using a per-protocol analysis in the described study improves the estimate of the real effect of pomalidomide on patients with SMM. However, this method tends to overestimate the effects of the tested treatment because it does not take into account when patients drop out of the study. Furthermore, this technique does not minimize selection bias because the original randomization is lost with this method.

**E - Crossover trial** - A crossover trial is a type of clinical study in which each patient serves as their own control. Crossover studies improve the estimates of the real effect of a treatment by reducing confounding bias. However, the described study is an unblinded, randomized controlled trial with a defined treatment group and a placebo group. The patients do not switch from the treatment group to the control group or vice versa during the study. Crossover is a study design and not a method of statistical analysis and cannot be applied in hindsight.

