### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Improved quality of care for PBC** - In a stable population, the prevalence is approximated as the incidence multiplied by the average duration of the disease. An increased prevalence of disease with a stable incidence can be explained by factors that result in increased survival and prolonged duration of the disease, such as an improvement in the quality of care of patients with PBC.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increased exposure to environmental risk factors for PBC** - An increase in exposure to environmental risk factors for PBC would likely result in an increased incidence and prevalence of PBC. In this case, however, incidence has remained stable for the past 20 years.

**C - Increased availability of diagnostic testing for PBC** - If diagnostic testing for PBC becomes more readily available, more people are diagnosed with the disease and, therefore, both incidence and prevalence would rise. In this case, incidence has remained stable for the past 20 years.

**D - Increased average age of the population at risk for PBC** - Because PBC is usually diagnosed between the ages of 35–65, an aging population would put more individuals at risk of developing PBC, and therefore lead to an increase in the number of new cases of PBC. This would, however, increase both the incidence and prevalence of the disease. In this case, the incidence of PBC has remained stable.

**E - Increased awareness of PBC among clinicians** - Increased awareness of PBC among clinicians would likely lead to a higher index of suspicion for PBC, increased testing, and, subsequently, an increase in the number of new diagnoses of PBC. In this case, however, the number of new diagnoses (i.e., incidence) has remained stable for the past 20 years.

