### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - B** - Every diagnostic test involves a trade-off between sensitivity and specificity. Given the priorities of the clinicians, B would be the optimal cutoff point, as it virtually eliminates the false-negative rate; at this cutoff point, almost all patients with carcinoid tumor would test positive. Simultaneously, point B does not completely sacrifice specificity as half of the patients without carcinoid tumor would test negative, thereby limiting the number of false positives.

Image File: 122-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cffb1d52ad5e.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - Option A maximizes sensitivity (decreasing the false-negative rate to effectively zero). However, it also needlessly decreases the test's specificity, which the clinicians want to avoid. A different cutoff alternative would better preserve specificity.

**C - C** - Although C has improved sensitivity (lower false-negative rate) compared to the original cutoff point, it is not the optimal alternative, as the clinicians wish to minimize false negatives as much as possible (i.e., maximize sensitivity).

**D - D** - Option D would provide a higher specificity (lower false-positive rate) than the original cutoff point. However, since the clinicians would like to find a cutoff point with a lower false-negative rate (higher sensitivity) than the original, it is not acceptable.

**E - E** - Option E would provide a higher specificity (lower false-positive rate) than the original cutoff point. However, since the clinicians would like to find a cutoff point with a lower false-negative rate (higher sensitivity) than the original, it is not acceptable.

**F - F** - Option F would provide a higher specificity (making the false positive rate virtually zero) and lower sensitivity (epidemiology) than the original cutoff point. However, since the clinicians would like to find a cutoff point with a lower false-negative rate (higher sensitivity) than the original, it is not acceptable.

Image File: 122-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cffb0f46d38f.jpg

