### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Recall bias** - Recall bias is a major concern in case-control studies, as subjects with a particular outcome may unintentionally or intentionally recall past exposures in more detail than those without the outcome. This difference in recall may lead to misclassification of exposure and false conclusions about the relationship between exposure and outcome.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Non-response bias** - It is unlikely than non-response bias influenced the results of the study, as the response rate was high (94%).

**B - Interviewer bias** - This study used standardized questionnaires, making interviewer bias unlikely. There is no indication that there were any differences in the way that the questionnaires here were administered to the two groups.

**C - Latency period** - The latency period would be a concern if there were insufficient time between prenatal folic acid supplementation and ASD. However, most symptoms of ASD appear within the first 18 months of life. The study identified cases as those with symptoms within the first 4 years of life, a more than adequate period of time between the exposure and potential outcome.

**E - Survival bias** - It is unlikely that survival bias is at play here. While it is possible that the children in the study have more severe disease than those whose mothers opted not to participate, it is not likely that this is because the true population of those with ASD had different rates of survival or resolution of disease.

**F - Length-time bias** - Length-time bias takes place in screening studies, not case-control studies. It affects the measured survival of those with the outcome, not the exposures in those with the outcome compared to those without the outcome.

