### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - 70%** - The specificity (epidemiology) of a test is calculated with the following formula: true negatives/(true negatives + false positives). Of the children who do not have ASD (35 + 15), 35 tested negative (i.e., 35 true negative test results). Therefore, the specificity of this test is 35/(35 + 15), which is 35/50 or 70%.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - 30%** - This is the false positive rate of this test, which is calculated with the following formula: (1 – specificity). The specificity of this test is 35/(35 + 15), which is 0.7. Therefore, the false positive rate of this test is 1 – 0.7, which is 0.3 or 30%.

**B - 10%** - This is the false negative rate of this test, which is calculated with the following formula: (1 – sensitivity). The sensitivity of this test is 45/(45 + 5), which is 0.9. Therefore, the false negative rate of this test is 1 – 0.9, which is 0.1 or 10%.

**C - 88%** - This is the negative predictive value (NPV) of this test, which is calculated with the following formula: true negatives/(true negatives + false negatives). Of all the children who had a negative test (i.e., true negatives + false negatives: 35 + 5), only 35 do not have ASD. Therefore, the NPV of this test is 35/(35 + 5), which is 35/40 or ∼ 88%.

**E - 90%** - This is the sensitivity (epidemiology) of this test, which is calculated with the following formula: true positives/(true positives + false negatives). Of all the children who have ASD (45 + 5), 45 tested positive (i.e., 45 true positive test results). Therefore, the sensitivity of this test is 45/(45 + 5), which is 45/50 or 90%.

**F - 75%** - This is the positive predictive value (PPV) of this test, which is calculated with the following formula: true positives/(true positives + false positives). Of all the children who had a positive test (i.e., true positive + false positive: 45 + 15), only 45 have ASD. Therefore, the PPV of this test is 45/(45 + 15), which is 45/60 or 75%.

