### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - 120 people** - The annual incidence for ischemic stroke equals 60 per 2,000 people in this study. Based on the 1-year case fatality rate of 20%, 12 of those 60 new cases each year die. Thus, 12 out of 2,000 people die every year due to ischemic stroke. Therefore, the annual mortality rate for 20,000 people is 120 (12 per 2,000, multiplied by 10).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - 12 people** - This is the mortality rate for a population of 2,000 people, as given in the question (incidence of 60 cases per 2,000 people with a 20% fatality rate). The question is asking for a mortality rate in a sample population of 20,000 people.

**C - 400 people** - An annual mortality rate of 400 per 20,000 people is incorrect based on the annual incidence of 60 per 2,000 people and a 1-year case fatality rate of 20%. An annual mortality rate of 400 per 20,000 people occurs if one calculates 20% of 2,000 people (sample population of the study), which is incorrect as 20% of the 60 diseased people (those with an ischemic stroke) die, not all 2,000.

**D - 60 people** - An annual mortality rate of 60 per 20,000 people is incorrect based on the annual incidence of 60 per 2,000 people and a 1-year case fatality rate of 20%. This means that each year, 60 out of 2,000 healthy individuals sustain an ischemic stroke and 20% of these 60 people die. Thus, an annual mortality rate of 60 per 20,000 would only be correct in the setting of a 1-year case fatality rate of 10% instead of the 20% found in the study.

**E - 600 people** - This number represents the number of people who will suffer an ischemic stroke in a population of 20,000 people. Alternatively, this figure would also describe the mortality rate if ischemic stroke was found to be fatal in 100% of cases. However, the study indicates that the fatality rate is only 20% in 1 year so this value overestimates the number of deaths.

