### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - The data set follows a right-skewed distribution** - A data set that follows a right-skewed (positively skewed) distribution is clustered on the left side of the scale with a long tail on the right (positive direction of the scale), as seen here. Such a distribution has the following inequality between the measures of central tendency: mean > median > mode.

Image File: 129-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59e606c4abd18.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - The data set follows a normal distribution** - A data set following a normal distribution would form a symmetrical, bell-shaped curve with a peak located at the center of the distribution. In this case, however, data is clustered on the left side of the scale, and the data set forms an asymmetrical curve with a peak on the left side of the distribution.

**C - The median is greater than the mean** - The median is expected to be greater than the mean in data distribution that shows data points clustered on the right side of a histogram with a long tail to the left (negative direction of the scale), unlike what is seen in this histogram. For the data set shown here, the mean is greater than the median.

**D - The mean and mode are equal** - The mean and mode are expected to be equal in a data set that forms a symmetrical, bell-shaped curve with a peak located at the center of the distribution. In the histogram shown here, the mean is greater than the mode.

**E - The data set follows a bimodal distribution** - A data set following a bimodal distribution would form a histogram with two different peaks, which suggests the existence of two groups within the study population. In this case, however, the histogram shows only one peak on the left side of the data distribution.

**F - The data set follows a left-skewed distribution** - A data set following a left-skewed (negatively skewed) distribution would form an asymmetrical curve, which is seen here, but the data would cluster on the right rather than the left side of the scale, forming a long tail to the left (negative direction of the scale). The histogram shown here follows a different type of distribution.

