### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Cognitive-behavioral therapy** - This patient presents with OCD, for which first-line non-pharmacological management is cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT). CBT focuses on detecting and understanding negative or false thoughts and beliefs that lead to impairment of function as well as developing skills and strategies that help change the patient's behavior.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Supportive psychotherapy** - Supportive psychotherapy is a therapy approach that aims to improve self-esteem, resilience, and overall functioning in patients with anxiety disorders. Although individuals with OCD, such as this patient, also have anxiety disorders and would benefit from supportive psychotherapy, it is not a first-line treatment.

**B - Motivational interviewing** - Motivational interviewing is used in the treatment of substance use disorders and major depressive disorder. It is a non-confrontational approach that aims to promote a sense of optimism and self-efficacy in patients. Since this patient no longer consumes cannabis and has no signs of depression, there is currently no indication for motivational interviewing.

**D - Psychodynamic psychotherapy** - Psychodynamic psychotherapy is a treatment approach that focuses on analyzing an individual's past experiences to understand and treat current patterns or behavior and emotion. It is used primarily to treat patients with anxiety or panic disorder, but it is not the first-line treatment for OCD.

**E - Interpersonal therapy** - Interpersonal therapy is a treatment approach indicated in patients with major depressive disorder. It focuses on understanding problematic interpersonal relationships or life situations (e.g., recent move, change of jobs) that may either trigger or be caused by depression. While depressed individuals may also have intrusive negative thoughts (e.g., guilt, worthlessness), other key diagnostic features of depression (e.g., loss of interest) are not present in this patient.

**F - Group therapy** - Group therapy is a treatment approach, in which a group of patients with similar disorders can share their thoughts, emotions, and experiences in an empathetic and supportive environment. It is most commonly used in the management of personality disorders and substance use disorders. While group therapy can be beneficial in most mental disorders, it is not a first-line treatment for OCD.

