### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - The risks are equivalent, with an incidence rate of 1 case per 1000 person-years** - Absolute risk (AR) is equivalent to the incidence rate (i.e., the number of new cases per population at risk in a given time period). When comparing groups with different follow-up periods, person-time rather than just time should be used (also known as the person-time incidence rate). The AR here is calculated as incidence/time = (number of new cases of lymphoma/number of patients at risk)/follow-up period or actual time-at-risk in years. The AR in study 1 is (30 cases/3000 persons)/10 years = 3/3000 = 1 case per 1000 person-years. The AR in study 2 is (9 cases/300 persons)/30 years = 9/9000 = also 1 case per 1000 person years.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - The risk is higher in study 2, with a prevalence of 9 cases per 300 patients** - Prevalence does not allow conclusions to be drawn about absolute risk.

**B - The risk is higher in study 1, with an incidence rate of 30 cases per 10 person-years** - The absolute risk of developing lymphoma is not higher in study 1. It is crucial to consider the differences in observation periods (10 years versus 30 years) and sample size (3000 versus 300 patients) when comparing incidence and risk in these studies.

**C - The risks are equivalent, with a prevalence of 39 cases per 3300 persons** - Prevalence does not allow conclusions to be drawn about absolute risk.

**E - The risk is higher in study 1, with a prevalence of 30 cases per 3000 patients** - Prevalence does not allow conclusions to be drawn about absolute risk.

**F - The risk is higher in study 2, with a cumulative incidence of 9 cases per 300 patients** - The absolute risk of developing lymphoma is not higher in study 2. It is crucial to consider the differences in observation periods (10 years versus 30 years) and sample size (3000 versus 300 patients) when comparing incidence and risk in these studies.

