### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - 0.03** - 0.03 is the attributable risk due to clozapine. Attributable risk is defined as the difference in disease occurrence attributable to an exposure. It is calculated as the incidence in the exposed group (clozapine group, 30/300 = 0.1) minus the incidence in the unexposed group (haloperidol group, 21/300 = 0.07): 0.1 - 0.07 = 0.03. This means that the absolute risk increase of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus attributable to clozapine is 3%.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - 33.3** - 33.3 is the number needed to harm (NNH), meaning the number of people that have to be exposed to the risk factor clozapine before one person develops diabetes mellitus. The NNH is calculated as one divided by the attributable risk: 1/[(30/300) - (21/300)] = 1/(0.1-0.07) ≈ 33.3.

**B - 0.3** - 0.3 is the attributable risk percent (ARP), not the attributable risk. The ARP is defined as the proportion of cases attributable to exposure to a risk factor, which can be easily calculated based on the relative risk (RR): ARP = (RR - 1)/RR. Since the relative risk of developing diabetes among those exposed to clozapine compared to those in the haloperidol group (not exposed) is (30/300) / (21/300) ≈ 1.43 , the attributable risk percent is thus approximately (1.43-1)/1.43 = 0.30, or 30%. This means that approximately 30% of type 2 diabetes mellitus cases in the clozapine group can be attributed to exposure to clozapine.

**D - 1.48** - 1.48 is the odds ratio of developing diabetes among those exposed to clozapine (exposed) compared to those in the haloperidol group (unexposed), not the attributable risk. The odds ratio is calculated as the odds of disease in the exposed group divided by the odds of disease in the unexposed group. In this case: OR = (30/21) / (270/279) ≈ 1.48.

**E - 0.43** - Those exposed to clozapine have a 43% increased risk of developing diabetes, given that the relative risk of developing diabetes in the clozapine group compared to the haloperidol group is 1.43. This is not equivalent, however, to the attributable risk of an exposure, which is calculated as the difference in risks rather than from the ratio of one risk to another.

