### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Ecological study** - Because the researchers relied on data from city health agencies to assess the incidence of syphilis and per capita income, they planned an ecological study. An ecological study is an observational study that assesses aggregate data collected at the population level (e.g., population of different countries, cities, or socioeconomic groups) for exposures and/or outcomes. Ecological studies are well suited to the initial investigation of causal hypotheses. However, they do not allow conclusions related to individuals to be drawn (e.g., personal risk of developing syphilis in a patient with low-income).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Prospective cohort study** - A prospective cohort study starts with individuals who are either exposed or not exposed to a particular risk factor (here low income neighborhood). These two groups are then followed for a period of time to see if the disease of interest (here syphilis) develops. In this study, however, city-wide syphilis rates were gathered from several city health agencies at the population level; no individual cases were assessed.

**B - Retrospective cohort study** - A retrospective cohort study starts with individuals who are either exposed or not exposed to a particular risk factor (low income neighborhood). A review of medical records of patients in both groups is then conducted to determine if the disease of interest (here syphilis) has developed. In this study, however, city-wide syphilis rates were gathered from several city health agencies at the population level; no individual cases were assessed.

**C - Case-control study** - Case-control studies are helpful for determining the presence of risk factors for (rare) diseases. They involve two groups: one with the disease of interest (case group: syphilis), and one without the disease (control group: no syphilis). The risk of exposure to a risk factor of interest (e.g., low income neighborhood) is then determined. Here, the research group collected data at the population level (city by city) rather than looking at individual cases of exposure.

**D - Single-blind clinical trial** - In a single-blind clinical trial, only researchers know who is a control or treatment candidate. This study was of an observational nature, however, and did not involve administration or testing of a treatment.

**F - Case series** - A case series is a quantitative compilation of similar individual cases. This research group engaged in a systemic study of syphilis incidence city by city.

**G - Double-blind clinical trial** - In a double-blind clinical trial, neither the researcher nor the study participants know who is a control or treatment candidate. This study was of an observational nature, however, and did not involve administration or testing of a treatment.

**H - Cross-sectional study** - A cross-sectional study determines the prevalence of variables of interest simultaneously, at a specific point in time (snapshot study). Here, the investigators analyzed the incidence city by city, which is characteristic of a different type of study design.

**I - Meta-analysis** - In a meta-analysis, data from multiple studies is pooled to increase statistical power and to identify discrepancies between and/or common effects among studies. Here, the research group conducted an individual study.

