### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Smoking cessation** - Smoking cessation will confer the greatest protection against all-cause mortality for this patient. Smoking is the single greatest preventable cause of death worldwide, regardless of age at quitting or the number of previous pack years.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increased physical activity** - Increased physical activity provides a protective effect against cardiovascular and all-cause mortality with a dose-response relationship. However, the magnitude of this protection for all-cause mortality is less than the magnitude of protection from another behavioral modification that this patient could make.

**B - Weight loss** - Weight loss would be beneficial in this patient who meets the criteria for World Health Organization Class I obesity (BMI > 30 kg/m2). However, for patients in this BMI category, the all-cause mortality benefits of weight loss are less than the magnitude of protection from another behavioral modification that this patient could make.

**C - Lipid-lowering therapy** - Lipid-lowering therapy, most commonly achieved with the use of statins, provides a protective effect against cardiovascular and all-cause mortality with a dose-response relationship. Even with high dose statin therapy, the all-cause mortality risk reduction is less than the magnitude of protection from another behavioral modification that this patient could make.

**D - Antidiabetic medication** - Antidiabetic medication would be helpful in this patient who meets diagnostic criteria for type 2 diabetes mellitus given his hemoglobin A1C > 6.5%. Glycemic control can prevent some adverse events such as limb amputation or progression of diabetic nephropathy and diabetic retinopathy. However, there is little evidence to suggest that these interventions lead to a significant reduction of all-cause mortality.

**E - Reduced alcohol intake** - Reduced alcohol intake will likely enhance this patient's overall health. His current alcohol intake is about 40 grams per day. Although the exact effect of reduced alcohol intake on all-cause mortality is still actively debated, most experts agree that if a benefit exists, it is small.

**F - Blood pressure reduction** - Blood pressure reduction can reduce the risk of all-cause mortality and cardiovascular disease in this patient. Tight blood pressure control (< 130/90 mm Hg) is the single most important intervention to reduce the risk of stroke. However, the magnitude of this protection for all-cause mortality is less than the magnitude of protection from another behavioral modification that this patient could make.

