### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - The 99% confidence interval includes the null hypothesis.** - The null hypothesis is rejected if the observed result (RR = 1.23 in this case) is so different from the expected result under the null hypothesis (RR = 1.0 in this case) that the difference becomes statistically significant, i.e., the observed value lies outside the chosen CI. Most epidemiological studies use a p-value of < 0.05 as the standard for statistical significance, as seen here, but investigators can also choose a different threshold. A 95% CI that does not include the null hypothesis corresponds to a p-value of 0.05 and a 99% CI that does not include the null hypothesis corresponds to a p-value of 0.01. Since the p-value for the relative risk in this case is 0.03, a 99% CI includes the null hypothesis relative risk value of 1.0. If the p-value were < 0.01, then the 99% CI would not include the null hypothesis relative risk value of 1.0.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - The chance of bias in favor of the alternative hypothesis is 3%.** - The p-value is a measure of random error, not systematic error (i.e., bias).

**C - The p-value represents the likelihood of seeing an increased risk of placenta accreta in women with prior cesarean birth, assuming the alternative hypothesis is true.** - The p-value is the probability of finding the observed or a more extreme result if the null hypothesis were true. The p-value is calculated with statistical tests and then compared with the acceptable type 1 error rate (α) that was determined by investigators before the study commenced. The given statement is incorrect because it assumes a priori that the alternative hypothesis (in this case, an increased risk of placenta accreta in women with prior cesarean birth), rather than the null hypothesis (RR = 1.0), is true.

**D - There is a 23% probability of seeing the reported risk by chance alone.** - The relative risk ratio expresses the strength of association between the exposure (prior cesarean birth) and the outcome of interest (placenta accreta), which, in this case, is 1.23. The relative risk value has no bearing on the probability of finding these results by chance alone, that probability is the p-value.

**E - There is a 3% probability that the null hypothesis is true.** - The p-value is the probability of finding the observed or a more extreme result if the null hypothesis were true. In this case, if there was no association between prior cesarean birth and placenta accreta (RR = 1.0) and the study was repeated 100 times, a relative risk of ≥ 1.23 would only be found 3 times (i.e., 3% of the time). However, this is not the equivalent of stating that there is a 3% probability that the null hypothesis is true. Conversely, it is also not possible to state that there is a 97% probability that the alternative hypothesis is false. A hypothesis is either true or not true, i.e., the probability that the null or alternative hypothesis is true can only be either 1 (true) or 0 (not true).

