### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - B** - This graph represents a diagnostic test with sensitivity and specificity between 50% and 100%, corresponding to the described diagnostic test and an AUC > 0.5. A test with an AUC > 0.5 has diagnostic value because it can differentiate between individuals with and without disease with better accuracy than a test in which the result is randomly determined with a 50% chance for each outcome (e.g., a coin flip). The higher the AUC, the more accurate the test; the ideal diagnostic test has an AUC of 1.

Image File: 138-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5efc77939fb57.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - This graph, which shows an ROC curve close to the left upper corner and an AUC almost equal to 1, represents the ideal diagnostic test with almost 100% sensitivity and specificity. In the test described above, with 65% sensitivity and 70% specificity, the ROC curve is not expected to be that close to the left upper corner.

**C - C** - This graph represents a diagnostic test that has an FP rate equal to the TP rate and an AUC of 0.5, indicating that the test performs just as well as a test in which the result is randomly determined with a 50% chance for each outcome (e.g., a coin flip). A test that detects the same number of true-positive and false-positive cases has no predictive diagnostic value.

**D - D** - This graph represents a diagnostic test that has an FP rate higher than the TP rate and an AUC < 0.5, indicating that the test performs worse than a test in which the result is randomly determined with a 50% chance for each outcome (e.g., a coin flip). Such a curve for a test usually indicates a mistake in plotting the data for the ROC.

**E - E** - This graph represents a diagnostic test that has an FP rate of almost 100%, a TP rate of almost 0%, and an AUC of 0, meaning that the test has no sensitivity or specificity for the diagnosis of the condition.

