### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Persistent depressive disorder** - This patient presents with a depressed mood, difficulty sleeping, and poor concentration, which is causing psychosocial impairment. These symptoms have been present for more days than not for the past 4 years in the absence of substance use, and the patient was not asymptomatic for > 2 consecutive months during this time. Accordingly, he meets the criteria for persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia). He would likely benefit from treatment with an SSRI and/or psychotherapy.

Image File: 14-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_612351bfa1724.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Major depressive disorder** - Although this patient has been depressed for > 2 weeks, he only presents with four of the symptoms listed in the DSM-V criteria for major depressive disorder (depressed mood, anhedonia, sleep disturbances, and poor concentration). Diagnosis of major depressive disorder requires the presence of ≥ 5 criterion A symptoms (one of which must be anhedonia or depressed mood) as well as clinically significant distress or impaired functioning in important areas of life (e.g., work).

**B - Bipolar affective disorder** - Depressive episodes in bipolar disorder can present with sadness, anhedonia, sleep disturbances, and poor concentration, as seen in this patient. However, the diagnosis of bipolar disorder requires the presence of at least one manic episode or hypomanic episode, which this patient has not had.

**C - Cyclothymic disorder** - Depressive symptoms in cyclothymic disorder can present with sadness, anhedonia, sleep disturbances, and poor concentration, as seen in this patient. Diagnostic criteria for cyclothymic disorder include mood swings with distinct periods of depressive symptoms and distinct periods of manic or hypomanic symptoms for ≥ 2 years (or ≥ 1 year in the case of children), as well as symptom-free periods that do not exceed 2 months. Although this patient fulfills the second criterion, he lacks a history of distinct, alternating periods of depression and mania/hypomania. In addition, the diagnosis requires that the patient's condition cannot be better explained by bipolar disorder, major depressive episode, or hypomanic episode/manic episode.

**E - Adjustment disorder with depressed mood** - Adjustment disorder with depressed mood can manifest with sadness, anhedonia, sleep disturbances, and poor concentration, all of which are seen in this patient. However, the diagnosis requires the development of depressive symptoms within 3 months of a clear psychosocial stressor and resolution of symptoms within 6 months after termination of the stressor. This patient has had symptoms for the past 4 years, and there is no evidence to suggest that his mood is a reaction to a recent stressor.

