### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Low external validity** - External validity refers to whether data from a study's sample can be applied to a real-world population outside of the study's confines. In this case, the results of a study conducted in an upper middle-class Caucasian sample may not be generalizable to a low-income African American/Latino sample given marked differences in the research study's target demographics in comparison to the biopsychosocial characteristics of the population surrounding the student clinic.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Confounding bias** - There is no information presented that would support confounding bias, i.e., the existence of a third variable affecting both cognitive impairment and UTI hospitalization risk, thus providing an alternative explanation for the observed relationship between the two variables.

**B - Low internal validity** - Internal validity refers to how well a study was conducted and how correct are a study's inferences about a phenomena being evaluated for the population studied. Often, internal validity refers to whether researchers have been successful in controlling for the effects of possible confounding variables in a relationship being investigated. There is no evidence in the question stem about flaws in study design.

**C - Poor reliability** - Reliability refers to similar results being produced under consistent conditions. If the relationship described in this question stem between cognitive impairment and UTI hospitalization risk were not replicable in the same upper Middle class population in the Netherlands, one could posit that the study's results were unreliable. However, there is no evidence of this being the case.

**D - Lack of precision** - The definition of precision in statistics refers to how close repeated measures are to each other. There is no evidence of high variance (statistics) and/or standard deviations that may hint at a lack of precision in a study being conducted.

**F - Selection bias** - Selection bias occurs if study subjects are inappropriately selected or a large number of patients is lost to follow-up. There is no evidence that the European study investigating the association between cognitive impairment and UTI hospitalization risk recruited an inappropriate sample for their outcome of interest in their target population.

