### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Ejection fraction influences both probability of receiving TAVR and risk of death** - For ejection fraction to be a confounder, it must be related to both the exposure (here: having undergone TAVR) and the outcome (here: risk of death). In this example, the TAVR group likely had more patients with lower ejection fraction, who were at increased risk of death, than the SAVR group. In the crude analysis, this unmeasured variable (ejection fraction) makes it appear as if there was a relationship between TAVR and risk of death, when in reality the association disappears once you stratify patients by their ejection fraction.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - The prevalence of low ejection fraction is higher in the TAVR group** - Differences in the prevalence of low ejection fraction between the TAVR and SAVR groups is not sufficient for ejection fraction to be considered a confounder — additional criteria must be met. By itself, differences in the prevalence of low ejection fraction between the two groups would indicate selection bias or a failure of randomization.

**B - Low ejection fraction causes increased risk of death and decreased likelihood of receiving TAVR** - If low ejection fraction caused an increased risk of death and decreased likelihood of receiving TAVR, crude analysis would have shown that patients who received TAVR had lower (rather than higher) risk of death at the end the follow-up period. Furthermore, causality cannot be inferred from this study and is not a prerequisite of a variable to qualify as a confounder.

**C - The increase in risk of death conferred by TAVR is higher in patients with low ejection fraction** - This is a description of effect modification, a scenario in which having a low ejection fraction modifies (increases) the association between TAVR and risk of death. However, the researchers found no association between TAVR and higher risk of death once patients were stratified by ejection fraction.

**D - TAVR correlates with increased risk of death, but the magnitude of effect differs based on ejection fraction** - This is a description of effect modification, a scenario in which having a low ejection fraction modifies (increases) the association between TAVR and risk of death. However, the researchers found no association between TAVR and higher risk of death once patients were stratified by ejection fraction.

**F - Patients who receive TAVR and SAVR have similar ejection fractions** - If patients who receive TAVR and SAVR had similar ejection fractions, then ejection fraction would not meet criteria for being a confounder variable.

