### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - 90/100** - The sensitivity (epidemiology) of this test is calculated using the formula: true positives/(true positives + false negatives). Of all the participants who were confirmed to have tuberculosis by culture (90 + 10), the test was positive in 90 (i.e., 90 true positive results). Therefore, the sensitivity of this test is 90/100.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - 194/200** - This is the specificity of this test, which is calculated using the formula: true negatives/(true negatives + false positives). Of all the participants who do not have tuberculosis (6 + 194), the test was negative in 194 (i.e., 194 true negative results). Therefore, the specificity of this test is 194/200.

**C - 90/96** - This is the positive predictive value (PPV) of this test, which is calculated using the formula: true positives/(true positives + false positives). Of all the participants who tested positive (i.e., 90 + 6), 90 have confirmed tuberculosis. Therefore, the PPV of this test is 90/96.

**D - 100/300** - This is the prevalence of tuberculosis in the cohort of all participants in this study. Prevalence is calculated using the formula: total number of cases/total population at a given point in time. In this study with 300 participants, 100 have confirmed tuberculosis. Therefore, the prevalence of tuberculosis in this cohort is 100/300.

**E - 194/204** - This is the negative predictive value (NPV) of this test, which is calculated using the formula: true negatives/(true negatives + false negatives). Of all the participants who tested negative (i.e., 194 + 10), 194 do not have tuberculosis. Therefore, the NPV of this test is 194/204.

