### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Valproic acid and quetiapine** - Combination therapy of a mood stabilizer and an antipsychotic, such as valproic acid and quetiapine, respectively, is a first-line therapy for maintenance treatment of refractory or severe bipolar disorder. This actively manic patient with three hospitalizations within the last year has been refractory to monotherapy with the mood stabilizer lithium, and requires additional pharmaceutical management. In this case, lithium should be switched to a different mood stabilizer (i.e., valproic acid) as his labs indicate renal failure, a contraindication to lithium use. Further contraindications to lithium include severe dehydration, severe hyponatremia, and significant cardiovascular disease.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Carbamazepine only** - Carbamazepine by itself would probably not be a sufficient treatment for this patient. While this antiepileptic agent usually can be used alternatively to lithium for maintenance therapy in bipolar disorder, this patient is refractory to monotherapy with lithium and now needs a more intensive therapy for long-term management.

**B - Clozapine only** - Clozapine is not indicated for the management of bipolar disorder. It is typically used for refractory schizophrenia.

**C - Lithium and valproic acid** - While lithium and valproic acid can be given concurrently in patients with bipolar disorder, this combination is not indicated in this patient, as his renal failure is a contraindication for continued use of lithium.

**E - Lithium and olanzapine** - A combination of lithium and olanzapine would not be appropriate for this patient. While a combination therapy of a mood stabilizer and an antipsychotic is first-line therapy for the maintenance treatment of refractory or severe bipolar episodes, this patient's renal failure is a contraindication for continued use of lithium.

