### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Qualitative study** - Qualitative studies involve the collection and analysis of nonnumerical data obtained by certain methods, such as observations, interviews, and questionnaires with open-ended questions, that aim to describe and provide a deeper understanding of concepts and phenomena. The collected data is usually organized, reviewed, and explored for patterns, from which hypotheses or theories can be inductively developed. Common qualitative research approaches include grounded theory, ethnography, phenomenology, action research, and case studies. As opposed to quantitative research, qualitative research does not run statistical analysis of the collected data nor test hypotheses.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ecological study** - Ecological studies are observational descriptive studies that assess the prevalence of an exposure and/or outcome on a population or group level. These studies can be conducted with or without statistical analysis. The study in this scenario gathers data on an individual level rather than on a group level, so the data is not representative of a population.

**B - Case-control study** - Case-control studies are observational analytical studies that use statistical analysis, a quantitative research design. These studies retrospectively compare the exposure status (e.g., a risk factor) of individuals (i.e., cases) with a certain outcome (e.g., a disease) to the exposure status of a group of similar individuals without the outcome (i.e., controls). Although the physicians were split into subgroups in this scenario, the results of the groups were not compared and no statistical analysis was performed.

**D - Cohort study** - Cohort studies are observational, analytical studies that use statistical analysis, a quantitative research design. In these studies, two groups, one with a certain exposure (e.g., a risk factor) and one without, are monitored over time to determine whether the exposure is associated with a certain outcome (e.g., a disease). No statistical analysis was performed in this scenario, and the physicians were not observed over time.

**E - Randomized controlled study** - Randomized controlled studies are experimental studies that use statistical analysis to determine the possible effect of a specific intervention on a given population (i.e., a quantitative research design). In these studies, participants are randomly allocated as either treatment or control subjects. Although the physicians in this scenario are randomly split into subgroups, the results of the groups are not compared and the data is not statistically analyzed.

