### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - 0.85** - The power of the proposed study refers to the probability of correctly rejecting the null hypothesis. By convention, most studies aim to achieve 80% statistical power. The statistical power can be calculated as follows: Power = 1 - β, where β is the probability of a type 2 error. In this question, β is 15%. Therefore, the power of this study would be 0.85 (Power = 1 - 0.15 = 0.85 or 85%).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - 0.15** - This value represents the probability of a type 2 error (β). In this study, it is assumed to be 15%. Although β can be used to calculate the statistical power of a study, it does not equate to it.

**C - 0.10** - This value represents the significance level (α), which is the probability of rejecting the null hypothesis when it is true. This is also the probability of a type 1 error. A study is considered statistically significant if the p-value is less than the prespecified alpha (α). The significance level, however, is not equivalent to statistical power.

**D - 0.90** - This value represents the confidence level of the study. Confidence level = 1 - α, where α is the significance level. The significance level of this study is set at 10%. Therefore, the confidence level would be 90%, meaning that there is 90% confidence that the range of values in the study (confidence interval) contains the true sample measurement. The confidence level is not equivalent to statistical power.

**E - 0.05** - This value represents the significance level (α) used for the majority of medical and epidemiological studies. The α for this study was prespecified as 0.10. Additionally, the significance level of a study is not equivalent to the statistical power of that study.

