### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Decrease the type II error rate** - Decreasing the type II error rate (symbolized as β) reduces the chance of accepting a false null hypothesis and rejecting a viable alternative hypothesis. Reducing β can be achieved by increasing the sample size in the study or by making more precise measurements of the outcome of interest. Either of these two actions will directly increase the statistical power. In mathematical terms, power = 1 – β so it easily follows that reducing β will lead to increased statistical power.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Decrease alpha** - Decreasing α (otherwise known as the type I error rate) is an aspect of experiment design that is intended to offset the risk of concluding that an effect or difference exists when there is, in fact, no effect or difference. The α is set by the researcher, with the most traditional value being 0.05. These researchers also used 0.05 (i.e., 5%) as the significance threshold. Changing this value will have no direct effect on the statistical power of the experiment.

**B - Decrease the sample size** - Decreasing the sample size will cause a reduction in statistical power. A smaller sample is more subject to the effects of random chance, so the probability of committing a type II error will necessarily increase in this condition.

**D - Increase beta** - Beta, or the probability of a type II error, is the complement of power [power = 1 – β]. Increasing β would cause a decrease in statistical power, the opposite of the desired effect.

**E - Increase the type I error rate** - Increasing the type I error rate (also known as alpha), will have no direct effect on the statistical power. Alpha is the significance level that is chosen by the researcher. In this experiment, it has been set at 0.05 (i.e., 5%), which is the most common threshold for this value.

