### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Greater likelihood that an individual with a negative test will truly not have Lyme disease** - The likelihood that an individual with a negative test result truly does not have the disease (i.e., that it is a true negative) is the negative predictive value (NPV). The NPV of a diagnostic test changes depending on the population in which the test is used, i.e. it is inversely affected by the disease prevalence so that the NPV increases as prevalence decreases. In this case, performing the assay for Lyme disease in Southern California (low prevalence) instead of in Maine (high prevalence), will result in an increased NPV (i.e., the likelihood of true negatives will increase).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Decrease negative likelihood ratio of the Lyme disease assay** - The negative likelihood ratio is calculated from the sensitivity and specificity, which are intrinsic properties of a diagnostic test that are not affected by disease prevalence. Therefore, the negative likelihood ratio of the assay will not change when it is tested in Southern California instead of Maine.

**B - Lower likelihood that a patient without Lyme disease truly has a negative test** - The likelihood that a patient without the disease will have a negative test result is the specificity. Specificity is an intrinsic characteristic of the test that is not affected by disease prevalence.

**C - Greater likelihood that an individual with a positive test will truly have Lyme disease** - The likelihood that an individual with a positive test truly does have the disease is the positive predictive value (PPV). The PPV increases when a diagnostic test is used in a population with higher prevalence of disease (i.e., the disease is more common), but in this case, the assay was tested in a population with a lower prevalence of disease (Southern California) compared to the first population in which it was tested (Maine). Consequently, the PPV of the assay will be lower in Southern California than in Maine (i.e., the likelihood of true positives will decrease).

**D - Decreased positive likelihood ratio of the Lyme disease assay** - The positive likelihood ratio is calculated from the sensitivity (epidemiology) and specificity, which are intrinsic properties of a diagnostic test that are not affected by disease prevalence. Therefore, the positive likelihood ratio of the assay will not change when it is tested in Southern California instead of Maine.

**E - Lower likelihood that a patient with Lyme disease will truly have a positive test** - The likelihood that a patient with a disease will have a positive test result is the sensitivity (epidemiology). Sensitivity is an intrinsic characteristic of the test that is not affected by disease prevalence.

