### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Dissociative amnesia with dissociative fugue** - The main finding in this patient is her inability to recall autobiographical information, which occurred after a stressful event at work. Since there is no other diagnosis that could better explain these symptoms (e.g., substance use disorder, pre-existing psychiatric disorders), a diagnosis of dissociative amnesia is most likely. Since this patient's episode of dissociative amnesia involved travels, the specifier “dissociative fugue” applies.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Depersonalization disorder** - Depersonalization disorder does not usually cause gaps in memory. Instead, it is characterized by feeling detached with respect to one's own thoughts, feelings, body, and actions, which is not the case in this patient.

**B - Early-onset dementia** - Memory impairment is the most prominent finding in major neurocognitive disorder (dementia). However, early-onset dementia in a 28-year-old patient is extremely unlikely, as early-onset dementia mostly affects people in the fifth and sixth decade of life. In addition, this patient's memory loss and impairment of spatial-temporal awareness seems to be only of episodic character and the patient is lacking other typical findings of major neurocognitive disorder, such as speech difficulty and difficulty with reasoning.

**C - Dissociative identity disorder** - Dissociative identity disorder can result in the inability to recall personal information or events of daily life. Wandering or purposeful travel of which the patient has no recollection is a possible feature of dissociative identity disorder that is seen in this patient. The diagnosis of dissociative identity disorder requires the presence of at least two distinct personality states that cause identity disruption and dominate at different times. As there are no signs of this in this patient at this point, dissociative personality disorder would not be the right diagnosis.

**D - Korsakoff syndrome** - Korsakoff syndrome causes selective amnesia, which can be both anterograde and retrograde. However, Korsakoff syndrome develops as a consequence of long-term thiamine deficiency, which typically occurs in individuals with alcohol use disorder. Even though this patient does consume alcohol on a regular basis, her examination shows no signs of thiamine deficiency, e.g., ataxia, nystagmus, apathy, indifference, and confabulation.

**F - Delirium** - Delirium is an acute disorder that can also cause deficits in memory and confusion. Delirium can be triggered by many factors, including psychoactive drugs, such as citalopram, which this patient had been taking. However, the patient is lacking all other typical findings of delirium, such as illusions, hallucinations, reversal of sleep-wake cycle.

