### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Perform colonoscopy** - The USPSTF recommends screening all asymptomatic adults between 45 and 75 years of age for colorectal cancer (the previously recommended age to start screening was 50 years). Screening strategies include annual fecal immunochemical testing, flexible sigmoidoscopy or CT colonography every 5 years, and colonoscopy screening every 10 years. Over 90% of cases of colorectal cancer occur in adults ≥ 45 years of age, and there is significant evidence that early detection decreases mortality.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform DEXA scan** - The USPSTF recommends screening women ≥ 65 years of age for osteoporosis using bone measurement testing (e.g., DEXA scan or quantitative ultrasonography). Women < 65 years of age should be screened if they have a moderately increased risk for osteoporosis according to clinical tools, such as the Fracture Risk Assessment Tool. This patient does not have significant risk factors for osteoporosis (e.g., personal or parental history of hip fracture, chronic glucocorticoid use, significant alcohol consumption, current smoking).

**C - Perform 24-hour ECG** - The USPSTF has concluded that routine ECG screenings do not decrease the risk of myocardial infarction or stroke. Current evidence regarding routine ECG screening for atrial fibrillation is also insufficient to recommend this test.

**D - Measure serum TSH concentration** - The USPSTF has concluded that there is insufficient evidence to support routine thyroid function screening in nonpregnant patients. Pregnancy (particularly during the first trimester) can interfere with normal circulating levels of TSH. Women who are planning pregnancy and are at increased risk for thyroid disorders (e.g., family history of autoimmune thyroid disease, presence of a goiter) can be screened, but universal screening is not generally recommended.

**E - Perform BRCA gene test** - The USPSTF recommends genetic counseling and potential genetic testing for BRCA mutations for women who have a positive result on a familial risk assessment tool that assesses risk for BRCA-related cancers (e.g., breast, ovarian, tubal, and peritoneal cancer). This patient has no such family history.

**F - Perform abdominal ultrasonography** - The USPSTF recommends screening for abdominal aortic aneurysms with abdominal ultrasonography in men between 65 and 75 years of age who have ever smoked. They have concluded that there is insufficient evidence to recommend similar screening in women who have ever smoked.

