### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Stratification** - Stratification, the division of a population into subpopulations based on a particular characteristic, would address concerns regarding the validity of this study by mitigating susceptibility to confounding bias. For example, in this study, higher socioeconomic status could be associated with a higher consumption of vegetables and therefore a lower risk of hyperlipidemia and greater exercise tolerance. The effect of confounding can be reduced by stratifying subjects by their socioeconomic status.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Blinding** - Blinding refers to the practice of not revealing to patients whether they are a control or treatment candidate (e.g., receiving a placebo or not). Blinding is used in cohort studies (e.g., double-blind studies) to decrease the likelihood of bias. This practice does not decrease confounding bias.

**B - Crossover** - In a crossover study design, participants receive all interventions but at different times and/or in a different sequence, allowing them to act as their own study control. Crossover designs can help mitigate the effect of confounders in participant selection. However, additional analysis cannot convert the described prospective cohort study into a crossover study, which is an entirely different study design. Furthermore, a crossover design would not be appropriate to assess the relationship between childhood diet and cardiovascular disease in adulthood because this relationship does not involve any intervention and the observation period of 20 years would be impractical for this study design.

**C - Matching** - Matching is the process of grouping study participants based on possible or known confounding variables (e.g., gender). This process, which occurs during the design phase of a study to ensure study and control groups have similar baseline characteristics, could have improved this study's validity. However, this study has already been completed, and matching cannot be retrospectively applied to data that has already been collected.

**E - Randomization** - Randomization occurs when study participants are assigned to different groups (e.g., to treatment and control groups) by chance. Randomization, a central component of clinical trials, ensures that the sample group is representative of the population being studied and can control for both known and unknown confounders. However, randomization is a tactic that is used in randomized controlled trials, not in cohort studies, which are a type of observational study.

