### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Decreased negative predictive value** - The test will have a lower negative predictive value (NPV) when used on the 23-year-old patient than when used on the 17-year-old patient. Unlike sensitivity (epidemiology) and specificity, which are properties intrinsic to the screening test, negative and positive predictive value depend on the test subject's pretest probability of disease. Given her sexual history (previous sexually transmitted infections, unprotected sexual intercourse with a partner who might have HIV), the 23-year-old patient has a higher pretest probability, which will decrease the NPV of the test.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increased sensitivity** - Sensitivity (epidemiology) is an intrinsic property of the screening test and does not vary based on test subjects' pretest probability of disease.

**B - Increased validity** - Validity is a term that refers to the degree of sensitivity (epidemiology) and specificity of a given test. These are intrinsic properties of the test that would not be affected by the subjects' pretest probability of disease.

**C - Increased specificity** - Specificity is an intrinsic property of the screening test and does not vary based on test subjects' pretest probability of disease.

**D - Decreased positive predictive value** - The positive predictive value is the probability of truly having a disease after testing positive. Since the 23-year-old patient has a higher pretest probability of disease, the positive predictive value would be increased, not decreased.

