### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia** - Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia is an indolent type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma that is caused by abnormal production of IgM antibodies by monoclonal plasma cells. It usually presents in old age with impaired platelet function (nosebleeds), anemia (Hb < 13.5 g/dL), and mild thrombocytopenia, progressive neuropathy (history of pain and numbness in the feet), and hyperviscosity syndrome (vision and hearing loss). Lymph node enlargement is possible. Additionally, increased ESR, LDH, and ALP can be seen. Serum protein electrophoresis demonstrating a dense, monoclonal IgM band is essential for diagnosis. Bone marrow biopsy often shows characteristic Dutcher bodies. Treatment includes administration of CD20 antibodies (e.g., rituximab) and plasmapheresis in case of hyperviscosity syndrome.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Chronic lymphocytic leukemia** - Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) primarily occurs in older patients (> 70 years) and could explain this patient's fatigue, weight loss, generalized painless lymphadenopathy, anemia (Hb < 11 g/dL), thrombocytopenia (< 100,000/μL), hyperviscosity syndrome (vision and hearing loss), and hepatomegaly. However, lymphocytosis would be present (here: normal WBC count). Also, this patient is missing a history of repeated infections (e.g., necrotic erysipelas, candidiasis, and/or herpes zoster), and CLL rather presents with a polyclonal gammopathy (i.e., broad-based peak representing a polyclonal increase in immunoglobulins) than a monoclonal gammopathy (i.e., single spike representing an increase in a single class of immunoglobulins).

**B - Hairy cell leukemia** - Hairy cell leukemia also affects middle-aged men and causes anemia (fatigue, weakness) and thrombocytopenia (abnormal bleeding). However, B symptoms and lymphadenopathy are typically absent. Also, usually massive splenomegaly dominates, recurrent infections occur (due to leukopenia), and the B cells do not lead to monoclonal protein production, as seen in this patient's serum electrophoresis.

Image File: 167-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59a463b101a30.jpg

**C - Multiple myeloma** - Multiple myeloma (MM) also presents with weight loss, fatigue, hyperviscosity syndrome (vision and hearing loss), and bleeding along with a monoclonal spike on electrophoresis in older individuals (50–70 years of age). However, MM usually presents with excess production of IgG or IgA, not IgM. In addition, the CRAB symptoms (hypercalcemia, renal disease, anemia, and bone lesions) are classically present to varying degrees. This patient is normocalcemic with adequate renal function and has not reported any bone pain.

Image File: 167-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ab0d4d12f43.jpg

**E - Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance** - This patient's age (> 45 years old) and abnormal production of monoclonal immunoglobulins are consistent with MGUS. However, as MGUS is not, by definition, associated with any accompanying symptoms, his presentation of abnormal bleeding, distal neuropathy (pain and numbness in his feet), and hyperviscosity syndrome (vision and hearing loss) rule out this diagnosis. Moreover, there is no anemia in MGUS.

**F - Mantle cell lymphoma** - Mantle cell lymphoma also affects older males (65–70 years) and causes painless, generalized lymphadenopathy, hepatomegaly, increased LDH, and constitutional symptoms (i.e., fatigue and weight loss). Typically, there is also extensive splenomegaly and gastrointestinal discomfort and pain due to stomach and colon involvement. Simultaneous vision and hearing changes would be unusual with mantle cell lymphoma, though, and monoclonal proliferations are very rare. Although this condition cannot be ruled out completely in this case, another option is much more likely.

