### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Chemotherapy** - Combination chemotherapy with the ABVD regimen (adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine) is the treatment of choice for patients with HL. According to the Lugano classification, this patient has stage III disease, which is defined by the involvement of lymph node regions on both sides of the diaphragm (i.e., neck, axillae, and abdominal aorta) without the involvement of extralymphatic organs. While radiation therapy is part of the standard treatment of early-stage HL (stages I-II), it is only recommended in certain patients with advanced disease (stages III-IV), such as patients with bulky disease and/or incomplete response to chemotherapy.

Image File: 168-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93a2b6be.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - MRI of the brain** - Performing an MRI of the brain is indicated in patients with HL and neurologic findings that indicate involvement of the CNS (e.g., sensory disturbances, muscle weakness, headache, confusion). This patient has no signs or symptoms suggestive of CNS involvement.

**C - Bone marrow aspiration** - Bone marrow aspiration is rarely required in the initial evaluation of patients with HL. A PET-CT scan can usually detect bone marrow involvement with high sensitivity, so an invasive procedure is not necessary.

**D - Immunotherapy** - Cancer immunotherapy (e.g., with rituximab) is part of the treatment of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). This patient has Hodgkin lymphoma, for which there is no established immunotherapy.

**E - Lymph node dissection** - Lymph node dissection is part of the surgical treatment of several types of malignancies (e.g., axillary lymph node dissection for breast cancer, radical neck dissection for head and neck cancer). However, lymph node dissection is generally not recommended in patients with HL.

