### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Scheduled short-acting opioid administration** - Regardless of addiction history, acute pain management should follow the WHO analgesic ladder. This patient with a history of opioid use disorder who is currently on methadone maintenance therapy (MMT) presents with severe pain due to his ulnar fracture, which requires an opioid analgesic for adequate relief. The best management in patients on MMT who require opioid analgesic is a scheduled short-acting opioid administration such as morphine given every 3–4 hours in addition to methadone.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Urine toxicology screening** - Urine toxicology screen is used to test for certain drugs and/or its metabolites. Since methadone and its metabolite EDDP (2-ethylidene-1,5-dimethyl-3,3-diphenylpyrrolidine) are excreted in urine, urine toxicology screen can be used to assess the compliance of patients on methadone maintenance therapy (MMT). Urine toxicology screen for this patient on MMT should be considered to monitor his compliance with the treatment, but it is not the most urgent issue at this point.

**B - Increase of outpatient methadone regimen** - Methadone, a synthetic opioid agonist, is used in opioid maintenance therapy to treat opioid use disorder. Its duration of action as an analgesic (4–8 hours) is considerably shorter than its half-life and would, therefore, not provide adequate analgesic effect at the regular daily dose that is used in patients on methadone maintenance therapy. On the other hand, because of its long half-life, increasing the outpatient methadone regimen increases the risk of drug accumulation and delayed toxicity. This patient on methadone maintenance therapy should continue to take his regular daily dose in addition to taking another medication that can adequately control his pain.

**C - Adherence to high-potency NSAID regimen** - NSAIDs are effective at relieving mild or moderate pain. However, severe pain cannot be adequately relieved by NSAIDs alone. Therefore, another kind of analgesic is warranted in this patient.

**D - Psychiatric evaluation for drug-seeking behavior** - Individuals with addictive disorders often present to the emergency department in an effort to obtain certain drugs, and reporting 10 out of 10 pain that is incompatible with the clinical and diagnostic findings is a commonly seen drug-seeking behavior. Psychiatric evaluation should be considered in such cases. However, this patient has been diagnosed with an ulnar fracture that credibly causes him great pain and warrants immediate pain management.

**F - Administration of buprenorphine** - Buprenorphine, a partial agonist at μ-opioid receptors, is used in opioid maintenance therapy to treat opioid addiction. However, it does not provide adequate analgesia and would, therefore, not be effective in the management of this patient's severe pain.

