### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - t(12;21)** - Translocation t(12;21) is the most common chromosomal rearrangement in childhood B-ALL and is associated with a favorable prognosis. Further positive prognostic factors are a leukocyte count < 50,000/mm3, no central nervous system involvement, and hyperploidy. Factors associated with a poor prognosis include a Philadelphia translocation t(9;22) and age < 1 year or > 10 years. 85% of children with ALL achieve complete remission with chemotherapy.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - t(15;17)** - Translocation t(15;17) is associated with acute myeloid leukemia (particularly acute promyelocytic leukemia, or APL), the most common kind of acute leukemia in adults. This translocation alters the retinoic acid receptor, preventing myeloblast differentiation from occurring under physiologic levels of retinoic acid. High doses of all-trans retinoic acid may induce remission by causing malignant cells to mature. Thus, t(15;17) is a favorable prognostic factor in patients with APL. However, this patient has B-ALL, which is not typically associated with this translocation.

**C - t(8;14)** - Translocation t(8;14) is associated with Burkitt lymphoma, an aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma typically manifesting in children and young adults as a rapidly expanding jaw mass. This patient has B-ALL, which is not typically associated with this translocation.

**D - t(14;18)** - Translocation t(14;18) is associated with follicular lymphoma as well as diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, the most common non-Hodgkin lymphoma in adults. This patient has B-ALL, which is not typically associated with this translocation.

**E - t(9;22)** - Translocation t(9;22) (Philadelphia translocation), is associated with chronic myeloid leukemia (> 90% of patients), acute myeloid leukemia, and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), which this patient does have. However, t(9;22) has been shown to be an unfavorable prognostic factor for ALL.

