### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Acute myelogenous leukemia** - AML often presents with fatigue, petechiae, and splenomegaly, and some subtypes (especially M3) exhibit Auer rods. A bone marrow aspirate or biopsy would be the confirmatory diagnostic tests, showing > 20% myeloblasts in the bone marrow.

Image File: 171-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_603cfb9994946.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cirrhosis** - This patient's alcohol use is a risk factor for cirrhosis, which can result in splenomegaly, petechiae, and thrombocytopenia. However, the blood smear featuring immature cells with Auer rods raises concern for a neoplastic disorder of WBCs.

**B - Acute lymphoblastic leukemia** - ALL may present with splenomegaly, petechiae, and fatigue, but it typically affects children with a peak incidence between ages 2–5. Also, it usually manifests with painless lymphadenopathy, fever, night sweats, and unexplained weight loss. Histology in ALL would show a marked increase of immature lymphoblasts without Auer rods.

**C - Chronic myelogenous leukemia** - Although symptoms of CML can include fatigue and splenomegaly, it typically presents with the most severe leukocytosis (> 500,000/mm3) of all forms of leukemia. This patient's Auer rods and leukocyte count of 80,000/mm3 indicate a different diagnosis.

**D - Myelodysplastic syndrome** - MDS presents with thrombocytopenia and anemia, as seen in this patient. However, a blood smear may show nucleated RBCs, ringed sideroblasts, Howell-Jolly bodies, or basophilic stippling, but not Auer rods.

**E - Chronic lymphocytic leukemia** - CLL presents in elderly patients with fatigue due to anemia and, in later stage, possibly petechiae due to thrombocytopenia and splenomegaly. Although lymphocytosis would be present, a blood smear would show smudge cells and not Auer rods.

