### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Phytonadione and prothrombin complex concentrate** - This patient's history of taking warfarin for atrial fibrillation and high-dose acetaminophen for osteoarthritis likely contributed to the retroperitoneal hematoma. Acetaminophen metabolites inhibit vitamin K-dependent carboxylase and thereby the formation of coagulation factors in the extrinsic pathway. This patient should receive prothrombin complex concentrate to replenish the vitamin K-dependent factors (II, VII, IX, X), and phytonadione, a vitamin K produced by plants, to aid in factor activation.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Desmopressin and platelet concentrate** - Desmopressin and platelet concentrate are beneficial in patients with bleeding due to platelet dysfunction (e.g., uremia, antiplatelet agents). Platelet dysfunction usually manifests with mucosal bleeding (e.g., bleeding gums, epistaxis, petechiae, purpura, ecchymosis). In contrast, warfarin affects the coagulation cascade, which results in the deep tissue bleeding (retroperitoneal hemorrhage) seen in this patient.

**B - Fresh frozen plasma and tranexamic acid** - Fresh frozen plasma (FFP) contains all the clotting factors required for warfarin reversal but is considered a second-line agent. Because of its side effect profile, which includes volume overload and transfusion reactions, a different reversal agent is preferred. Moreover, tranexamic acid is an antifibrinolytic agent mainly used for treating severe blood loss due to severe trauma, surgery, and post-partum hemorrhage, but it is not classically used for warfarin reversal.

**C - Aminocaproic acid and packed red blood cells** - Aminocaproic acid is an antifibrinolytic agent that inhibits the plasminogen-plasmin system. It is indicated for excessive bleeding in patients on thrombolytics (e.g., streptokinase, tPA), but it would not be used to counteract the effects of warfarin in the case of hemorrhage. Packed red blood cells (pRBC) are classically indicated in severe blood loss due to acute hemorrhage (with or without hypovolemic shock) or symptomatic anemia (e.g., G6PD deficiency). However, in a patient without signs of hypoxia (e.g., tachycardia, hypotension, dyspnea) or anemia (e.g., exertional dyspnea. fatigue, pallor), pRBC should not be administered. Moreover, administration of pRBC would not reverse warfarin-induced hemorrhage.

**D - Factor VIII and von Willebrand factor** - Factor VIII and von Willebrand factor (vWF) are indicated for managing acute bleeding and to prevent surgical bleeding in patients with hemophilia A or vWF deficiency. However, neither agent would reverse warfarin-induced hemorrhage.

**F - Protamine sulfate and hydroxyethyl starch** - Protamine sulfate, a heparin antidote, is mainly used for the treatment of heparin overdose, and hydroxyethyl starch is an intravascular volume expander used in patients with hypovolemic shock or severe hemorrhage (due to trauma and/or surgery). However, neither agent would reverse a warfarin-induced hemorrhage.

