### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - C** - These serum findings are most consistent with disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) as evidenced by increased prothrombin time (PT), partial thromboplastin time (PTT), and D-dimer. DIC is a disorder characterized by systemic activation of the clotting cascade with microthrombi formation, which results in the exhaustion of all clotting factors. Microthrombi precipitate microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, which results in schistocytes on peripheral blood smear, as seen in this patient. The depletion of clotting factors prolongs the PT and PTT. Fibrinogen is activated in the clotting cascade to become fibrin; thus, a decrease in fibrinogen is expected in patients with DIC.

Image File: 175-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6050e05b28e09.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - These serum findings are most consistent with liver disease, such as cirrhosis. Cirrhosis is caused by chronic damage to the liver parenchyma and manifests with impaired liver function, which can cause decreased production of coagulation factors. As a result, patients can develop a bleeding diathesis (e.g., blood oozing around IV sites, prolonged PT and PTT). However, cirrhosis typically also causes other manifestations, such as jaundice, asterixis, spider angiomata, and ascites, none of which are seen in this patient. This patient's acute presentation is most consistent with disseminated intravascular coagulation, which results in a different set of serum findings.

**B - B** - These serum findings are normal but could be seen in patients with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura or hemolytic uremic syndrome (TTP/HUS). This spectrum of conditions is characterized by the formation of microthrombi that occlude the microvasculature and can manifest with fevers, petechiae, purpura, mucosal bleeding, and schistocytes and thrombocytopenia on peripheral blood smear. However, this condition typically also causes neurologic symptoms (e.g., altered mental status, delirium, or seizures) and impaired renal function, none of which are seen in this patient. This patient's acute presentation is most consistent with disseminated intravascular coagulation, which results in a different set of serum findings.

**D - D** - These serum findings are most consistent with heparin use. Heparin is an anticoagulant used routinely for the prevention and treatment of venous thromboembolism. Heparin indirectly inhibits thrombin and factor Xa, which increases PTT. Complications of heparin administration include bleeding and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT). However, this patient has additional clinical manifestations that are not caused by complications of heparin therapy, including acute-onset fever, hypotension, tachycardia, and schistocytes on peripheral blood smear. Moreover, HIT typically develops 5–14 days after initiation of heparin therapy. This patient's acute presentation is most consistent with disseminated intravascular coagulation, which results in a different set of serum findings.

**E - E** - These serum findings are most consistent with deep venous thrombosis (DVT), an obstruction of a vein by a clot. DVT most commonly occur in the legs and can result in asymmetrical calf size. Pulmonary embolism (PE), a serious complication of DVT, can manifest with fevers, tachycardia, and hypotension. However, neither of these conditions results in bleeding or thrombocytopenia. This patient's acute presentation is most consistent with disseminated intravascular coagulation, which results in a different set of serum findings.

