### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Pancreatic adenocarcinoma** - Migratory superficial thrombophlebitis may be secondary to an occult malignancy, typically pancreatic adenocarcinoma. This phenomenon, known as Trousseau syndrome, results from a hypercoagulable state and can occur months to years before a malignant process is detected. In addition, this patient presents with other findings that suggest pancreatic cancer, including diarrhea (possibly steatorrhea secondary to exocrine pancreatic insufficiency), anorexia, and unexplained weight loss. A contrast-enhanced CT scan of the abdomen is required to confirm the diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Crohn disease** - Crohn disease has a bimodal distribution with the second peak age of onset at 55–70 years and can manifest with diarrhea, weight loss, and tender, erythematous skin lesions (i.e., erythema nodosum), similar to what is seen here. However, erythema nodosum typically manifests bilaterally on the shins with nodular lesions rather than a palpable cord, and the lesions seen in erythema nodosum are not migratory. Moreover, a cardinal symptom of Crohn disease is abdominal pain, which this patient does not have.

Image File: 178-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_508c11f47cce7.jpg

**B - Antiphospholipid syndrome** - Antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) can be primary (e.g., idiopathic) or secondary to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), neoplasms, rheumatoid arthritis, or infections. Although APS causes a hypercoagulable state, resulting in arterial and venous thrombi, the transient and migratory quality of this patient's symptoms suggests a different underlying condition.

**D - Thromboangiitis obliterans** - Thromboangiitis obliterans (TAO) can manifest with migratory ST in the early stages, similar to what is seen here. In addition, this patient has a history of smoking, which is the single most important risk factor for TAO. However, other early manifestations include intermittent claudication and Raynaud disease, neither of which this patient has. Moreover, weight loss and diarrhea are not expected findings in TAO.

**E - Hepatitis B infection** - Hepatitis B infection can, in its chronic form, lead to extrahepatic manifestations, such as polyarteritis nodosa (PAN). Patients with PAN can present with weight loss and tender, erythematous skin lesions, which are seen here. However, the lesions in PAN are typically nodular rather than cord-like. The transient and migratory quality of this patient's symptoms is consistent with migratory thrombophlebitis, which is not usually associated with hepatitis B infection.

