### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Methamphetamine** - This patient is acutely intoxicated with methamphetamine, a recreational drug that causes sympathetic overstimulation and formication. Smoking is the most common method of methamphetamine use. Tooth decay (due to xerostomia) and bruxism associated with methamphetamine use often lead to severe tooth damage, as seen in this patient. Stimulant drugs (e.g., cocaine, amphetamines, bath salts) exert their sympathetic effect by inhibiting the reuptake of monoamines (e.g., norepinephrine, dopamine, serotonin).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bath salts** - Bath salt intoxication can manifest with agitation, features of sympathetic overstimulation, and formication, as seen here. However, this patient does not have other typical features of bath salt intoxication, such as prolonged confusion and muscle spasms. In addition, routine toxicology screens are not usually able to detect bath salts. Moreover, severe tooth damage is more commonly associated with a different substance of abuse.

**B - Cocaine** - Cocaine intoxication can manifest with agitation, features of sympathetic overstimulation, and formication, as seen here. However, severe tooth damage is not typically associated with cocaine use; instead, patients would have with rhinitis, epistaxis, and/or septal perforation because inhalation is the most common method of cocaine use.

**D - Heroin** - Opioid (e.g., heroin) intoxication typically causes miosis, respiratory depression, hypothermia, bradycardia, and hypotension. These features are not consistent with this patient's presentation.

**E - Lysergic acid diethylamide** - Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) is a hallucinogen that can cause agitation (due to paranoia) and features of sympathetic overstimulation, which are present in this patient. However, tactile hallucinations (e.g., formication), as seen here, are unusual with LSD use; instead, patients have visual hallucinations or illusions, depersonalization, and flight of ideas. In addition, severe tooth decay is more commonly associated with a different substance of abuse.

**F - Phencyclidine** - Phencyclidine (PCP) is a hallucinogen that can cause agitation, hyperthermia, tachycardia, hypertension, and formication, as seen here. However, this patient does not have other characteristic features of PCP intoxication, such as violent behavior, diminished pain perception, vertical nystagmus, and miosis. In addition, severe tooth damage is more commonly associated with a different substance of abuse.

