### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Discontinue methimazole** - This patient recently began taking methimazole, an antithyroid drug, which is associated with a risk of agranulocytosis that usually occurs within the first 3 months of treatment. In patients with laboratory evidence of drug-induced neutropenia, the offending drug should be discontinued immediately, regardless of whether the patient is symptomatic. This patient has signs of active infection (fever, malaise, chills) in association with agranulocytosis, which should be considered a medical emergency requiring immediate discontinuation of the drug.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bone marrow biopsy** - In patients with agranulocytosis, bone marrow biopsy is useful for determining bone marrow disorders and malignancies as the underlying cause. Because bone marrow disorders (e.g., aplastic anemia) typically affect all cell lines, it is unlikely in this patient. The majority of cases of agranulocytosis are of a different etiology that can be determined without performing invasive tests.

**C - Switch to propylthiouracil** - Propylthiouracil (PTU) is an antithyroid drug of the thionamide class. Like other drugs in this class, it can cause agranulocytosis. If a patient develops agranulocytosis while taking a thionamide drug, the use of another drug of the same class is contraindicated because of the high risk of cross-reactivity.

**D - Test for EBV, HIV, and CMV** - Viral infection with EBV, HIV, or CMV could explain this patient's fever, malaise, dysphagia, and erythematous pharynx. Furthermore, infection with these viruses can suppress hematopoiesis, resulting in pancytopenia. Agranulocytosis, however, would not be expected.

**E - Decrease methimazole dose** - Methimazole is most probably causing this patient's agranulocytosis. However, decreasing the dose of methimazole in a patient presenting with drug-induced agranulocytosis and signs of active infection is not sufficient! In patients with laboratory evidence of drug-induced neutropenia, the offending drug should be discontinued entirely.

**F - Begin oral aminopenicillin** - Administration of oral aminopenicillin is the treatment of choice for patients with acute GAS tonsillitis. While this patient's findings (fever, malaise, dysphagia) are suggestive of acute tonsillitis, the absence of tonsillar exudate makes it unlikely. More importantly, this patient's laboratory tests confirm that she has agranulocytosis. She is at high risk of developing a severe, systemic infection. Oral antibiotics would not be sufficient.

