### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Decreased haptoglobin level** - This patient's symptoms (fatigue, scleral icterus), laboratory findings (decreased hemoglobin levels, positive direct Coombs test), and recent upper respiratory infection are consistent with autoimmune hemolytic anemia, which is most likely to have been triggered by a recent EBV infection. The hemolysis of erythrocytes through cold agglutinin antibodies leads to the liberation of hemoglobin, which causes decreased haptoglobin levels because hemoglobin is bound by haptoglobin.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increased serum C3 complement concentration** - A decreased rather than increased serum C3 complement concentration would be expected in autoimmune hemolytic anemia associated with EBV infection. The antibodies seen in this condition are cold-sensitive IgM antibodies that bind to erythrocytes. These antibodies activate the complement system, thereby reducing the concentration of serum complement factors and causing intravascular hemolysis. Since not all of the erythrocytes are subject to complement-mediated breakdown, some will eventually be broken down in the extravascular component of hemolysis, the reticuloendothelial system of the spleen and the liver.

**B - Increased direct bilirubin level** - Increased direct bilirubin levels can be seen in patients with impaired hepatic bilirubin excretion or biliary obstruction, both of which can manifest with scleral icterus. However, this patient presents with signs of hemolytic anemia, which is associated with indirect hyperbilirubinemia due to increased release of unconjugated (indirect) bilirubin secondary to erythrocyte destruction.

**D - Decreased reticulocyte count** - A decreased reticulocyte count, which indicates impaired erythrocyte production, can be seen in aplastic anemia. Although this patient's recent EBV infection puts her at risk for aplastic anemia, she presents with scleral icterus and a positive Coombs test, which are both signs of hemolysis. Hemolytic anemia would be associated with an increased rather than a decreased reticulocyte count due to accelerated erythropoiesis in the bone marrow.

**E - Decreased mean corpuscular volume** - A decreased mean corpuscular volume (MCV) is characteristic of microcytic anemia (e.g., severe iron deficiency anemia). Although this patient's age and sex put her at increased risk of iron deficiency anemia, she also presents with scleral icterus and a positive Coombs test, which are both signs of hemolysis. In antibody-mediated hemolytic anemia, which is seen in this patient, laboratory findings can show falsely increased MCV levels due to erythrocyte clumping.

**F - Increased bleeding time** - Increased bleeding time is characteristic of platelet or coagulation problems, such as disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). Although decreased hemoglobin levels can be seen in DIC because of hemorrhage, this patient has no signs of excessive bleeding. In addition, she presents with scleral icterus and a positive Coombs test, both of which are signs of hemolysis, which is not associated with increased bleeding time.

