### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Direct Coombs test** - The direct Coombs test detects antibodies bound to the RBC membrane, thereby confirming autoimmune hemolytic anemia. A negative direct Coombs test indicates a non-autoimmune cause that requires further workup, including enzyme deficiencies, hemoglobinopathies, or mechanical stress.

Image File: 185-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dce8cd74885d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ristocetin cofactor assay** - The ristocetin cofactor assay is used to help diagnose von Willebrand disease (vWD). In vWD, platelet adhesion is impaired, which results in ineffective primary hemostasis that can cause bleeding (e.g., epistaxis or menorrhagia), but the condition is usually asymptomatic. Regardless, vWD does not cause hemolytic anemia.

Image File: 185-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d5fb1f04aa24.jpg

**B - Osmotic fragility test** - An osmotic fragility test is used to test for hereditary spherocytosis, which does cause hemolytic anemia and spherocytes but generally manifests already during infancy or early childhood, typically with a positive family history. Additionally, patients with hereditary spherocytosis typically also have splenomegaly (due to increased RBC breakdown) and often a history of cholelithiasis (due to pigment stones caused by elevated bilirubin from increased RBC breakdown), neither of which is present in this case.

**D - ADAMTS13 activity and inhibitor profile** - A deficient ADAMTS13 is the cause of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), which is classically characterized by a pentad of low platelet count, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, fever, kidney dysfunction, and neurologic symptoms. While this patient has features of hemolytic anemia, mild thrombocytopenia, fever, and darkened urine that may indicate hematuria, she does not have neurological symptoms like hallucinations or delirium. There are also no schistocytes on her blood smear or evidence of end-organ dysfunction (liver enzymes are normal) that would indicate this is a microangiopathic hemolytic anemia. Moreover, she lacks petechiae, purpura, or other bleeding manifestations commonly seen in TTP.

**E - Hemoglobin electrophoresis** - Hemoglobin electrophoresis is used to confirm diagnoses like sickle cell anemia and thalassemias. Although sickle cell anemia does cause jaundice in a hemolytic crisis, it typically already presents in childhood. Additionally, this patient does not have a previous history of sickle crises (joint pains, dactylitis, acute chest syndrome) or any family history of sickle cell anemia that would raise suspicion of sickle cell disease. Similarly, thalassemia subtypes that would present with symptoms (thalassemia intermedia and major) would present earlier in life as chronic anemia

**F - Flow cytometry** - Flow cytometry is useful to measure levels of CD55 and CD59 expression on the patient's peripheral blood cells in order to diagnose paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH). Although PNH cannot be completely ruled out in this patient, the onset of hemolytic anemia after a recent lower respiratory tract infection makes another diagnosis more likely.

Image File: 185-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b8d168b4d17c.jpg

**G - Pyruvate kinase enzyme activity** - Pyruvate kinase deficiency (PKD) is an RBC enzyme defect leading to shortened RBC lifespans and also causes hemolytic anemia. However, PKD usually causes symptoms already during early childhood, and patients typically have splenomegaly and a history of blood transfusions and newborn icterus, which is not the case here.

