### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Eosin-5-maleimide binding test** - The eosin-5-maleimide (EMA) binding test analyzes the interaction between a dye and certain proteins on the RBC surface through flow cytometry. It is a rapid test that is highly sensitive and specific for hereditary spherocytosis, and is now considered the gold standard for the diagnosis of hereditary spherocytosis. The osmotic fragility test (OFT) was previously considered the gold standard, but two new tests, the acidified glycerol lysis test and the EMA binding test, are more sensitive and specific for the condition. The OFT can still be considered if neither of these two tests is available.

Image File: 186-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5911bbe14ca06.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Osmotic fragility test** - The osmotic fragility test can be used to screen patients for hereditary spherocytosis. However, there are two newer and more sensitive and/or specific tests: a screening test (acidified glycerol lysis test) and a confirmatory test, which is indicated in this patient. The osmotic fragility test can be useful if no other, newer test is available.

**B - Coombs test** - A direct Coombs test is useful for investigating autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA), whereas the indirect Coombs test is primarily used in antenatal care or crossmatching. Although AIHA could present with jaundice, splenomegaly, and even spherocytes and elevated MCHC, it primarily occurs in individuals over 40 and is typically associated with an elevated ESR and recent infection, malignancy, or drug intake. Although it cannot be ruled out entirely, it is a much rarer childhood condition than hereditary spherocytosis, especially without a history of recent infection, genetic predisposition, and/or underlying immune disorder. It would also not explain this patient's past episodes of jaundice.

**D - Hemoglobin electrophoresis** - Hemoglobin electrophoresis is a useful test when investigating thalassemia or suspected sickle cell disease. Although these conditions present with signs of hemolytic disease such as anemia, jaundice, and splenomegaly, they are not associated with spherocytes.

**E - Serum ferritin level** - Measuring the serum ferritin level is useful for confirming suspected iron deficiency. Iron deficiency anemia, however, does not present with spherocytes nor with jaundice.

