### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Beta-thalassemia** - In patients with beta-thalassemia, defective hemoglobin chain synthesis results in ineffective hematopoiesis and subsequent chronic anemia. In a state of severe chronic anemia, extramedullary hematopoiesis often occurs as a compensatory mechanism. Extramedullary hematopoiesis most commonly involves the paravertebral areas, as seen in this patient, followed by the liver, spleen, and lymph nodes.

Image File: 188-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6065be5d37463.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hereditary spherocytosis** - Hereditary spherocytosis can cause anemia and hyperbilirubinemia as a result of hemolysis. However, in hereditary spherocytosis, extramedullary hematopoiesis is rare, and patients usually develop normocytic anemia, not microcytic anemia.

**B - G6PD deficiency** - G6PD deficiency can cause anemia and hyperbilirubinemia as a result of hemolysis, but only after exposure to significant oxidative stress (e.g., infection, consumption of fava beans). Furthermore, in G6PD deficiency, extramedullary hematopoiesis is rare, and patients usually develop normocytic anemia, not microcytic anemia.

**C - Aplastic anemia** - Aplastic anemia manifests with pancytopenia and normocytic anemia, unlike this patient with a normal platelet count and microcytic anemia. Moreover, aplastic anemia would not be associated with hyperbilirubinemia and it does not lead to extramedullary hematopoiesis.

**D - Lead poisoning** - Lead poisoning can cause microcytic anemia as well as mild hyperbilirubinemia due to hemolysis. However, this patient does not have the typical clinical manifestations of lead poisoning (e.g., intestinal colic, anorexia, constipation, encephalopathy). Furthermore, lead poisoning does not cause extramedullary hematopoiesis.

**E - Multiple myeloma** - Multiple myeloma (MM) would cause anemia and masses in the soft tissue (extramedullary plasmacytoma) or bone. However, the anemia associated with MM is normocytic or macrocytic, not microcytic, and a biopsy of such a mass would show ≥ 10% clonal plasma cells, not erythroid colonies. Moreover, imaging of the skull would reveal focal lytic lesions (“pepper pot skull”), not widening of the diploic spaces as seen here. Finally, multiple myeloma is typically diagnosed among adults; it is extremely rare among children.

Image File: 188-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91f78906.jpg

