### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Aplastic anemia** - Aplastic anemia is the cause of this patient's pancytopenia, normocytic anemia, and dry tap. Viral infections, either idiopathic (i.e., nontypeable or unknown virus, as in this case), EBV, or CMV are known to cause aplastic anemia in otherwise healthy children. Noninfectious causes include drugs (e.g., chloramphenicol, carbamazepine, or benzene), prior radiation, congenital conditions (e.g., Fanconi anemia or Shwachman-Diamond syndrome), and complications of leukemia. Parvovirus B19 may also cause pure red cell aplasia or aplastic crisis, but these primarily occur in patients with immunodeficiency or chronic hemolytic anemias, respectively.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Multiple myeloma** - Multiple myeloma classically presents with signs of hypercalcemia (e.g., abdominal pain), renal impairment, anemia (e.g., shortness of breath, fatigue, or pallor), and bony lesions (CRAB criteria). Peripheral smear characteristically shows rouleaux formations, and marrow aspiration demonstrates abnormal populations of plasma cells. This condition is virtually unheard of in children, with a peak incidence in the 6th decade.

**C - Primary myelofibrosis** - Primary myelofibrosis is a condition that is very rare in childhood, with a peak incidence between the 6th–7th decades. Labs can demonstrate pancytopenia and bone marrow hypocellularity, but the condition is chronic in nature and is often accompanied by splenomegaly. A peripheral smear would demonstrate nucleated erythrocyte precursors and immature myeloid cells. This young patient has both a different clinical course and a peripheral smear.

**D - Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura** - Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is an autoimmune disease targeting platelets, which results in thrombocytopenia and causes bleeding manifestations. In ITP, there are normal RBC and leukocyte counts, normochromic and normocytic cells on peripheral smear, and normal bone marrow findings. This patient's pancytopenia and hypocellular marrow would be inconsistent with this diagnosis.

**E - Acute lymphoblastic leukemia** - Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), occurring most commonly in children aged 2–5 years, presents with hepatosplenomegaly and B symptoms. Anemia, thrombocytopenia, and hyperleukocytosis are common laboratory abnormalities and peripheral smear typically shows granulocyte precursors and nucleated erythrocytes. Bone marrow aspirate would show hypercellularity owing to neoplastic invasion, not hypocellularity as seen in this patient.

