### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Ferritin levels** - Iron deficiency is the most common cause of microcytic anemia, especially in women due to blood loss during menstruation, which can gradually decrease the body's iron stores. Ferritin measurement is the first-line test for assessing the body's iron stores and screening for iron deficiency anemia (IDA). The changes associated with IDA include decreased ferritin, increased transferrin, and decreased transferrin saturation. Further work-up would be needed to ascertain whether abnormal bleeding or malabsorption may be causing the iron deficiency.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hemoglobin electrophoresis** - Hemoglobin electrophoresis is a laboratory test used to diagnose inherited hematologic disorders associated with abnormal hemoglobin production (e.g., sickle cell anemia, thalassemia). Although these are important causes of microcytic anemia, they usually manifest in early childhood rather than in adulthood. In this patient with clinical features suggestive of iron deficiency (e.g., brittle nails, angular cheilitis), a different test would be used to confirm the diagnosis.

**B - Direct Coombs test** - The direct Coombs test is used to diagnose autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA), which is associated with recent viral infection (e.g., infectious mononucleosis). However, AIHA most commonly presents with a normal or increased MCV, in contrast to this patient's low MCV. Moreover, her brittle nails and angular cheilitis are not consistent with AIHA. Instead, patients typically present with jaundice.

**C - Serum TSH measurement** - Serum TSH measurement is the first-line diagnostic test for hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism. This patient has a family history of Hashimoto thyroiditis, and her fatigue could potentially be explained by hypothyroidism. Although hypothyroidism can cause menorrhagia, which can lead to iron deficiency and microcytic anemia, the patient does not report any increase in her menstrual flow. Her unchanged weight is also inconsistent with hypothyroidism.

**D - Vitamin B12 levels** - Vitamin B12 is measured in order to diagnose vitamin B12 deficiency, which would cause anemia and occasionally, angular cheilitis. However, vitamin B12 deficiency causes macrocytic anemia rather than the microcytic anemia seen in this patient and brittle nails would not be expected. Instead, the patient would have other features such as glossitis or neuropathy.

**F - Peripheral blood smear** - Peripheral blood smear allows abnormal RBCs to be identified, which may reveal the cause of unexplained anemia (e.g., schistocytes indicate microangiopathic hemolysis). However, it would not be the first-line test for the work-up of microcytic anemia, which can be evaluated with other tests that do not require histopathological examination.

**G - Bone marrow biopsy** - Bone marrow biopsy is used to diagnose diseases such as aplastic anemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and hematologic malignancies. It may also be used to directly measure bone marrow iron stores in patients with suspected iron deficiency anemia when first-line testing does not lead to a diagnosis. However, an invasive test such as bone marrow biopsy would not be indicated for initial work-up.

