### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Normal behavior** - This 9-month old child presents with milestones that are appropriate for her age. Her crying pattern is consistent with stranger anxiety (crying when picked up by strangers) and separation anxiety (crying when her parents leave the room), both of which are typical and normal social behaviors in children of this age. Other typical social skills that develop at this age include object permanence and the ability to imitate actions.

Image File: 2-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e34384a5f91e.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Separation anxiety disorder** - Separation anxiety disorder is characterized by excessive anxiety of separation from major attachment figures such as the parents and usually develops during childhood. Although this infant presents with symptoms of separation anxiety (e.g., starts to cry when her parents leave the room), the diagnosis of separation anxiety disorder cannot be established at this age.

**B - Reactive attachment disorder** - Reactive attachment disorder manifests with an inhibited, emotionally withdrawn behavior towards caretakers without seeking comfort when distressed. This patient, however, cries when her parents leave the room, indicating a strong attachment and anxiety of separation of attachment figures, which is not consistent with reactive attachment disorder.

**C - Autism spectrum disorder** - Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) usually manifests with detachment and inability or difficulty to form relationships. This patient, however, cries when her parents leave the room, indicating a strong attachment and anxiety of separation of attachment figures. Moreover, patients with ASD typically present with other findings such as abnormal language development and stereotypical patterns of behavior (e.g., hand flapping, adverse response to sounds), none of which is seen here.

**D - Infantile colic** - Infantile colic manifests with episodes of crying in otherwise healthy and thriving infants, which is seen here. However, crying in infantile colic is not associated with the absence of attachment figures, or the presence of strangers. Moreover, infantile colic typically resolves spontaneously by 3–4 months of age.

**F - Child abuse** - This infant shows no signs or symptoms suggestive of physical child abuse (e.g., injuries at different stages of healing). Infants who are subject to sexual child abuse may present with normal physical examination findings or with findings restricted to genital and anal areas, which can easily be overseen. Sexual child abuse should be considered in children with recurrent urinary tract infections and behavioral changes. This patient's presentation, however, is not suggestive of sexual child abuse or other types of child abuse (e.g., child neglect).

