### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - The procedure can be performed because the patient consents to treatment.** - All patients have the right to informed consent. However, patients also have the right to refuse information about their health care if they demonstrate competent decision-making abilities. The patient clearly and voluntarily articulated her understanding of the situation and her will to proceed with surgery, so the procedure can be performed. Other settings in which informed consent may not be necessary include medical emergencies, physician use of therapeutic privilege, and a lack of patient legal competence.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - The procedure cannot be performed because the patient currently lacks decision-making capacity.** - Decision-making capacity is determined by the physician for a specific healthcare-related situation and is a prerequisite for giving informed consent. This patient fulfills all criteria for intact decision-making capacity: she has articulated understanding of the information conveyed by the physician (i.e., the severity of the situation, surgery as indicated treatment, the possibility of complications and adjuvant treatment), appreciates how the information relates to her, uses the provided information to make a decision regarding her care (i.e., proceeding with surgery), and clearly expresses a choice. There is no indication that her decision-making capacity is currently impaired.

**C - The procedure cannot be performed because the patient lacks an understanding of the risks associated with mastectomy.** - Understanding the risks and benefits of a proposed procedure is a prerequisite for giving informed consent. Although this patient exercised her right to waive disclosure of pertinent information offered by the physician, she articulated that she clearly understands that there are risks and consequences to the offered treatment and would still like to proceed with surgery. Therefore, it cannot be presumed that she lacks understanding of the risks associated with mastectomy.

**D - The procedure cannot be performed because the patient lacks competence.** - Competence to make medical decisions is a legal assessment of a patient's ability to make decisions regarding healthcare in general and is a prerequisite for giving informed consent. Competence to make medical decisions is usually presumed. When an assessment of competence is necessary, it is determined by a judge, not a physician. Competence may need to be verified in patients with severe psychiatric illness and/or cognitive impairment, particularly if a physician seeks to override a patient's refusal of treatment. This patient does not display any features that call into question her competence.

**E - The procedure can be performed because emergency treatment is needed.** - Medical emergencies may be exempt from informed consent if a patient or a surrogate decision-maker is unable to consent (e.g., unconscious trauma patient with no surrogate present) and immediate treatment is needed. Although this patient's diagnosis eventually poses a risk to her life if left untreated, her condition is not acutely life-threatening, and the proposed procedure is elective, so this exception to informed consent does not apply.

**F - The procedure can be performed because therapeutic privilege has been invoked.** - Therapeutic privilege is an exception to informed consent in which a physician decides to intentionally withhold information from the patient (e.g., when disclosure of information poses a serious psychologic threat to the patient). In this scenario, the physician has already explained the diagnosis, the possible complications of the condition, and the indicated treatment to the patient, and has now initiated a discussion about the specifics of the proposed procedure. There is no indication that the physician has decided to withhold information from the patient.

