### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Methylprednisolone** - The presence of neutrophilia without left shift (no increase in bands) is classic for glucocorticoid-induced leukocytosis. Glucocorticoids inhibit the attachment of neutrophils to their endothelial surface receptors, resulting in demargination. Other minor mechanisms of glucocorticoid-induced leukocytosis include delayed apoptosis and a slight increase in bone marrow production, which typically occur 24 hours after administration.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Rituximab** - Rituximab, an anti-CD20+ biologic, prevents the maturation and differentiation of B cells via antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. Through its B-cell cytotoxic action, rituximab can cause leukopenia and is not commonly administered after renal or other solid organ transplantations.

**C - Abciximab** - Abciximab is a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor antagonist that prevents platelet adhesion and aggregation. The primary side effect of this class of drugs is bleeding, not neutrophilia.

**D - Ganciclovir** - Ganciclovir is an anti-viral medication widely used in the treatment of CMV in immunocompromised hosts. It is associated with bone marrow suppression and would present with leukopenia, not leukocytosis.

**E - Erythropoietin** - Administration of EPO, a medication used to stimulate erythropoiesis, would lead to an elevation in circulating RBCs, not WBCs. EPO is not commonly administered after renal or other solid organ transplantations.

**F - Tacrolimus** - Tacrolimus is an immunosuppressant that acts primarily to inhibit expression of IL-2, a cytokine responsible for T-cell proliferation. It is commonly used after organ transplantation to prevent acute rejection. Tacrolimus can cause neutropenia, not neutrophilia, in kidney transplant recipients.

