### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Low leukocyte alkaline phosphatase score** - Low leukocyte alkaline phosphatase (LAP) is a distinct feature of CML that distinguishes it from all other forms of leukemia. Cytogenetic testing in this patient will most likely demonstrate a t(9;22) translocation (Philadelphia chromosome), resulting in the BCR-ABL fusion gene.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Elevated serum calcium** - Hypercalcemia may be caused by a variety of conditions including multiple myeloma (MM) due to osteolytic processes, which could explain this patient's shoulder pain. However, although MM may present with anemia due to bone marrow infiltration, lab results would likely also show thrombocytopenia and leukopenia – not thrombocytosis and leukocytosis. Additionally, this patient does not present with other manifestations of MM such as increased susceptibility to infections or signs of renal failure.

**C - Decreased basophil count** - Decreased basophil count may be caused by various conditions, including hypersensitivity reactions and infections. However, it is not a common finding in patients with CML. Peripheral blood analysis of individuals with CML often shows increased basophil count, which can be a sign of disease acceleration.

**D - Autoimmune hemolytic anemia** - Autoimmune hemolytic anemia can occur as a complication of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. This patient has some features that are typical of CLL, such as anemia and leukocytosis. However, individuals with CLL typically present with painless lymphadenopathy and thrombocytopenia, which are absent in this patient.

**E - Elevated serum β2 microglobulin** - Elevated serum β2 microglobulin is a common finding in patients with multiple myeloma. MM causes osteolytic processes, which could explain this patient's shoulder pain. However, although MM may present with anemia due to bone marrow infiltration, lab results would likely also show thrombocytopenia and leukopenia – not thrombocytosis and leukocytosis. Additionally, this patient does not present with other manifestations of MM such as increased susceptibility to infections or signs of renal failure.

