### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Mosquito repellent** - The use of mosquito repellent is an effective measure for preventing bites from Aedes aegypti, and thus dengue virus infection. Retro-orbital pain, fever, malaise, and myalgia are typically described by patients who have contracted dengue, and are accompanied by exanthem and lymphadenopathy. Additionally, the occurrence of typical hematologic findings such as leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and transaminitis in a patient who has traveled to an endemic area is highly suggestive of dengue.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Safe sexual practices** - Although inconsistent condom use increases the risk of sexually transmitted diseases (STD), this patient does not present any clinical or laboratory evidence suggestive of an STD.

**C - Prophylaxis with doxycycline** - Doxycycline is one of the drugs that may be given to patients who meet the criteria for receiving malaria chemoprophylaxis. Although this patient has some of the clinical features of malaria – such as fever, malaise, and myalgia – he has not traveled to an area in which the disease is endemic. Therefore, malaria is very unlikely as a diagnosis.

**D - Vaccination** - The CDC recommends hepatitis A vaccination for most international travelers because of the risk of contracting hepatitis A through contaminated food and/or water in many countries (including Taiwan). Although patients with hepatitis A infections do present with fever and alteration of liver enzymes (with levels that may even exceed 10,000 mIU/mL), hepatomegaly is usually present and occasionally hyperbilirubinemia leading to jaundice, which this patient does not have.

**E - Frequent hand washing** - Frequent hand washing is a prophylactic measure for some viral diseases, such as infectious mononucleosis (IM), which is caused by the Epstein-Barr virus. Although this patient's history of fever and malaise would make EBV infection a possible differential diagnosis, he lacks typical features of IM such as sore throat, lymphocytosis, and splenomegaly.

