### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Blood smear** - A thick blood smear is the best initial test for diagnosing malaria and allows direct visualization of Plasmodium parasites in any patient with suspected malaria. Confirmatory testing with a thin blood smear should follow. Treatment with artesunate, the treatment of choice for severe malaria, should be initiated in this patient as soon as possible.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Coombs test** - A Coombs test would be indicated if autoimmune hemolytic anemia were suspected, for example. Autoimmune hemolytic anemia would present with pallor, fatigue, and signs of hemolysis (↓ haptoglobin, ↑ LDH, ↑ bilirubin). This patient does present with the laboratory signs of hemolysis, but, given his febrile illness and travel history to Botswana, he most likely has malaria, which cannot be diagnosed with a Coombs test.

**B - Blood culture** - Blood cultures can be used to diagnose typhoid fever, which is caused by Salmonella typhi and also presents with fever and abdominal symptoms. Typhoid patients typically have rose-colored spots on their lower chest and abdomen, relative bradycardia, diarrhea, and possibly neurological symptoms such as somnolence during their second week of infection. These clinical features are not present in this patient.

**C - Chest x-ray** - A chest x-ray is a useful test for detecting a variety of pulmonary pathologies, including pneumonia. Pneumonia classically presents with fever, malaise, productive cough, and dyspnea. This patient presents with inspiratory crackles and fever, but his renal symptoms, signs of hemolysis, and hepatomegaly with jaundice indicate a systemic process rather than one confined to his lungs. A chest x-ray will not confirm malaria.

**E - Abdominal ultrasound** - Abdominal ultrasound would be useful for diagnosing a liver abscess caused by amebiasis (E. histolytica), which would also present with fever and abdominal symptoms. However, his pulmonary and renal symptoms make severe malaria more likely. Ultrasound is not useful in the diagnosis of malaria.

**F - Serology** - Serological testing is useful in diagnosing a variety of infectious diseases such as dengue, which presents with fever and severe arthralgia and myalgia. It may lead to dengue hemorrhagic fever that causes bleeding due to thrombocytopenia. Although this patient presents with thrombocytopenia, fever, and malaise, he also has hemolysis and renal involvement, which make dengue an unlikely diagnosis.

