### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Phlebotomy** - In patients with polycythemia vera, periodic phlebotomy is performed to reduce cell counts and hyperviscosity. In addition to phlebotomy, treatment of PV may include antiplatelet prophylaxis with aspirin, as well as cytoreductive therapy with hydroxyurea and interferon-alpha.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Weight loss** - Weight loss can be beneficial for various conditions including obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). OSA may cause similar findings as seen here, such as obesity, tiredness, and increased RBC count due to elevated EPO secretion (secondary to chronic hypoxia). However, a history of restless sleep and irregular snoring with apneic episodes would be expected in patients with OSA. Also, increased EPO levels would not explain this patient's leukocytosis.

**B - Iron supplementation** - Iron supplementation is the treatment of choice in individuals with iron deficiency anemia. Patients typically present with fatigue, decreased serum ferritin and serum iron, as well as elevated or high-normal total iron binding capacity (TIBC), as seen here. However, iron deficiency typically leads to microcytic anemia (hypochromic) and decreased hemoglobin, which are absent in this patient.

**C - Imatinib** - Targeted therapy with tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib is the first-line treatment in leukemias associated with Philadelphia translocation, which includes > 90% of cases of CML. Common features of CML include fatigue, increased sweating, and leukocytosis. Pruritus and plethora, as seen in this patient, are not typical of CML. Also, affected individuals often have a much higher leukocyte count compared to this patient.

**D - Allogeneic stem cell transplantation** - Allogeneic stem cell transplantation is a potentially curative treatment option for various hematologic conditions, including CML, CLL, and myelofibrosis. This patient most likely suffers from PV, which is an incurable disorder. The primary goal in disease management involves controlling RBC mass and reducing the risk of thrombotic complications.

**E - Hydroxyurea** - Hydroxyurea is the first-line treatment for sickle cell disease. It can also be used as an adjunct cytoreductive treatment for PV in patients with high risk for thrombosis, including individuals > 60 years of age and/or with a history of thrombosis. Neither of these conditions apply to this patient.

**F - Inhaled budesonide** - Inhaled corticosteroids, e.g. budesonide, belong to the first-line treatment for patients with COPD. Chronic hypoxia in individuals with COPD may lead to increased secretion of EPO, resulting in elevated production of erythrocytes (secondary erythrocytosis). Although COPD is associated with increased EPO levels, this alone would not explain the leukocytosis seen in this patient.

