### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Streptococcus pneumoniae** - The spleen is important for the opsonization and elimination of encapsulated bacteria. Patients with sickle cell disease often develop functional asplenia by the age of 2–4 years due to repeated episodes of splenic infarction (autosplenectomy) and are therefore at increased risk for infections by encapsulated pathogens such as Streptococcus pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis, Haemophilus influenzae type b and Salmonella species. Of all the encapsulated pathogens, Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of community-acquired bacterial pneumonia and sepsis in patients with sickle cell disease.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Salmonella paratyphi** - Salmonella species are the most common cause of osteomyelitis in patients with sickle cell disease. Osteomyelitis can manifest with malaise, fever, and lethargy and progress to sepsis. However, this patient lacks localized findings (e.g., tenderness, swelling, redness, warmth), which makes osteomyelitis a less likely etiology of her sepsis.

**C - Neisseria meningitidis** - Patients with sickle cell disease are at increased risk of infection by Neisseria meningitidis, which is a capsulated organism that causes meningitis. However, Neisseria meningitidis would not cause pneumonia.

**D - Staphylococcus aureus** - Staphylococcus aureus can cause bacterial pneumonia, particularly in patients who have cystic fibrosis, alcohol use disorder, a history of IV drug use, or an immunocompromised status. However, S. aureus, which is an unencapsulated organism, is not the most common cause of pneumonia or sepsis in patients with sickle cell disease.

**E - Nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae** - Nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae, which are unencapsulated strains of H. influenzae, cause milder infections, such as otitis media, conjunctivitis, and bronchitis. They do not typically cause pneumonia or sepsis. Haemophilus influenzae type b, which is an encapsulated organism, is a common cause of pneumonia and sepsis in patients with sickle cell disease.

