### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Aortic valve replacement** - Aortic valve replacement is indicated for patients with severe aortic stenosis. Intravascular hemolysis is a relatively common finding in patients with moderate and severe aortic stenosis because high-velocity, turbulent blood flow near the stenotic valve results in shearing forces on the erythrocyte membrane. Hemolytic anemia would most likely resolve following aortic valve replacement.

Image File: 212-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60741bbe60505.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administration of corticosteroids** - Corticosteroids are indicated for patients with warm antibody autoimmune hemolytic anemia. However, patients with warm antibody hemolytic anemia would present with extravascular hemolysis instead of than intravascular hemolysis. A negative direct Coomb's test effectively rules out autoimmune hemolytic anemia.

**B - Administration of hydroxyurea** - Hydroxyurea is used to decrease the frequency and severity of sickle cell crises. A patient with sickle cell anemia may develop an acute chest syndrome characterized by acute shortness of breath and tachypnea (as seen here) due to sickling of erythrocytes within the pulmonary vasculature. The Coombs test would also be negative. However, sickle cell anemia usually results in extravascular hemolysis within the spleen. Intravascular hemolysis, as well as a loud systolic murmur in the right 2nd intercostal space, suggests a different diagnosis.

**C - Supplementation with iron** - Iron supplementation may be given to patients with hemolytic anemia who develop iron deficiency due to hemoglobinuria or hemosiderinuria following intravascular hemolysis. Because iron studies have not been conducted in this patient, it is uncertain as to whether or not iron deficiency is present.

**E - Discontinuation of medication** - Some medications may cause intravascular hemolysis, particularly in patients with G6PD deficiency. This patient takes simvastatin, lisinopril, and metformin, none of which are known to cause intravascular hemolysis. Medications known to trigger intravascular hemolysis in patients with G6PD deficiency include primaquine, dapsone, and sulfonamide antibiotics.

