### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, rituximab** - Chemotherapy of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab is appropriate for patients experiencing severe symptoms (e.g., extreme fatigue or painful lymph nodes) or those with signs of advanced disease (i.e., hepatosplenomegaly or thrombocytopenia) and who are < 65–70 years of age. It would be the preferred treatment for a 63-year-old man presenting with symptoms due to CLL.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Chlorambucil only** - Chlorambucil is commonly used to treat CLL in individuals > 65–70 years of age with poor overall fitness and comorbidities, which is not the case in this patient. To improve the chances of remission in an individual with CD20-positive lymphocytes, as is the case here, treatment should include a particular monoclonal antibody that targets B cells.

**B - Allogeneic stem cell transplantation** - Allogeneic stem cell transplantation can be considered in refractory CLL or early recurrence in otherwise healthy, young patients. This patient is already > 60 years old, presents with various symptoms, and the first-line medical treatment has not yet been tried.

**C - Vincristine, prednisone, and doxorubicin induction** - The combination of vincristine, glucocorticoids (prednisone), and doxorubicin is commonly used as induction therapy for patients with ALL. Clinical findings often include fatigue, pallor, hepatomegaly, and/or splenomegaly, as well as painless lymphadenopathy and B symptoms, which can be seen in this patient. However, patients with ALL are typically very young (peak incidence is 2–5 years) and laboratory studies would show a high number of lymphoblasts. Additionally, smudge cells on peripheral smear would not be expected.

**D - All-trans retinoic acid** - Vitamin A derivatives such as all-trans retinoic acid are used in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), the M3 variant of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). Clinical findings of individuals with acute leukemia commonly include B symptoms, fatigue, pallor, hepatomegaly, and splenomegaly, which may resemble this patient's presentation. APL would be confirmed by a peripheral blood smear showing immature blasts, often containing characteristic Auer rods, in contrast to the mature lymphocytes and smudge cells detected on this patient's blood smear.

**F - Observation and disease progression monitoring** - CLL is characterized by a slow rate of cell division and gradual disease progression. Treatment is often unnecessary or is unlikely to improve survival time, which is why observation and monitoring of disease progression usually suffice in cases of asymptomatic CLL. However, this patient has already presented with a number of clinical findings that are caused by CLL and could benefit from medical treatment as palliative therapy.

**G - Adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine** - The combination of adriamycin (doxorubicin), bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) is the first-line treatment for patients with Hodgkin lymphoma. Individuals usually present with painless lymphadenopathy, hepatomegaly, and/or splenomegaly and B symptoms, which may resemble the symptoms seen in this patient. However, this patient's peripheral smear has smudge cells, which are not consistent with Hodgkin lymphoma.

**H - Imatinib only** - The tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib is appropriate as first-line targeted therapy for patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) caused by a t(9,22) chromosome, also known as the Philadelphia chromosome. While CML is often asymptomatic and diagnosed incidentally in adults on routine CBC with the discovery of leukocytosis, the differential in the case of CML would show a left shift toward neutrophils and other granulocytes, in contrast to the lymphocytosis found on this patient's CBC differential.

