### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Mefloquine** - Mefloquine is the prophylactic medication of choice for pregnant women traveling to areas where P. falciparum is endemic and resistance to chloroquine is likely. Other options, e.g., doxycycline, are contraindicated during pregnancy due to adverse effects on the fetus.

Image File: 214-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e859f2f108cd.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Doxycycline** - Doxycycline can be used in areas where P. falciparum is prevalent and resistance to chloroquine is likely, e.g., Ethiopia. However, like all tetracyclines, it should be avoided during pregnancy because studies suggest an association with discoloration of deciduous teeth and higher rates of congenital abnormalities such as neural tube defects.

**B - Primaquine** - Primaquine can be used for pre-exposure prophylaxis against Plasmodium vivax and Plasmodium ovale, which are prevalent in some regions of Central and South America, Mexico, China, and Southeast Asia. However, the species prevalent in Sub-Saharan Africa (including Ethiopia) is P. falciparum, against which primaquine is less effective. In addition, primaquine can cause hemolysis in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Since fetal red cells are relatively deficient in G6PD, primaquine is contraindicated during pregnancy.

**D - Chloroquine** - Chloroquine is safe to use during pregnancy, but resistance is now widespread. The only areas where P. falciparum is not generally resistant to chloroquine are the Caribbean, Central America west of the Panama Canal, and some regions in the Middle East.

**E - Proguanil** - Proguanil is safe to use during pregnancy, but, given alone, it does not provide full coverage against P. falciparum, which is endemic in Ethiopia, due to drug resistance. In combination with atovaquone, proguanil would be a viable option for this patient.

