### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Hydroxyurea** - Hydroxyurea is the mainstay of management in patients with sickle cell disease because it reduces the incidence of acute vaso-occlusive episodes and improves survival. The mechanism of action of hydroxyurea is not entirely understood, but the agent likely stimulates erythropoiesis and increases fetal hemoglobin so that the amount of sickled hemoglobin is proportionally reduced.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Blood transfusions** - In patients with sickle cell disease, blood transfusions are indicated primarily for symptomatic treatment of acute complications (e.g., hemolytic, aplastic, or sequestration crises), preventing chronic complications (stroke), or before surgery. Recommendations vary among institution but are largely determined by decreases from the baseline Hb levels (typically between ∼ 7–11 mg/dL) and the patient's condition. For example, RBC transfusion may be considered after a fall of 2 mg/dL and/or if the patient has severe symptoms. This patient's history of recent fever and a lace-like rash suggests parvovirus B 19 infection, which is associated with an increased risk for aplastic anemia in patients with SCD. However, her normal leukocyte count and only moderate anemia make aplastic anemia unlikely.

**C - Regular red cell exchange transfusions** - Red cell exchange (RCE) transfusions are used in patients with sickle cell disease. However, they are typically used to treat acute life-threatening SCD complications such as ischemic stroke and are not considered a first-line or long-term treatment.

**D - Low-dose prednisone** - Corticosteroids are used in the treatment of rheumatological diseases (e.g., juvenile rheumatoid arthritis). These diseases can lead to low-grade fevers, rashes, and pain in the extremities. However, this patient's blood smear, acute onset of symptoms, lack of morning stiffness, and generalized swelling of both hands make a complication of sickle cell disease more likely.

Image File: 215-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f1eefaaa669c.jpg

**E - Prophylactic penicillin** - Although prophylactic penicillin would be indicated in this patient (and all other patients with sickle cell disease until the age of five), it would do nothing to prevent this patient's current ailment in the future, which is caused by vasoocclusions of the small bones of the hand rather than a bacterial infection.

**F - IV cefazolin** - Patients with sickle cell disease are at increased risk for osteomyelitis, which can be treated with IV cefazolin in children > 3 months. Although the condition is often difficult to distinguish from dactylitis, osteomyelitis typically affects only one bone or area and is unlikely to occur bilaterally. Additionally, cefazolin is used to treat an acute infection, not to prevent recurrences.

**G - Prophylactic oxycodone** - In patients with sickle cell disease oxycodone can be used to treat acute vasoocclusive pain. However, it would not prevent future vasoocclusive crises and therefore has no place in prophylactic treatment.

**H - Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine** - In patients with SCD, both pneumococcal vaccines (PCV13 and PPSV23) are indicated to prevent pneumococcal infections and their complications. The patient has likely already undergone vaccination with the conjugated type (PCV13) as part of her normal immunization schedule. PPSV23 is also recommended for children with SCD after they finish the PCV13 series and is thus indicated in this patient. However, the vaccine would not prevent this patient's current ailment, which is caused by vasoocclusions of the small bones of the hand rather than a pneumococcal infection.

