### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Hepatitis C antibody testing** - This patient's presentation is typical for ITP and the next step should be determining whether this is primary ITP (e.g., due to autoimmune platelet destruction) or secondary ITP (e.g., due to associated illness). Common causes of secondary ITP include autoimmune disease (e.g., SLE), medications, lymphoproliferative disorders, hepatitis C (HCV), and HIV. HCV screening is recommended in all patients suspected of having ITP and should be performed in this patient as part of her initial evaluation.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Blood cultures** - Blood cultures would be indicated for suspected sepsis, which can cause thrombocytopenia by direct bone marrow suppression, and should always be considered in the case of unexplained thrombocytopenia. However, this patient does not have any signs or symptoms of infection.

**B - D-dimer testing** - An elevated D-dimer in the correct clinical context would be concerning for disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), which can also cause thrombocytopenia. DIC classically presents with unexplained thrombosis or bleeding, and is associated with underlying infection, malignancy, and/or trauma. This patient's mild, intermittent bleeding and laboratory findings are consistent with ITP. D-dimer testing is not indicated.

**D - Bone marrow biopsy** - Bone marrow biopsy has many indications but is usually not required for the diagnosis of ITP, which this patient likely has. Bone marrow biopsy for ITP is only indicated in patients with suspected underlying myelodysplastic syndrome or leukemia to evaluate for treatment-resistant ITP, and/or when splenectomy is being considered. This patient does not meet any of these criteria.

**E - ADAMTS13 testing** - ADAMTS13 testing is indicated in patients with suspected thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). Although thrombocytopenia, petechiae, and purpura may all be seen in patients with TTP, this patient does not have additional characteristic findings, such as microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and impaired renal function. Therefore, ADAMTS13 testing is not indicated.

**F - Platelet aggregation testing** - Platelet aggregation testing may be helpful when a platelet dysfunction disorder due to liver dysfunction, uremia, or inherited disorders (e.g., Bernard-Soulier syndrome, Glanzmann thrombasthenia) is suspected. Because this patient's low platelet count and normal platelet morphology are consistent with ITP, platelet aggregation testing is not indicated.

