### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Intravenous hydration** - IV hydration is recommended for all patients at risk of developing tumor lysis syndrome. Patients receiving treatment for hematological malignancies with high cell turnover (e.g., leukemias or lymphomas) are especially at risk of developing TLS as a result of cell lysis. The condition is characterized by the massive release of intracellular components, such as potassium, phosphate, and uric acid, into the blood, which can cause acute urate nephropathy leading to acute kidney failure and death. Adequate hydration prior to receiving chemotherapy helps minimize kidney injury and symptoms.

Image File: 218-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5da87c48eb043.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Urine alkalinization** - Urine alkalinization with the use of acetazolamide or sodium bicarbonate was previously recommended as a measure to increase uric acid solubility and, consequently, decrease the risk of TLS. However, this intervention is no longer routinely recommended because of its unproven effectiveness and potential adverse effects.

**B - Corticosteroids** - Corticosteroids are used as adjunctive treatment in some cases of hematologic malignancies (e.g., lymphoma), but they do not have a role in the treatment of TLS.

**C - Rasburicase** - Rasburicase, a urate oxidase recombinant, is a drug that helps degrade uric acid, catalyzing it to a more soluble compound (allantoin). It is effective as an adjunctive measure for the prevention of tumor lysis syndrome, but it is not the most effective preventive measure.

**D - Allopurinol** - Allopurinol is a hypouricemic drug that is used as an adjunctive preventive measure for the prevention of urate nephropathy, which usually can occur as a sequela of TLS. Although it is useful in the management of this complication because it decreases uric acid formation, it is not the most effective first-line preventive measure for TLS in general.

