### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - No further management is indicated** - The management of ST-HUS primarily consists of supportive care (e.g., with fluid therapy) and frequent monitoring for anemia, thrombocytopenia, and fluid and electrolyte disturbances. Red blood cell transfusion is only administered for patients with severe anemia (typically ≤ 7 g/dL). Platelet transfusion should only be administered if there is severe thrombocytopenia (typically ≤ 10,000/mm3) and/or evidence of active bleeding. Indications for hemodialysis are the same as those for patients with other causes of acute kidney injury and include metabolic acidosis with pH < 7.1, refractory electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyperkalemia), symptomatic uremia, and severe fluid overload.

Complement dysregulation (e.g., due to gene mutations or autoantibodies to complement factors) is a less common cause for HUS (non-ST-HUS) but screening for complement dysregulation in patients with HUS is not routinely performed.

Question Difficulty: 0

** Other Answers: **

**A - Initiate plasma exchange therapy** - Plasma exchange therapy is used to treat thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), which can manifest with thrombocytopenia, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, acute kidney injury, and fatigue. However, fever and neurologic symptoms (e.g., confusion, headache) are also often present. Most importantly, ADAMTS13 activity is decreased in patients with TTP. This patient has ST-HUS, for which plasma exchange therapy is not usually indicated.

**C - Perform a renal biopsy** - A renal biopsy may be performed in patients with acute kidney injury in whom the underlying etiology is uncertain after noninvasive evaluation. This patient with a recent history of diarrheal illness presents with the classic triad of HUS, for which a renal biopsy is unnecessary.

**D - Administer ciprofloxacin** - Fluoroquinolones, such as ciprofloxacin, can be used for the treatment of severe bacterial diarrhea (e.g., associated with high fever). However, antibiotics should not be used in patients with positive stool testing for Shiga toxin because antibiotic treatment may precipitate or worsen HUS. Moreover, this patient's diarrhea has already subsided. For patients with ST-HUS, antibiotic treatment is only indicated for patients with extrarenal sequela of the condition (e.g., pneumonia).

**E - Administer prednisone and intravenous immunoglobulins** - Prednisone in combination with intravenous immunoglobulins is the treatment of choice for patients with immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) and life-threatening bleeding or acute neurologic features. While ITP can manifest with thrombocytopenia following an acute illness, this condition is typically triggered by a viral infection rather than a toxin-mediated diarrheal illness. Moreover, ITP does not cause hemolytic anemia or acute kidney injury. This patient has ST-HUS, for which treatment with prednisone and immunoglobulins is not indicated.

