### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Delayed sleep-wake disorder** - This patient with a 6-month history of delayed sleep onset and daytime sleepiness on school days feels rested on the weekends after sleeping according to his sleep schedule. This makes delayed sleep-wake disorder, a circadian rhythm sleep-wake disorder, the most likely diagnosis, which is consistent with the typical onset of this condition during adolescence and in male individuals.

Several factors (genetic and environmental) most likely play a role in the development of delayed sleep-wake disorder. Treatment of this condition requires a multimodal approach that includes nonpharmacological measures such as sleep hygiene adherence, avoidance of bright light in the evening, and morning light exposure. In addition, pharmacological measures such as melatonin administration can be used.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Psychophysiologic insomnia** - Psychophysiologic insomnia is a learned sleep-preventing condition that results in a state of increased arousal. Patients present with excessive anxiety about not getting enough sleep that increases in intensity as time passes while they lie awake in bed. Although this patient often worries that he does not get enough sleep, his worries are not persistent and it is not his main symptom.

**C - Advanced sleep-wake disorder** - Advanced sleep-wake disorder is a circadian rhythm sleep-wake disorder associated with old age. Unlike the condition of this patient, advanced sleep phase disorder presents with earlier than desired sleep onset and awakening times.

**D - Irregular sleep-wake disorder** - Irregular sleep-wake disorder is a rare circadian rhythm sleep-wake disorder, in which there is no clear sleep or wake pattern. Patients have normal total sleep time broken down into numerous naps throughout a 24-hour period. It is often associated with brain disorders. This patient has constant pattern of sleep onset with no daytime naps, making this diagnosis unlikely.

**E - Non-24 h sleep-wake disorder** - Non-24 hour sleep-wake disorder is a circadian rhythm disorder in which the circadian period is longer than 24 hours. Patients successively fall asleep later and later each night until periods of temporary alignment with the normal 24-hour cycle occurs, but then the cycle of progressive delay repeats itself. This patient has no progressive delay in his sleep time.

**F - Inadequate sleep hygiene** - Inadequate sleep hygiene can cause insomnia. However, this patient takes no daytime naps, drinks no coffee after lunch, and goes to bed at a set time, all of which suggest good sleep hygiene.

