### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Viral infection** - This patient's anemia is most likely due to an infection with parvovirus B19, which is commonly associated with a transient cessation of erythropoiesis. In otherwise healthy individuals, red blood cells (RBCs) have a long lifespan and clinically relevant drops in hemoglobin are very rare. Patients with underlying hemolytic anemias such as sickle cell disease and hereditary spherocytosis, however, have RBCs with a decreased lifespan. In these patient, the transient cessation of erythropoiesis may result in an acute, severe drop in hemoglobin with associated reticulocytopenia (i.e., transient aplastic crisis, TAC). TAC is usually self-limited and reticulocyte production recurs within a few days.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Dysfunctional erythrocyte membrane proteins** - Dysfunctional erythrocyte membrane proteins (e.g., ankyrin, spectrin) are seen in patients with hereditary spherocytosis. Like sickle cell disease, hereditary spherocytosis may also present with aplastic crisis, as seen in this patient. However, hereditary spherocytosis is not known to be a cause of aplastic crisis in patients with sickle cell disease.

**B - Splenic sequestration crisis** - Splenic sequestration crisis usually presents with acute-onset severe anemia, as in this patient. However, unlike in this patient, anemia in splenic sequestration crisis is associated with an increased reticulocyte count. Additionally, patients characteristically have acute left upper quadrant pain (due to rapid enlargement of the spleen) and signs of intravascular volume depletion (e.g., severe hypotension) due to the trapping of blood in the spleen; these features are not seen in this patient. Lastly, splenic sequestration crisis primarily affects infants and young children; older children and adults with SCD often have a non-functional, atrophic spleen because of years of damage from sickle cells, making this an unlikely diagnosis.

**C - Hyperhemolysis** - Patients with hyperhemolysis present with acute onset anemia, as in this patient. However, they do not have bone marrow suppression and their reticulocyte count is therefore increased in order to compensate for the decreased hemoglobin.

**E - Adverse effect of medication** - Medication-induced hemolysis is commonly seen in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Drugs that may lead to hemolysis include antimalarial drugs (e.g., chloroquine, primaquine), sulfa drugs (e.g., trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole), nitrofurantoin, isoniazid, dapsone, NSAIDs, ciprofloxacin, and chloramphenicol. Patients often present with an acute drop in hemoglobin. However, in contrast to this patient, hemolytic anemia is usually associated with an increased reticulocyte count. Moreover, this patient did not receive any of the previously mentioned medications and has a history of sickle cell disease.

