### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Cis deletion of α-globin genes** - This patient's findings are consistent with the minor form of alpha thalassemia, which is caused by two defective alleles of genes that encode α-globin chains (-α/-α or --/αα); cis deletion is common in Asian populations. While deletion of one out of four alleles results in disease that is clinically silent, the deletion of two alleles reduces α-globin levels enough to cause mild symptoms. Deletion of three or four alleles of the α-globin gene causes aberrant hemoglobin formation (i.e., β4 or γ4) that would be visible on hemoglobin electrophoresis and causes more severe clinical symptoms.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Decreased production of β-globin proteins** - Decreased production of β-globin proteins occurs due to mutations in the promoter sites of the β-globin gene and is seen in β-thalassemia. Patients with a homozygous mutation (β-thalassemia major) may have skeletal deformities, hepatosplenomegaly, and severe anemia starting at 6 months of age. Heterozygous mutations (β-thalassemia minor), on the other hand, cause mild or asymptomatic microcytic anemia with normal serum ferritin levels and a peripheral blood smear similar to this patient. In β-thalassemia minor, however, abnormal hemoglobin (HbA2) would be seen on the hemoglobin electrophoresis.

**B - Amino acid substitution in the β-globin protein** - Substitution of glutamic acid with valine at the sixth amino acid of the β-globin protein causes sickle cell anemia. This patient's normal hemoglobin electrophoresis, peripheral blood smear findings, and lack of signs of chronic hemolysis on physical examination (i.e., jaundice, scleral icterus) make sickle cell anemia very unlikely.

**D - Inadequate intake of iron** - Iron deficiency can cause microcytic, hypochromic anemia with normal hemoglobin electrophoresis, which is seen in this patient. Patients with iron deficiency anemia, however, typically have increased RDW (due to decreased RBC production) and decreased ferritin. This patient's normal serum ferritin is indicative of adequate iron reserves.

**E - Acquired inhibition of heme synthesis** - Acquired inhibition of the heme synthesis pathway is commonly caused by lead toxicity. Chronic lead poisoning inhibits the function of multiple enzymes of the heme synthesis pathway (ferrochelatase and ALA dehydratase), which can also manifest with microcytic anemia and normal electrophoresis. However, chronic exposure would also manifest with neurological symptoms such as paresthesia, foot drop, and encephalopathy or other clinical symptoms such as intestinal colics or a Burton line. Moreover, peripheral blood smear would show an increased RDW and basophilic stippling, which are not seen in this patient.

