### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Imatinib therapy** - In patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, overactive tyrosine kinase leads to the excessive proliferation of myeloid progenitor cells. The first-line therapy for CML is a targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor, such as imatinib.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - All-trans-retinoic acid therapy** - Vitamin A derivatives such as all-trans retinoic acid are used in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia, a subtype of AML. Clinical symptoms can include B symptoms and splenomegaly. However, laboratory studies would typically show a higher percentage of myeloblasts, absence of intermediate stages of differentiation in the neutrophilic series (leukemic hiatus) and thrombocytopenia.

**B - Rituximab therapy** - Rituximab can be used in the treatment of various conditions including CD20+ CLL. Typical clinical findings in CLL include B symptoms and splenomegaly but also painless lymphadenopathy. Laboratory studies would also show lymphocytosis in CBC and smudge cells on peripheral blood smear.

**C - Low-dose aspirin therapy** - Low-dose aspirin therapy is used for various conditions, such as essential thrombocythemia (ET) to prevent thromboembolisms. Individuals with ET might also present with thrombocytosis (> 600,000/μL) and splenomegaly; however, they would typically present with thromboembolic events. Gingival bleeding indicates that the majority of newly formed platelets do not function properly. Treatment with aspirin is contraindicated in this patient, as it increases his risk for bleeding complications.

**D - Phlebotomy** - In patients with polycythemia vera (PV), periodic phlebotomy is performed to reduce cell counts and hyperviscosity. Individuals with PV may also present with splenomegaly, mucosal bleeding, and B symptoms. However, clinical features would typically include neurological symptoms, plethora, and/or pruritus, as well as an elevation in all cell lines, in contrast to this patient's anemia.

**E - Vincristine, prednisone, and asparaginase therapy** - Combination treatment with vincristine, prednisone, and asparaginase is typically used for the induction therapy of patients with Philadelphia chromosome-negative acute lymphocytic leukemia. Acute leukemias may present with similar symptoms as seen in this patient, including B symptoms and splenomegaly. However, patients with ALL are typically very young (peak 2–5 years) and present with painless lymphadenopathy. Laboratory studies would usually show a high number of lymphoblasts and thrombocytopenia.

**F - Cytarabine and daunorubicin therapy** - A combination of cytarabine and anthracyclines (e.g., daunorubicin) is the common induction therapy for patients with acute myelogenous leukemia. Acute leukemias may present with similar symptoms as seen in this patient, including B symptoms and splenomegaly. However, in patients with AML, laboratory studies would typically show a higher percentage of myeloblasts, an absence of intermediate stages of differentiation in the myeloid series (leukemic hiatus), and thrombocytopenia, which is not the case here.

**G - Allogeneic stem cell transplantation** - In cases of CML, curative allogeneic stem cell transplantation may be performed in young patients without major comorbidities, and/or in individuals who do not benefit from the first-line treatment. This patient has not yet received first-line treatment for CML.

