### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Escherichia coli infection** - This child presents with thrombocytopenia, signs of hemolysis (normocytic anemia, ↑ LDH, indirect hyperbilirubinemia, schistocytes), and renal dysfunction (hematuria, proteinuria, ↑ BUN, and ↑ creatinine), which is a triad indicative of hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS). The Shiga-toxin-producing O157:H7 strain of enterohemorrhagic E. coli (STEC) is the most common cause of pediatric HUS (90% of cases). The illness is often preceded by a prodrome of vomiting and diarrhea, decreased urine output, and lethargy. Diagnosis is based on characteristic clinical and laboratory findings. Treatment of HUS is supportive (e.g., IV fluids and antipyretics) and does NOT include antibiotics, as these can paradoxically worsen illness. Dialysis is often required, and in refractory cases, plasmapheresis may be considered.

Image File: 226-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_592547b36efe0.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Acute lymphocytic leukemia** - Children with acute lymphocytic leukemia would likely have an elevated WBC count, anemia, and thrombocytopenia, as seen in this patient. However, the history of diarrhea in addition to the laboratory findings indicating hemolysis (↑ LDH, indirect hyperbilirubinemia, schistocytes) and kidney dysfunction (hematuria, proteinuria, ↑ BUN, and ↑ creatinine) makes this diagnosis less likely.

Image File: 226-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5911bde68e8a9.jpg

**C - Parvovirus B19 infection** - Parvovirus B19 commonly causes erythema infectiosum in children, which presents with a classic slapped cheek rash. Rarely, infection can cause aplastic anemia, which would present with pancytopenia. Leukopenia significantly increases risk for infection, which could then cause systemic illness (e.g., diarrhea, fever, and possible end-organ damage). While this patient has a likely recent infection with Parvovirus B19 and she has thrombocytopenia, anemia, and leukocytosis, schistocytes on peripheral blood smear indicate hemolytic, rather than aplastic, anemia.

Image File: 226-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57c95841c8da9.jpg

**D - Disseminated intravascular coagulation** - Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) results from complicated severe illness (e.g., sepsis) and is characterized by systemic clotting factor activation, platelet consumption, and intravascular hemolysis. Affected patients present with thrombosis, embolism, bleeding (e.g., petechiae), signs of organ dysfunction (e.g., acute kidney injury), thrombocytopenia, and signs of hemolytic anemia (e.g., schistocytes, anemia, ↑ LDH). Although this patient similar clinical findings may suggest DIC, her normal vital signs do not indicate that she has sepsis or other current severe infection that would be expected with DIC. Additionally, patients with DIC typically have a more severe coagulopathy than in this patient. Lastly, the very recent gastrointestinal infection is a classic presentation for another diagnosis.

**E - Immune thrombocytopenic purpura** - Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is a diagnosis of exclusion that presents with isolated thrombocytopenia due to autoimmunity against platelets or as a drug side effect. Patients are generally well, but sometimes present with petechiae/mucosal bleeding. While this patient is thrombocytopenic, she appears ill and has a variety of other physical exam and laboratory abnormalities that would not be seen in ITP.

Image File: 226-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5272a95b92ad8.jpg

**F - Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura** - Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is a thrombotic microangiopathy caused by deficiency of ADAMTS13, and typically affects previously healthy adults. The clinical and laboratory features of TTP include thrombocytopenia, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, neurologic deficits (often altered mental status), kidney impairment, and fever. While this patient has thrombocytopenia, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, kidney impairment, and fever, she is younger than would be expected in TTP and lacks neurologic deficits.

