### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Medication side effect** - A rare but important side effect of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) is agranulocytosis, which is thought to be mediated by direct toxicity of TMP (or its metabolites) to granulocytes, particularly neutrophils, meaning patients are at an increased risk of infection. This patient's presentation of headache, rhinorrhea, fever, sinus tenderness, and cervical lymphadenopathy is consistent with acute bacterial sinusitis. Considering that this patient presents with acutely reduced ANC shortly after starting TMP-SMX, a medication side effect is most likely.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Primary autoimmune neutropenia** - Primary autoimmune neutropenia is characterized by low absolute neutrophil counts (0–150/mm3) and causes recurrent infections due to immunocompromise, typically in girls under 2 years of age. Confirmatory diagnosis requires demonstration of neutrophil-specific antibodies. This patient has had two recent infections, but his neutrophil count is 812/mm3 and the condition is very rare, and even more so in a 6-year-old boy. His history suggests that another diagnosis is more likely.

**B - Folate deficiency** - Folate deficiency is a dose-related side effect of trimethoprim and sulfonamides which may cause leukopenia, including isolated granulocytopenia, and megaloblastic anemia. Although this patient's laboratory studies show leukopenia with isolated neutropenia, his hemoglobin concentration is within the reference range, making folate deficiency unlikely.

**D - Acute lymphocytic leukemia** - Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) is the most common pediatric malignancy and typically causes an insidious onset of fevers, fatigue, and pallor. Lymphadenopathy is often present as well. Further workup shows neutropenia accompanied by anemia and thrombocytopenia due to bone marrow invasion from the neoplastic cells. Although this patient presents with some clinical features of ALL (fever and lymphadenopathy), his isolated neutropenia with normal platelets and RBCs makes this diagnosis less likely.

**E - CMV infection** - CMV infections can be devastating in profoundly immunocompromised patients. Although this patient has leukopenia, his WBC count is not low enough for severe CMV infection to be likely. Immunocompetent patients, on the other hand, may develop a mononucleosis-like syndrome (CMV mononucleosis). However, CMV does not explain this patient's rhinosinusitis or neutropenia.

**F - EBV infection** - Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is highly contagious and causes mononucleosis, which causes fatigue, fever, cervical lymphadenopathy, pharyngitis, splenomegaly, rash, and lymphocytosis with > 10% atypical lymphocytes. Although this patient does have a low-grade fever and lymphadenopathy, the lack of pharyngitis suggests another diagnosis. Moreover, EBV does not cause sinusitis or leukopenia.

**G - Acute myelogenous leukemia** - Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) causes anemia, thrombocytopenia, and leukocytosis. Leukocytosis results from the proliferation of malignant, yet non-functional, white blood cells. Bone marrow invasion with neoplastic cells causes thrombocytopenia and anemia. Clinical features of AML are diverse, but often include fatigue, low-grade fever, dyspnea (from anemia), and recurrent upper respiratory infections. Most importantly, AML is typically a disease of old age, with the median age of onset being 70 years. Given that this patient has leukopenia (not leukocytosis) without other cell lines being affected and he is much younger than the typical age of diagnosis, AML is unlikely.

