### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Vancomycin, cefepime, and caspofungin** - Combination therapy with vancomycin, cefepime, and caspofungin is an appropriate empiric antimicrobial therapy for patients with a femoral CRBSI. As gram-positive organisms (coagulase-negative staphylococci, Staphylococcus aureus, and enterococci) are the most common pathogens that cause CRBSI, gram-positive antibiotic coverage is warranted for all patients with CRBSI; vancomycin is usually recommended because of the high prevalence of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) in health care settings. Compared to subclavian and jugular CRBSI, there is a higher risk of CRBSI caused by Candida spp. or gram-negative bacilli in femoral CRBSI due to the risk of colonization in this region. Therefore, gram-negative coverage (including for Pseudomonas aeruginosa) with a fourth-generation cephalosporin (e.g., cefepime) or a carbapenem as well as Candida spp. coverage with an echinocandin (e.g., caspofungin) is indicated. In patients with subclavian and jugular CRBSI, vancomycin alone is the most appropriate empiric therapy.

Catheter removal is warranted in patients with sepsis and hemodynamic instability (such as this patient), endocarditis, suppurative thrombophlebitis, or persistent bacteremia despite > 72 hours of appropriate antimicrobial therapy against the causative pathogen. The catheter should also be removed in patients with CRBSI due to multi-drug resistant gram-negative bacteria, S. aureus, fungi, or mycobacteria.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Linezolid, ceftazidime, and gentamicin** - Combination therapy with linezolid, ceftazidime, and gentamicin is an acceptable empiric antibiotic regimen for ventilator-associated pneumonia. This patient, however, has no signs to suggest pneumonia; he most likely has a femoral CRBSI. Although linezolid provides coverage against gram-positive organisms (including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus), and ceftazidime and gentamicin cover gram-negative bacteria (including Pseudomonas aeruginosa), empiric antimicrobial therapy for femoral CRBSI should also cover Candida spp.

**B - Piperacillin-tazobactam** - Piperacillin-tazobactam provides coverage against gram-positive and gram-negative (including Pseudomonas aeruginosa) organisms, two of the most common types of pathogens that cause femoral CRBSI. However, piperacillin-tazobactam has no coverage against Candida spp. or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and is, therefore, not the best choice for this patient.

**D - Levofloxacin and metronidazole** - Combination therapy with levofloxacin and metronidazole is used as empiric antimicrobial therapy for surgical site infections in a clean-contaminated wound or a clean wound in the perineal region. This patient's wound, however, is considered a clean surgical wound and shows no signs of infection. This patient most likely has a femoral CRBSI, for which combination therapy with levofloxacin and metronidazole is not appropriate; although levofloxacin has gram-negative and partial gram-positive coverage, it does not cover methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus or Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Moreover, anaerobic bacteria, which metronidazole covers, are rarely implicated in CRBSI.

**E - Ampicillin and cefotaxime** - Ampicillin and cefotaxime are used in the empiric treatment of neonatal meningitis. Although this regimen covers gram-positive and some gram-negative bacteria, it does not cover methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, or Candida spp., all of which are common causative pathogens of femoral CRBSI.

**F - Daptomycin** - Daptomycin provides coverage against gram-positive organisms, which are the most common causative pathogens of CRBSI. However, in patients with femoral CRBSI, gram-negative bacteria and Candida spp. should also be covered by empiric antimicrobial therapy. Daptomycin is only indicated for empirical gram-positive coverage in settings where vancomycin's minimum inhibitory concentration is > 2 μg/mL for the majority of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus isolates.

