### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Von Willebrand disease** - Von Willebrand disease occurs when there is a deficiency or defect in von Willebrand factor (vWF). The deficiency hinders the ability of platelets to adhere to subendothelial collagen and inhibits platelet activation, which leads to a prolonged bleeding time. PT and PTT are generally normal in patients with this condition because the clotting factors are unaffected. However, factor VIII is bound to vWF in the blood to prevent rapid breakdown. Thus, if vWD is severe enough, factor VIII may also be deficient and cause a prolonged PTT, as in this patient.

Desmopressin is the treatment of choice for vWD types 1 and 2 because it stimulates vWF release from endothelial cells. It is not an effective treatment in type 3, which has a complete absence of vWF.

Image File: 229-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d5fb1f04aa24.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bernard-Soulier Syndrome** - Bernard-Soulier Syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder that leads to platelet dysfunction. It is often asymptomatic, but can present with epistaxis, easy bruising, prolonged bleeding time and either a low or normal platelet count. However, it would not cause the prolonged PTT seen in this patient.

**B - Disseminated intravascular coagulation** - DIC is a consumption coagulopathy that most commonly occurs due to sepsis, trauma, or malignancy. It has a variable presentation, but usually occurs acutely rather than chronically. Also, lab values of low platelets, prolonged bleeding time, elevated PT, and elevated PTT would be expected, but this individual only has two of these four factors.

**C - Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome** - Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome is an x-linked immunodeficiency that causes T-cell dysfunction, as well as thrombocytopenia. Manifestations of the disease typically involve immunologic findings (e.g., eczema, TTP, and recurrent opportunistic infections), which are all absent in this individual. It can present with a prolonged bleeding time, but a low platelet count would be expected.

**D - Hemophilia A** - Hemophilia A, an x-linked recessive disease with factor VIII deficiency, also presents very similarly to this individual (recurrent epistaxis, an episode of heavy bleeding following tooth extraction, and bruises). Since factor VIII is deficient, prolonged PTT is expected. However, bleeding time would be normal since platelets are unaffected.

Image File: 229-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d972fcf0397c.jpg

**E - Factor X deficiency** - Factor X deficiency is a rare, autosomal recessive disease or can also be acquired from liver disease or vitamin K deficiency. It can also present with recurrent epistaxis and easy bruising. However, labs will show both an elevated PT and PTT due to factor X's involvement in the common pathway of the coagulation cascade. Additionally, bleeding time would be normal since platelets are unaffected.

Image File: 229-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d972fcf0397c.jpg

**F - Glanzmann thrombasthenia** - Glanzmann thrombasthenia is an autosomal recessive disorder that prevents platelet aggregation. It typically presents with mucosal bleeding (e.g. epistaxis), which is similar to the patient above. Upon lab evaluation, the only abnormality in this condition is a prolonged bleeding time, with all other tests being normal. The prolonged PTT in the patient above makes this diagnosis unlikely.

