### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Electroconvulsive therapy** - Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is indicated in patients with severe major depressive disorder (MDD) that present with life-threatening signs and symptoms (e.g., active suicidal ideation/intent, attempted suicide, severe psychosis, malnutrition due to food refusal) as it provides a much faster response than pharmacotherapy. Elderly patients with MDD such as this woman frequently have multiple contraindications to psychiatric drugs or do not tolerate them well, making ECT preferred in this population. Furthermore, elderly patients with MDD are more responsive to ECT compared to pharmacotherapy and improve quicker than younger patients after ECT. Other indications for ECT include MDD in pregnant women, MDD refractory to pharmacotherapy, schizophrenia, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, schizoaffective disorder, and bipolar disorder. There are no absolute contraindications for ECT and it is safe in patients with pacemakers and other automatic implantable devices.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Amitriptyline and olanzapine therapy** - Amitriptyline and olanzapine are often used in combination as first-line therapy for patients with MDD with psychotic features. However, this 71-year-old woman's severely impaired functionality and life-threatening presentation (malnutrition due to food refusal, active suicidal ideation and intent, attempted suicide) require a faster, more effective treatment. Additionally, tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided in elderly patients due to their side-effect profile (e.g., anticholinergic effects).

**B - Transcranial magnetic stimulation therapy** - Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) therapy can be considered in patients with major depressive disorder who fail to respond to initial therapy with antidepressants. However, TMS is contraindicated in patients with pacemakers. Moreover, her severely impaired functionality and life-threatening presentation (malnutrition due to food refusal, active suicidal ideation and intent, attempted suicide) require a faster, more effective treatment.

**C - Fluoxetine therapy** - Fluoxetine is an antidepressant that is used as a first-line therapy in patients with MDD. However, this patient's psychotic features (i.e., delusions of guilt) indicate a diagnosis of MDD with psychotic features, for which fluoxetine is not given alone but rather in combination with an antipsychotic. Moreover, SSRIs such as fluoxetine take weeks to months before being effective and this patient's severely impaired functionality and life-threatening signs (malnutrition due to food refusal, active suicidal ideation and intent, attempted suicide) require a faster, more effective treatment.

**D - Acceptance-based depression and psychosis therapy** - Acceptance-based depression and psychosis therapy can be used as adjunctive therapy in MDD with psychotic features. However, this patient's severely impaired functionality and life-threatening presentation (malnutrition due to food refusal, active suicidal ideation and intent, attempted suicide) require a faster, more effective treatment.

**F - Lithium therapy** - Lithium is used as first-line therapy in bipolar disorder, which can manifest with insomnia and psychotic features (e.g., mood-congruent delusions). Although this 71-year-old woman presents with both of these features, she does not meet the criteria for a manic episode or a hypomanic episode. In MDD with psychotic features lithium can be used as adjunctive therapy in individuals refractory to initial pharmacotherapy, but it is not part of the standard first-line treatment.

