### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Ascorbic acid therapy** - Acquired methemoglobinemia is a rare blood disorder most commonly caused by exposure to exogenous substances that increase methemoglobin (MetHb) levels, such as dapsone, nitroglycerin, sulfonamides, and inhaled nitric oxide. Apart from discontinuing the offending medication, intravenous methylene blue is the first-line treatment for methemoglobinemia. However, it is contraindicated in patients with G6PD deficiency and those taking serotonergic drugs (e.g., fluoxetine), because it may precipitate hemolysis and/or serotonin syndrome. In those patients, ascorbic acid is the drug of choice. In patients who fail to respond to pharmacotherapy, exchange transfusion or hyperbaric oxygen therapy should be considered.

The diagnosis is based on characteristic pulse oximetry and blood gas analysis findings (reduced oxygen saturation and total oxygen content with normal PaO2) and confirmed on co-oximetry, which detects the presence and amount of MetHb in the blood. MetHb levels can also be initially estimated based on the patient's clinical presentation. This patient's cyanosis and respiratory distress suggest an approximate MetHb level of > 20%.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Sodium thiosulfate therapy** - Sodium thiosulfate therapy is used for the treatment of cyanide poisoning, which can manifest with respiratory distress and cyanosis, as observed in this patient. However, cyanide poisoning is characterized by normal oxygen saturation levels and acidosis (lactic acidosis; due to tissue hypoxia), whereas this patient's oxygen saturation is abnormal and he has (respiratory) alkalosis. In addition, he has no known history of cyanide exposure (e.g., house fires, sodium nitroprusside use, amygdalin ingestion).

**B - Hyperbaric oxygen therapy** - Hyperbaric oxygen is used for severe carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning, which can manifest with weakness and respiratory distress, and normal pO2 on blood gas analysis. However, patients with CO poisoning will have acidosis, rather than alkalosis, and pulse oximetry typically shows normal or elevated, rather than decreased oxygen saturation. In addition, this patient has no known history of CO exposure (e.g., house fire, wood-burning stove, motor vehicle exhaust). It is important to note that hyperbaric oxygen may be used in patients with methemoglobinemia refractory to other first-line treatment options. Nevertheless, it would not be the most appropriate treatment at this point.

**C - Hemodialysis** - Hemodialysis is used to treat patients with medication overdose (e.g., lithium, salicylates) or methanol, ethylene glycol, or isopropyl alcohol poisoning who have severe metabolic acidosis and/or renal failure. This patient has no history of exposure to any of the aforementioned substances. His recent treatment with dapsone together with his clinical and laboratory findings suggest methemoglobinemia, and hemodialysis cannot filter red blood cells, where methemoglobin is found.

**E - Dimercaprol therapy** - Dimercaprol therapy is used for the treatment of acute heavy metal poisoning (e.g., lead, arsenic, mercury), which typically manifests with gastrointestinal findings (e.g., nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain) and/or neurologic symptoms (e.g., headache, ataxia, cognitive impairment), none of which are seen here. In addition, this patient has no known history of exposure to heavy metals.

