### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Absence of reduced glutathione** - An absence of reduced glutathione is responsible for hemolytic anemia in patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency. This key enzyme of the pentose phosphate pathway is especially important for the production of NADPH in RBCs. Without it, NADPH levels sink and glutathione cannot be regenerated, leaving the RBCs more susceptible to the oxidative stress induced by many drugs, including isoniazid.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Crescent-shaped erythrocytes** - Crescent, or sickle-shaped erythrocytes are found in sickle cell disease, which is caused by mutations in the gene for the hemoglobin β-chain. The mutation affects the shape and the flexibility of RBCs, which can lead to hemolytic anemia, as seen in this patient. Additionally, it predominantly affects individuals of African and East Mediterranean (e.g., Greek) descent. However, SCD manifests in early childhood, and this patient would have a history of acute hemolytic crisis and progressive organ damage (e.g., spleen, kidney).

**B - Absence of β-globin** - An absence of the hemoglobin β-chain characterizes beta-thalassemia major, which often presents with severe hemolytic anemia (↓ haptoglobin, ↑ LDH, ↑ indirect bilirubin), as seen in this patient, and is most commonly seen in people of Southern European descent. However, hepatosplenomegaly, growth retardation, and skeletal deformities (high forehead, prominent zygomatic bones and maxilla) would be present starting in early childhood, which is not the case in this patient.

**C - Presence of cold agglutinins** - Cold agglutinins are cold-reactive autoantibodies that lead to an increased turnover of RBCs, resulting in hemolytic anemia, as seen in this patient. However, cold agglutinin disease typically develops in response to exposure to cold temperatures and leads to acrocyanosis of the fingers, toes, and nose. Additionally, patients are typically older than 60 or develop cold agglutinin disease secondary to Mycoplasma pneumoniae infections or infectious mononucleosis. None of these features are observed in this patient.

**E - Inhibition of aminolevulinate dehydratase** - Inhibition of aminolevulinate dehydratase is observed in lead poisoning and leads to impaired heme biosynthesis. This patient's occupation puts him at potential risk of lead exposure if he works with old pipes. Chronic lead exposure can cause microcytic anemia, while acute lead poisoning can lead to hemolytic anemia, as seen in this patient. However, other typical symptoms, e.g. abdominal pain, muscle weakness, and paresthesias, would also be present.

**F - Absence of uridine 5'-monophosphate** - Concentrations of uridine 5'-monophosphate (UMP) are reduced or absent altogether in orotic aciduria, a rare autosomal recessive disorder involving a defect in UMP synthase. It typically presents with megaloblastic anemia, as formation of RBCs is impaired. Therefore, typical signs of hemolytic anemia (e.g. scleral icterus,↑ unconjugated bilirubin) would not be present. Instead, orotic aciduria is often associated with delays in physical and intellectual development.

**G - Defective ankyrin in the RBC membrane** - Ankyrin is one of the proteins in the membrane of RBCs that can cause hereditary spherocytosis if defective (also spectrin, among others). This congenital hemolytic disorder is characterized by anemia, jaundice, and splenomegaly. Findings of hemolytic anemia (↑ unconjugated bilirubin, ↓ haptoglobin, ↑ LDH) may be present. While symptom onset and presentations vary, the disease typically begins in early childhood. Additionally, hereditary spherocytosis is most common among individuals of Northern European descent.

