### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Ruxolitinib** - Ruxolitinib is a JAK 2 inhibitor that is used to treat patients with primary myelofibrosis who have severe constitutional symptoms and/or symptomatic splenomegaly and cannot undergo allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Given this patient's age and comorbidities, stem cell transplantation would be contraindicated and he would be most likely to benefit from medical treatment. While ruxolitinib does not affect the risk of transformation to acute myeloid leukemia, it does relieve constitutional symptoms and reduces splenomegaly.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cladribine** - Since it is effective in reducing platelet and leukocyte counts, cladribine can be used to treat patients who are in the hyperproliferative phase of primary myelofibrosis. However, this patient presents with cytopenia and bone marrow aspiration shows a dry tap. This indicates he is already in the pancytopenic phase, meaning this drug would not be appropriate.

**B - Rituximab** - Rituximab is a component of treatment for non-Hodgkin lymphomas that are positive for monoclonal CD-20 B cells. Most notably, it is used to treat patients diagnosed with CLL who are not eligible for stem cell transplantation (i.e., > 65–70 years with poor overall fitness and comorbidities). CLL could explain this patient's constitutional symptoms, splenomegaly, and cytopenia. However, painless, generalized lymphadenopathy and blasts in the peripheral blood smear would also be expected. Furthermore, bone marrow aspiration would show hypercellularity rather than dry tap and the JAK 2 mutation is not a diagnostic marker for CLL.

**C - Prednisone** - Prednisone can be administered in combination with low-dose thalidomide or lenalidomide in patients with primary myelofibrosis to manage anemia and improve leukocyte and platelet counts. However, thalidomide and lenalidomide are associated with numerous adverse effects (drowsiness, constipation, paresthesias) and more effective treatment modalities are available. Prednisone alone is not effective in the treatment of primary myelofibrosis.

**D - Imatinib** - Imatinib is used for the treatment of Philadelphia chromosome-positive CML, which could be responsible for this patient's constitutional symptoms and splenomegaly. However, in patients with CML blood smear would show extreme leukocytosis and bone marrow aspiration would show hyperplastic myelopoiesis (predominantly granulocytosis). Furthermore, the JAK 2 mutation is not a diagnostic marker for CML.

**F - Observation and follow-up** - Asymptomatic patients who are diagnosed with primary myelofibrosis may be observed without intervention. However, this patient has symptoms of cytopenia and bone marrow aspiration confirms severe bone marrow involvement, so treatment should be initiated.

