### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Rivaroxaban** - Direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs), such as rivaroxaban, are used as first-line therapy for long-term anticoagulation (3–6 months) in nonpregnant patients with proximal DVT, as seen here. Because DOACs do not require regular monitoring, they are suitable for this patient's lifestyle and might, therefore, lead to an increased likelihood of medication adherence. Other benefits of DOACs include no need for bridging therapy and a lower risk of major bleeding and dietary or drug interactions in comparison with warfarin. In addition, rivaroxaban and apixaban do not require initial therapy with parenteral anticoagulation (e.g., with LMWH), while dabigatran and edoxaban do. DOACs should be avoided in patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min) and are contraindicated in patients with liver disease and elevated INR.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Unfractionated heparin** - Unfractionated heparin (UFH) is often used as initial parental anticoagulation (the first 5–10 days) in patients with DVT, especially in those with concomitant renal failure, inadequate subcutaneous absorption (i.e., morbid obesity), and those at high risk of bleeding. However, since UFH is usually administered intravenously and requires regular monitoring with aPTT, it is not suitable for long-term anticoagulation.

**B - Warfarin** - Warfarin is the preferred long-term anticoagulation therapy for patients with DVT and severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min). This patient's renal function, however, is normal. Because warfarin requires bridging therapy with parenteral anticoagulation, regular monitoring of INR, and is associated with a higher risk of major bleeding and dietary and/or drug interactions when compared with other anticoagulants, it is used as second-line therapy in patients with DVT and normal renal function.

**C - Aspirin** - Although aspirin inhibits platelet aggregation and exerts an antithrombotic effect, it is not an anticoagulant and is, therefore, not effective in the treatment of patients with DVT. Indications for long-term aspirin treatment include secondary prevention in patients with coronary artery disease, peripheral artery disease, and ischemic stroke.

**D - Abciximab** - Although abciximab inhibits platelet aggregation and exerts an antithrombotic effect, it is not an anticoagulant and is, therefore, not effective in the treatment of patients with DVT. Abciximab is only indicated in high-risk patients with unstable angina/NSTEMI scheduled for PCI within the next 24 hours.

**E - Enoxaparin** - Low molecular weight heparin (LMWH), such as enoxaparin, is commonly used as initial therapy (the first 5–10 days) for patients with DVT but not for long-term anticoagulation, because it is administered subcutaneously. Only in exceptional cases, LMWH is the preferred long-term anticoagulation therapy, e.g., in patients who are pregnant, have active cancer, or liver impairment and increased INR.

