### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Cytogenetic studies** - Cytogenetic studies to test for BCR-ABL fusion gene that is formed by the t(9;22) chromosome, also known as the Philadelphia chromosome, is the most appropriate next step in a patient with suspected CML. The first-line treatment for CML is targeted therapy with a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (imatinib, dasatinib, nilotinib) that selectively targets the dysfunctional tyrosine kinase encoded by the bcr-abl fusion gene.

Image File: 238-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_585bb4074be42.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cytarabine and daunorubicin** - Chemotherapy with cytarabine and daunorubicin would be appropriate as induction therapy for a patient with non-M3 variant acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). AML classically presents in adults with signs of pancytopenia (i.e., infection, bleeding, fatigue) and would be confirmed by a peripheral blood smear or bone marrow biopsy demonstrating a predominance (> 20%) of myeloblasts, which often contain Auer rods.

**B - Serum protein electrophoresis** - Serum protein electrophoresis would be the best initial test for a patient with suspected multiple myeloma (MM). While MM may cause a normocytic anemia, it classically presents with bone pain or pathologic fractures in an elderly patient who also has laboratory findings of hypercalcemia, hyperuricemia, and acute renal failure, all of which are absent in this case. Moreover, bone marrow biopsy would demonstrate clonal plasma cells in MM.

**D - Flow cytometry** - Flow cytometry of the peripheral blood would be an appropriate diagnostic step in suspected chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and would show clonal populations of B cells. While CLL can present with fatigue and hepatosplenomegaly, it is most often diagnosed incidentally via a CBC showing leukocytosis with predominantly elevated lymphocytes.

**E - All-trans retinoic acid** - Immediate treatment with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) would be appropriate for a patient with acute promyelocytic leukemia, the M3 variant of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). AML classically presents in adults with signs of pancytopenia (i.e., infection, bleeding, fatigue) and would be confirmed by a peripheral blood smear or bone marrow biopsy showing a predominance (> 20%) of myeloblasts, which often contain Auer rods.

**F - Observation and follow-up** - Observation and monitoring would be appropriate in the case of asymptomatic chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), as CLL is a low-grade malignancy that is often indolent. In this case, chemotherapy is mainly indicated for symptomatic relief rather than to improve survival time. A patient with CLL would present with lymphocytosis on CBC. CML, on the other hand, has the potential to progress aggressively to a blast crisis, making observation inappropriate.

