### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Venous thrombosis** - Venous thrombosis is the leading cause of mortality in PNH. Thrombosis occurs in atypical locations, such as hepatic veins (Budd-Chiari syndrome), portal veins, and cerebral veins (headaches, stroke). The free Hb released during hemolysis scavenges serum nitric oxide (a vasodilator) and activates the endothelial lining of the blood vessels, leading to vasoconstriction and platelet aggregation, and, as a result, venous thrombosis. Physiologically, membrane proteins CD55/CD59 protect erythrocytes from complement-mediated hemolysis; a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor keeps these proteins attached to the surface of the cell. PNH is caused by an acquired genetic defect that results in a deficiency of the GPI anchor, leaving erythrocytes susceptible to complement-mediated hemolysis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cholesterol gallstones** - Patients with hemolytic anemias (especially spherocytosis) are at an increased risk of developing pigmented gallstones, not cholesterol gallstones. Hemolysis results in elevated unconjugated bilirubin levels in bile, which is insoluble and forms a precipitate with calcium (calcium bilirubinate stones) within the gallbladder. Although this patient may develop pigmented gallstones, she is at a higher risk of developing another condition far more frequently associated with PNH.

**B - Acrocyanosis** - Acrocyanosis is a common feature of cold agglutinin disease, an autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA), not of PNH. While AIHA can also present with signs of intravascular hemolysis, as seen in this patient, the antiglobulin (Coombs) test would be positive, reflecting the presence of anti-RBC autoantibodies in AIHA.

**C - Hepatocellular carcinoma** - Patients with hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) are at an increased risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma. HH presents with nonspecific symptoms such as fatigue and abdominal pain, and in late stages may cause liver failure with jaundice, resulting in a presentation similar to this patient's. Diabetes mellitus (due to pancreatic deposition of iron) is also seen in HH. However, most patients with HH have hepatomegaly and skin hyperpigmentation on examination. Furthermore, the presence of hemolytic anemia and dark urine would not be consistent with HH.

**E - Chronic lymphocytic leukemia** - Patients with PNH are at an increased risk of developing acute leukemias (especially acute myeloid leukemia), not chronic leukemias like CLL. This patient is more likely to develop another condition more frequently associated with PNH.

**F - Seizures** - Neurological symptoms such as seizures are a common feature of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), not of PNH. While TTP can also present with Coombs test-negative hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia, like in this patient, peripheral blood smear would show schistocytes. Moreover, this patient lacks other symptoms of TTP, such as fever and impaired renal function.

