### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Venlafaxine** - Venlafaxine is a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor used to treat unipolar depressive disorder. In a patient with underlying bipolar disorder, monotherapy with antidepressants (especially venlafaxine and TCAs) increases the risk of a switch in mood polarity to hypomania or mania. Discontinuation of venlafaxine and treatment with an antipsychotic drug are warranted in this patient. Moreover, following remission of his manic episode, he should be started on maintenance therapy with a mood stabilizer (e.g., lithium, valproic acid). If indicated, antidepressants may be used after initiating mood stabilizers.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Lithium** - Lithium is a mood stabilizer that is used for acute treatment and maintenance therapy of mania. This patient likely received medication for unipolar depressive disorder. However, lithium is not used as monotherapy for this condition. Moreover, lithium should prevent manic episodes, not precipitate them.

**B - Quetiapine** - Quetiapine is an atypical antipsychotic that can be used for acute treatment of manic and depressive episodes associated with bipolar disorder and as combination therapy for the long-term treatment of severe or refractory bipolar disorder. This patient was likely prescribed medication for unipolar depressive disorder. However, quetiapine is not used as monotherapy for this condition. Moreover, with the exception of isolated case reports, this drug is not known to precipitate mania.

**C - Bupropion** - Bupropion is an atypical antidepressant that inhibits norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake. In patients with bipolar disorder, it carries a low risk of a switch in mood polarity to mania. However, bupropion lowers the seizure threshold and is not used in patients with seizure disorder.

**E - Selegiline** - Selegiline is a monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor that can be used to treat unipolar depressive disorder (transdermal application) and Parkinson disease. However, it is typically not used for the initial treatment of depression because of its unfavorable side effect profile. Furthermore, while selegiline can cause serotonin syndrome, it is not known to precipitate mania.

