### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Chloramphenicol** - Pancytopenia due to bone marrow suppression is a side effect of therapy with chloramphenicol. It may develop in a dose-dependent, reversible manner or manifest as dose-independent irreversible aplastic anemia with a sudden onset up to several months after treatment. Aplastic anemia is a rare but potentially fatal side effect, so the use of chloramphenicol has been limited in developed countries. However, due to its low cost, it is often still used to treat bacterial meningitis caused by H. influenza, N. meningitidis, or S. pneumoniae in developing countries.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Doxycycline** - Side effects of doxycyline include hepatotoxicity, discoloration of teeth, inhibition of bone growth in children, damage to mucous membranes (e.g., esophagitis), and photosensitivity. However, this antibiotic is not associated with pancytopenia. Although oral doxycycline is used for the treatment of Lyme meningitis in some countries, there is no evidence of Lyme disease in this patient; moreover, she received IV rather than oral antibiotics.

**B - Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole** - Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX) is a known cause of pancytopenia in rare cases, as well as for more common side effects such as hyperkalemia, exanthema, photosensitivity, nephrotoxicity, megaloblastic anemia, and leukopenia. However, TMP/SMX is not recommended for the treatment of bacterial meningitis, so it is unlikely to have been given to this patient.

**C - Vancomycin** - Vancomycin in combination with a third-generation cephalosporin is a first-line treatment for bacterial meningitis in this patient's age group. However, this antibiotic is not associated with pancytopenia. Side effects of vancomycin include nephrotoxicity, anaphylactic reactions, and the red man syndrome.

**D - Daptomycin** - Side effects of daptomycin include reversible myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, and allergic pneumonitis. However, it is not associated with pancytopenia. Moreover, daptomycin is not a recommended treatment for bacterial meningitis.

**E - Linezolid** - Linezolid may be associated with bone marrow suppression, especially thrombocytopenia. However, linezolid-induced bone marrow suppression is usually dose-dependent and occurs during therapy, not weeks later, as in this patient. Moreover, this antibiotic is not recommended as a first-line treatment for bacterial meningitis but is used as a reserve drug for gram-positive resistant bacteria instead. It is therefore unlikely that this patient was treated with linezolid. Further side effects include peripheral neuropathy, gastrointestinal upset, and the risk of serotonin syndrome.

**G - Imipenem** - Imipenem can lower seizure threshold and cause gastrointestinal upset, skin rash, and thrombophlebitis. However, it is not known to cause pancytopenia. Moreover, imipenem is not recommended for the treatment of bacterial meningitis.

