### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Microhematuria** - Microhematuria and macrohematuria can occur in sickle cell disease due to sickling of RBCs in the renal papilla, with subsequent infarction and eventual papillary necrosis. Predisposing factors for sickling include hypoxia, acidosis, sudden temperature change, dehydration, stress, and pregnancy. The renal papillae are an area of very low oxygen tension (i.e., low PaO2) and, as such, are especially susceptible to hypoxia and sickling.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Coronary artery aneurysm** - Coronary artery aneurysm is an important complication of Kawasaki disease, a medium-vessel vasculitis that can manifest with distal extremity pain, edema, and fever in children < 5 years old, all of which apply to this patient. However, the incidence of Kawasaki disease is highest in individuals of Asian descent, whereas this patient comes from Africa. Furthermore, other common features of Kawasaki disease are not seen here, such as conjunctival injection, strawberry tongue, rash, and lymphadenopathy.

Image File: 241-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b3f41ea16ef4.jpg

**B - Hyperuricemia** - Hyperuricemia is the hallmark of gouty arthritis, which can manifest with painful joint swelling in the hands, as seen here. Causes of gout in children include Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, von Gierke disease, and leukemia with tumor lysis. However, this patient does not have the intellectual disability, dystonia, or self-mutilation tendency of Lesch-Nyhan syndrome. Nor does he have the hepatomegaly, hypoglycemia, or lactic acidosis of von Gierke disease. His lack of petechiae and recurrent infections also makes childhood leukemia less likely.

**C - Salmon-colored macules** - A salmon-colored macular rash in combination arthritis, fever, and anemia during childhood is concerning for systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis. However, larger joints (e.g., the knees, wrists, and ankles) would usually also be affected in this condition, which is not seen here. This patient's geographical background and lack of other systemic findings (e.g., lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, uveitis) support another diagnosis.

Image File: 241-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f1eefaaa669c.jpg

**D - Thickened heart valves** - Thickened heart valves may be observed in carditis accompanying an episode of acute rheumatic fever. While this patient does have arthritis and fever, his arthritis is not migratory and does not affect the large joints (e.g., the knee, wrist, or ankle), as would be expected in rheumatic fever. Furthermore, he has no reported history of pharyngitis, which would warrant clinical suspicion of rheumatic fever.

