### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Hemophilia** - Excessive bleeding in an otherwise healthy young male who easily bruises, with a probable family history of the disease in a maternal uncle and isolated PTT elevation is highly suspicious for hemophilia. Because hemophilia is an X-linked recessive disorder, it affects males almost exclusively, and ⅔ of patients have a positive family history in a maternal male relative. The history of easy bruising and joint swelling (likely hemarthrosis) in his maternal uncle is characteristic of hemophilia. Inherited hemophilias cause isolated factor VIII, IX, or XI deficiency (all part of the intrinsic coagulation pathway), presenting with isolated PTT (which measures intrinsic pathway function) elevation on lab workup.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Von Willebrand disease** - Certain types of von Willebrand disease can present with findings similar to those seen in this patient (mucosal bleeding, normal or ↑ PTT). However, von Willebrand disease also causes increased bleeding time, and it is autosomal dominant, meaning that one of the patient's parents would likely have a history of bleeding diathesis as well.

**B - Glanzmann thrombasthenia** - Glanzmann thrombasthenia is an inherited disorder causing excessive bleeding, which often presents with mucosal bleeding or excessive postprocedural bleeding. However, Glanzmann thrombasthenia presents with normal PTT and platelet count, ↑ bleeding time, and isolated platelets without clumping on peripheral smear, which are absent in this patient. Additionally, Glanzmann thrombasthenia is usually diagnosed in infancy or early childhood.

**D - Disseminated intravascular coagulation** - Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) is caused by sepsis, trauma, or shock, and results in a consumptive coagulopathy. While DIC causes excessive bleeding and ↑ PTT, this patient's vital signs are normal, he appears well, and he has no history of trauma; DIC is therefore unlikely based on history alone. Additionally, DIC causes ↑ PT, ↑ bleeding time, ↑ fibrin degradation products, ↓ platelets, ↓ plasma fibrinogen, and schistocytes on blood smear, none of which are seen in this patient.

**E - Immune thrombocytopenia** - Immune thrombocytopenia can cause mucosal bleeding, which is seen in this patient. However, it is also associated with a low platelet count, petechiae, and sometimes prolonged bleeding time, none of which are present in this patient. Finally, immune thrombocytopenia more frequently affects children and women of childbearing age, rather than teenage boys.

**F - Bernard-Soulier syndrome** - Bernard-Soulier syndrome is an inherited disorder causing excessive bleeding that can present with similar symptoms. However, patients with Bernard-Soulier syndrome have a normal PTT,↑ bleeding time, and giant platelets on peripheral smear, none of which are seen in this patient.

