### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Beta thalassemia minor** - Beta thalassemia minor (mutations in one of the two alleles coding for β-globin chains) manifests as a mild microcytic anemia with decreased HbA (ααββ) and compensatory increase of HbA2 (ααδδ) and HbF (ααγγ). Unlike beta thalassemia major (two deficient alleles), beta thalassemia minor usually manifests later in life, causes milder anemia, and rarely causes splenomegaly, which matches this patient's clinical presentation.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Hemoglobin Barts disease** - Hemoglobin Barts disease, the most severe type of alpha thalassemia, is caused by a deletion of all 4 α-globin gene loci and results in excessive production of pathologic γ-globin tetramer. It causes hydrops fetalis and leads to intrauterine fetal demise or death shortly after birth.

**C - Alpha thalassemia minima** - Alpha thalassemia minima, the most benign type of alpha thalassemia, is caused by a deletion of 1 out of 4 α-globin gene loci. It manifests with normal HbA2, unlike in this patient. Moreover, patients with alpha thalassemia minima are classically asymptomatic.

**D - Hemoglobin H disease** - Hemoglobin H disease, a severe type of alpha thalassemia, is caused by a deletion of 3 out of 4 α-globin gene loci and results in excessive production of pathologically altered HbH. It usually manifests in neonates with mild to moderate anemia, hepatosplenomegaly, and jaundice. While it causes decreased HbA, which would be expected in this patient, it is also associated with decreased HbA2 and HbF.

**E - Sickle cell trait** - Sickle cell trait manifests in patients with a mutation in only one of the two β-globin alleles. While sickle cell trait manifests with decreased HbA, which is expected in this patient, it would be also associated with elevated HbAS. In addition, it causes a normocytic (not a microcytic) anemia and does not manifest with the elevated HbA2 seen in this patient.

