### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Cladribine** - Chemotherapy with cladribine is the first-line treatment for hairy cell leukemia. Treatment is indicated in patients with symptoms of cytopenia, splenomegaly, and/or constitutional symptoms, which this patient has. The majority of patients achieve complete remission with cladribine. If treatment with this drug fails, it should be replaced with pentostatin.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Transfusion of packed red blood cells** - Transfusion of packed RBCs is indicated in patients with hemoglobin < 7–8 g/dL who have active bleeding and/or hemodynamic instability, symptomatic anemia, or cardiovascular conditions in which a low Hb further increases the risk of poor organ perfusion and tissue oxygenation. Although this patient's laboratory results indicate anemia, the transfusion threshold has not been reached and the treatment of the underlying condition should be the first priority.

**B - Cyclophosphamide** - Although cyclophosphamide is routinely used for induction therapy of many leukemias and lymphomas, it is not, however, effective in the treatment of hairy cell leukemia.

**C - Transfusion of platelets** - The transfusion threshold for platelet transfusion is a platelet count < 10,000/mm3 regardless of the clinical findings and a platelet count < 50,000/mm3 in symptomatic patients (e.g., with active bleeding). Although this patient has thrombocytopenia, the transfusion threshold has not been reached and treatment of the underlying condition should be the first priority.

**D - Rituximab** - In patients with hairy cell leukemia, rituximab is used to treat refractory or relapsed cases that do not respond to the first-line treatment. Another treatment modality is more appropriate for this patient at this time.

**E - Melphalan** - Melphalan is used to treat multiple myeloma. High-dose chemotherapy with melphalan is administered prior to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Another treatment modality is required for this patient's indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma.

