### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Macroangiopathic hemolytic anemia** - Macroangiopathic hemolytic anemia is caused by mechanical destruction of erythrocytes in the systemic circulation. Prosthetic heart valves are a known cause of macroangiopathic hemolysis. Patients typically present with features of intravascular hemolysis, including the presence of schistocytes on PBS, as seen here. Other causes of macroangiopathic hemolytic anemia include moderate to severe aortic stenosis, extracorporeal circulations, and exertional hemoglobinuria.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency** - Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency (G6PD deficiency) manifests with symptoms and laboratory markers of hemolytic anemia, which are seen here. In addition, this patient takes trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, which has been associated with hemolytic crisis in individuals with G6PD deficiency. However, schistocytes are not a typical feature of this condition. PBS in G6PD deficiency typically shows bite cells and Heinz bodies (the latter would only be seen with supravital staining).

Image File: 256-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5afe5c45a1550.jpg

**B - Hereditary spherocytosis** - Hereditary spherocytosis (HS) manifests with symptoms and laboratory markers of hemolytic anemia, which this patient has. However, in HS, a peripheral blood smear typically shows spherocytes rather than schistocytes. Moreover, HS usually manifests during infancy or early childhood, and patients have splenomegaly on abdominal examination, neither of which is seen here.

Image File: 256-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5911bbe14ca06.jpg

**C - Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura** - Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) manifests with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and the presence of schistocytes on PBS, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, patients with TTP typically present with fever, neurological features (e.g., altered mental status), thrombocytopenia, and impaired kidney function, none of which are seen here.

**E - Autoimmune hemolytic anemia** - Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) is usually mediated by IgM antibodies (cold agglutinins) or IgG antibodies (warm agglutinins) and is most commonly seen in elderly women. However, schistocytes are not typical for AIHA. PBS in AIHA typically shows spherocytes, agglutinated RBCs, and polychromasia.

