### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Hodgkin lymphoma** - The combination of localized lymphadenopathy, alcohol-induced pain, and B symptoms should raise concern for Hodgkin lymphoma. This patient's age further supports the diagnosis of Hodgkin lymphoma, which has a bimodal age distribution, with the highest prevalence in the 3rd and 6th–8th decades of life. Lymph node biopsy findings can show Reed-Sternberg cells, which are CD15/30-positive, polynuclear giant cells that originate from B cells. Reed-Sternberg cells are pathognomonic for Hodgkin lymphoma and would confirm the diagnosis.

Image File: 258-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59ae7369a9af3.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma** - Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the most common type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma in adults. Although lymphadenopathy and B symptoms are frequently seen in DLBCL, this patient's histopathologic findings and alcohol-induced pain would not be expected.

**C - Mycobacterial infection** - Tuberculosis can manifest with B symptoms and lymphadenopathy. However, other hallmarks of pulmonary tuberculosis, such as a history of cough or hemoptysis, are not seen in this patient. Moreover, this patient's histopathologic findings and alcohol-induced pain would not be expected.

**D - Adult T-cell lymphoma** - Adult T-cell lymphoma is an aggressive type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma that can manifest with B symptoms and lymphadenopathy. However, this patient does not have other features of adult T-cell lymphoma, such as cutaneous lesions, bone pain (due to lytic bone lesions), and signs of hypercalcemia. Moreover, this patient's histopathologic findings and alcohol-induced pain would not be expected.

**E - Acute lymphocytic leukemia** - Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) is the most common form of childhood leukemia and typically manifests with B symptoms and lymphadenopathy. However, unlike in this patient, symptoms of pancytopenia (e.g., weakness, pallor, or easy bruising) are usually seen. Moreover, this patient's histopathologic findings and alcohol-induced pain would not be expected.

**F - Acute retroviral syndrome** - Acute retroviral syndrome is the classic manifestation of new-onset HIV infection. It manifests with a variety of symptoms, including fever, fatigue, rash, and lymphadenopathy, some of which are seen in this patient. However, this patient's histopathologic findings and alcohol-induced pain would not be expected.

