### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Decreased transferrin saturation** - Transferrin saturation (TSAT), which indicates the amount of serum iron bound to transferrin, is decreased in IDA because there is decreased circulating iron available to bind to transferrin. TSAT is calculated by dividing serum iron (reduced in IDA) by total iron-binding capacity (increased in IDA); normal values range from 20–50%. TSAT can be helpful in confirming a diagnosis of IDA and distinguishing IDA from other forms of microcytic anemia. Other common laboratory findings in IDA include decreased ferritin, increased transferrin, decreased MCH (hypochromic anemia), increased red cell distribution width, low reticulocyte count, and elevated soluble transferrin receptor.

IDA frequently results from occult gastrointestinal bleeding, which is especially common in elderly individuals. Although this patient's history of chronic naproxen use and abdominal pain suggests nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced gastritis, further diagnostic studies (e.g., colonoscopy and esophagogastroduodenoscopy) are necessary to confirm the underlying source of bleeding.

Image File: 259-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60741bbe60505.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increased serum ferritin** - Ferritin is the main storage protein for iron and increases in proportion to body iron stores. Ferritin levels are typically high in anemia of chronic disease and sideroblastic anemia. Moreover, ferritin is an acute-phase protein that can be elevated independent of iron status in response to an ongoing inflammatory process. Since iron stores are low in IDA, ferritin is typically decreased.

**B - Decreased red cell distribution width** - Red cell distribution width (RDW) is a measure of the range of RBC size or volume and is typically increased rather than decreased in established IDA. RDW can help distinguish IDA from anemia of chronic disease and certain types of thalassemia in which the RDW is usually normal.

**C - Increased reticulocyte count** - The reticulocyte count represents erythropoietic activity and increases in response to hemolysis or blood loss. In IDA, a substantial substrate for hemoglobin synthesis (i.e., iron) is missing; therefore, the reticulocyte count is typically low.

**D - Increased mean corpuscular hemoglobin** - Increased mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH) is expected in vitamin B12 or folate deficiency anemia. Although MCH may also be normal (normochromic) in iron deficiency, IDA typically manifests with decreased MCH (hypochromic anemia) as a result of insufficient heme synthesis.

**F - Decreased total iron binding capacity** - Total iron-binding capacity (TIBC) determines the capacity of the blood to bind iron and is an indirect measure of transferrin. TIBC is low in anemia of chronic disease and sideroblastic anemia. However, if body iron stores are depleted, as in IDA, less iron is bound to transferrin and TIBC is consequently high.

