### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Borderline personality disorder** - Borderline personality disorder is diagnosed when ≥ 5 of the following features are present: a pervasive pattern of unstable and intense interpersonal relationship(s) characterized by alternations between extremes of idealization and devaluation, recurrent suicidal behavior, threats of or actual self-injurious behavior, feelings of emptiness, markedly and persistently unstable self-image, difficulty controlling anger (e.g., recurrent physical fights), frantic efforts to avoid real or imagined abandonment (not including suicidal or self-injurious behavior); impulsivity in at least two areas (e.g., unsafe sex, spending sprees) that is potentially self-damaging (not including suicidal or self-mutilating behavior); transient paranoid ideation or severe dissociative symptoms. This patient fulfills the first 5 of these criteria. Borderline personality disorder is more commonly diagnosed among women.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bipolar I disorder** - Bipolar I disorder can result in periods of exuberance due to manic episodes as well as a history of suicidal attempts and/or periods of sadness due to depressive episodes. This patient, however, does not meet the criteria for manic episodes because the periods of exuberance do not last more than 7 days and are not accompanied by other features such as psychomotor agitation, a decreased need for sleep, or risky behavior (e.g., spending sprees, sexual indiscretion).

**B - Narcissistic personality disorder** - Patients with narcissistic personality disorder (NPD) are often manipulative, but aggressiveness, impulsivity, feelings of inadequacy, and self-harm are not features of this disorder. Instead, patients have a strong sense of self-importance, haughty behavior, a sense of entitlement, a need for excessive admiration, a need to associate only with people or institutions of the highest status, a lack of empathy, envy of others, and/or a belief that others are envious of them

**C - Histrionic personality disorder** - Patients with histrionic personality disorder display attention-seeking, manipulative behavior and are willing to be viewed as fragile or dependent in order to get attention. However, aggressiveness, feelings of emptiness, and self-harm are not features of histrionic personality disorder. Instead, patients use flirtatious behavior, theatrical speech, or their physical appearance in order to gain attention.

**D - Cyclothymic disorder** - A cyclothymic disorder can result in mood swings that range from exuberance to sadness. However, these mood swings would occur in periods that typically last several days, unlike the mood swings in this patient that last several hours. Moreover, these mood swings should be present for at least half the time over a 2 year period before a diagnosis of cyclothymic disorder can be made.

**E - Antisocial personality disorder** - Patients with antisocial personality disorder are often impulsive, physically aggressive, and manipulative in interpersonal relations and have a reckless disregard for their own safety. However, intentional self-harm is not a feature of antisocial personality disorder, and the goal of being manipulative would not be to cause concern in or elicit the sympathy of another individual but to profit in some way. In addition, the individual would disregard the rights of others without any remorse, and have a history suggestive of conduct disorder during adolescence.

**F - Dependent personality disorder** - Patients with dependent personality disorder have an intense need to be taken care of and a fear of abandonment. However, aggressive behavior and self-harm are not features of a dependent personality disorder. Instead, patients tend to be submissive in relationships and tend to urgently seek a new relationship once a relationship fails in order to avoid feeling alone and helpless.

**G - Bipolar II disorder** - Bipolar II disorder can result in periods of exuberance due to hypomanic episodes as well as a history of suicidal attempts and/or periods of sadness due to depressive episodes. This patient, however, does not meet the criteria for hypomanic episodes because the periods of exuberance do not last more than 4 days and are not accompanied by other features such as psychomotor agitation, a decreased need for sleep, or risky behavior (e.g., spending sprees, sexual indiscretion).

