### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Thick and thin blood smear** - Thick and thin blood smears are used to diagnose malaria. Thick blood smears are used as initial tests to detect the parasites, while thin blood smears confirm the diagnosis and determine the type of Plasmodium species. Malaria is suspected in individuals with a history of recent travel to endemic areas (e.g., tropical Africa, Asia, and South America), flu-like symptoms, and recurrent fever spikes. Further features include gastrointestinal symptoms (vomiting, nausea), hepatosplenomegaly, jaundice, and detection of hemolytic anemia in blood tests.

Image File: 260-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_559148b3e6071.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Heterophile antibody test** - The heterophile antibody test is used to diagnose infectious mononucleosis, a highly contagious disease caused by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). While the infection is often asymptomatic in younger children, adolescents and adults typically present with fever, malaise, splenomegaly, pharyngitis, and pronounced tonsillitis. Hepatomegaly and jaundice may occur as a result of hepatitis. In the absence of pharyngitis and tonsillitis, an EBV infection is unlikely.

**C - Direct antiglobulin test** - The direct antiglobulin test (direct Coombs test) is used to determine if hemolytic anemia is immune-mediated (indicated by agglutination of RBCs). The autoimmune reaction can be triggered by a number of conditions, including infections (mycoplasma, EBV), malignancies (e.g., CLL, Non-Hodgkin lymphoma), and systemic lupus erythematosus. Since the patient's presentation is not consistent with an EBV or mycoplasma infection, and CLL and Non-Hodgkin lymphomas occur in elderly people, an immune-mediated hemolytic anemia is unlikely.

**D - Enzyme testing** - Enzyme testing can be used to detect a number of diseases. In individuals with hemolytic anemia, jaundice, and splenomegaly, quantitative analysis of the G6PD enzyme can be used to rule out glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency. Although antimalarial drugs act as trigger for hemolytic crises in patients with G6PD deficiency, the condition does not present with symptoms of fever, malaise, and myalgia, and is therefore unlikely.

**E - Sickle cell test** - The sickle cell test detects hemoglobin S from a blood sample and is used to screen for sickle cell disease. Affected individuals present with hemolytic anemia, a tendency to infections, and vaso-occlusive crises that are characterized by severe pain of the bones, chest, and abdomen. Since disease onset usually occurs in early childhood (< 6 years of age) and symptoms do not typically include high fever, this diagnosis is unlikely.

Image File: 260-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9397dda9.jpg

**F - Ultrasound of the abdomen** - While an abdominal ultrasound can be indicated to assess the liver and spleen in this patient with splenomegaly and jaundice, it cannot determine the underlying cause of both these conditions, the fever, and the hemolytic anemia.

