### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Excisional biopsy** - Excisional biopsy of a lymph node is the most appropriate next step in confirming a diagnosis of suspected malignant lymphoma. Histopathological analysis of the biopsy specimen allows for the distinction between Hodgkin lymphoma and non-Hodgkin lymphoma, which is essential for determining further staging and a proper treatment regimen. Painless, fixed, slowly progressing lymph node enlargement (generalized or localized) should always raise suspicion for malignant disease.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Leukocyte count** - Leukocyte count is a nonspecific marker that should be obtained in all patients with suspected hematological malignancy. This patient most likely has lymphoma, which could cause either an elevation or decrease in the WBC count, so his leukocyte count would not be a reliable diagnostic marker.

**B - Fine needle aspiration** - Fine needle aspiration is commonly employed to assess solid lesions such as breast masses and thyroid nodules. However, fine needle aspiration would not provide enough tissue in the setting of suspected malignant lymphoma, so it is insufficient for obtaining an accurate diagnosis.

**C - Sputum polymerase chain reaction test** - Sputum PCR is used to diagnose active pulmonary tuberculosis (TB), which could manifest with fever, weight loss, lymphadenopathy, and cough as seen in this patient. However, patients with tuberculosis generally do not present with the cyclical fever this patient has. In addition, this patient's chest x-ray does not show typical findings of tuberculosis (hilar lymphadenopathy, cavitary lesions). Furthermore, he has no history of travel to endemic areas or exposure to individuals infected with TB.

**D - CT scan of the chest** - A CT scan of the chest would be useful to rule out the presence of lung cancer. This patient's chest pain, cough, shortness of breath, and weight loss are all consistent with a possible lung malignancy. However, his painless lymphadenopathy, cyclical fevers, and splenomegaly make lymphoma a more likely etiology. CT scan is helpful for staging lymphoma, but not in confirming the diagnosis and histological subtype.

**E - Viral serology** - Viral serology is important in determining the etiology of certain lymphomas. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) has been associated with 45% of all Hodgkin lymphomas, HIV increases the risk of developing Hodgkin lymphoma ten-fold, and Human T-cell lymphotropic virus type-1 (HTLV-1 is involved in the pathogenesis of adult T-cell lymphoma. However, viral serology neither helps in making a definitive diagnosis nor aids in determining the management of a patient with lymphoma, so it would not be the most appropriate next step in confirming the initial diagnosis for this patient.

**F - Bone marrow aspiration** - Bone marrow aspiration is a valuable test for staging lymphoma. This is more applicable to non-Hodgkin lymphoma, as it involves the bone marrow in 30–50% of cases. In cases of Hodgkin lymphoma, only 6% of patients have bone marrow involvement. For this patient, while a bone marrow aspiration may be necessary for staging, it would not be the next best step in making a definite diagnosis.

