### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Early diastolic extra heart sound** - The presence of a diastolic extra heart sound (S3) is associated with an exacerbation of a pre-existing MR. Patients with chronic mitral valve insufficiency have an elevated ventricular volume and pressure during diastole as a result of insufficient valve closure, which leads to backflow of blood through the mitral valves. This higher blood volume entering the left ventricle during diastole results in an S3 heart sound on auscultation (ventricular filling sound). The presence of an S3 heart sound is associated with advanced-stage or a severe MR.

Image File: 265-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f22e8c3cd623.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Paradoxical splitting of A2 and P2** - A paradoxical splitting of the second heart sound (A2 and P2) is seen in conditions that delay aortic valve closure such as aortic regurgitation (AR) and aortic stenosis (AS). Both these conditions can present with exertional dyspnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, fatigue, and a cardiac murmur, as seen here. However, the murmur of AR is a decrescendo, early diastolic murmur, and the murmur of AS is a crescendo-decrescendo systolic ejection. Also, both these murmurs would be best heard at the right upper sternal border (aortic area) rather than the cardiac apex. This patient's auscultatory finding is suggestive of mitral regurgitation, which is not associated with a paradoxical splitting of the second heart sound.

**C - Prominent V wave** - A prominent V wave on jugular venous examination (Lancisi sign) due to the merging of the V wave with the C wave is a sign of exacerbation in tricuspid regurgitation (TR). Severe TR can manifest with exertional dyspnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, fatigue, and a holosystolic murmur but the murmur would be best heard at the left lower sternal border (tricuspid area), not at the cardiac apex.

**D - Head bobbing** - Head bobbing is a characteristic physical exam finding in patients with aortic regurgitation (AR). Although AR may present with exertional dyspnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, and fatigue, the murmur is classically early diastolic, decrescendo, and best heard at the right upper sternal border, unlike the holosystolic murmur best heard at the apex here.

**E - Absence of A2 heart sound** - The absence of an A2 heart sound can be seen in severe aortic stenosis (AS). The second heart sound (S2) is composed of two parts, the A2 (closure of aortic valves) and the P2 (closure of pulmonic valves) sound. The A2 heart sound typically occurs prior to the P2 and is a very soft heart sound. In severe AS, the aortic valve may remain open until later in diastole, causing the P2 heart sound to drown out the A2. Patients with AS often have exertional dyspnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, and fatigue. However, AS presents with a harsh crescendo-decrescendo murmur best heard at the right upper sternal border, not a holosystolic murmur best heard at the apex.

**F - Radiation of the murmur to the axilla** - Radiation of the murmur to the axilla is commonly seen in patients with MR. However, radiation of the murmur to the axilla is not suggestive of MR exacerbation.

