### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - CT scan of the chest with contrast** - A contrast-enhanced CT (CECT) scan of the chest is the preferred imaging modality for investigating mediastinal abnormalities detected on chest x-ray (e.g., mediastinal widening, as seen in this patient, or a mediastinal mass) as it is accurate, rapid, and non-invasive. This patient's x-ray findings are strongly suggestive of a TAA, which can present with chest discomfort and a cough due to compression of the tracheobronchial tree (although most TAAs are asymptomatic, and this patient's cough may be a sequela of his recent upper respiratory tract infection). However, a chest x-ray cannot accurately determine the underlying cause of mediastinal widening. CECT can also delineate the size and length of the TAA and detect complications (e.g., thrombus formation, free/contained TAA rupture), thereby providing valuable information for planning management.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Esophageal manometry** - Esophageal manometry is used to diagnose esophageal motility disorders such as achalasia. While achalasia can also present with chest discomfort, patients more commonly report dysphagia to both solids and liquids, as well as regurgitation and weight loss, none of which is present here. The mediastinal widening in this patient is not due to a dilated esophagus.

**C - Fluoroscopy** - Fluoroscopy can accurately delineate the branches arising from the dilated segment of the thoracic aorta, which may be useful in planning surgical treatment of TAA. However, it does not allow for cross-sectional to be obtained, which means that the diameter of the aneurysm cannot be assessed. Moreover, it is an invasive procedure that can cause serious adverse effects, such as aortic dissection during the introduction of the needle and/or nephrotoxicity from the injected contrast. It is therefore not a preferred test if mediastinal widening is detected on chest x-ray.

**D - Reassurance** - Reassurance is an appropriate option if the cause for the widened mediastinum on a chest x-ray is aortic unfolding, which is the most common cause of a widened mediastinum on chest x-ray in the elderly. However, aortic unfolding appears as an opened up aortic arch on chest x-ray; it does not cause a tracheal shift, as seen here. This patient's has x-ray findings that are strongly suggestive of a TAA, which should be further investigated and confirmed or ruled out.

**E - Emergency surgery** - Emergency surgical repair is indicated for a ruptured/leaking thoracic aortic aneurysm or aortic dissection, both of which can appear as a widened mediastinum on chest x-ray, as seen in this case. However, both conditions cause severe thoracic pain (often indistinguishable from an acute MI) and hemodynamic instability (tachycardia, hypotension, sometimes hypertension) is typically present. As these features are absent in this patient, emergency surgical repair is not an appropriate management option.

**F - Genetic testing** - Approximately 20% of thoracic aortic aneurysms (TAAs) are hereditary, occurring either alone or as part of a syndrome (e.g., Marfan syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, Turner syndrome). Genetic testing should be considered if there is concern for a heredity etiology of the TAA, e.g., occurence at young age or a family history or clinical features associated with any of these syndromes. However, in this 62-year-old patient who does not have signs or symptoms of hereditary TAA, genetic testing would not be indicated. Moreover, a confirmatory test to definitively diagnose TAA is warranted.

**G - Biopsy** - A pathology of any of the structures in the mediastinum can appear as mediastinal widening on chest x-ray. Some examples include enlarged hilar lymph nodes (e.g., due to pneumonia, tuberculosis, Hodgkin lymphoma), achalasia, cardiomegaly, thoracic aortic aneurysm/dissection, or tumors (e.g., teratoma, thymoma, extragonadal germ cell tumor). However, not all of these conditions require confirmation on biopsy, and biopsy of cardiovascular structures would be disastrous. Therefore, biopsy is not the next best step after detecting mediastinal widening on chest x-ray.

Image File: 268-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_587f9c01119de.jpg

**H - Barium esophagram** - A barium esophagram is used in the diagnosis of esophageal disorders, including esophageal diverticula (e.g., Zenker diverticulum). Esophageal diverticula can cause chest discomfort and, in the case of regurgitation of food, cough. However, the absence of dysphagia, halitosis, and regurgitation of undigested food makes this diagnosis unlikely. The mediastinal widening in this patient is not due to an esophageal diverticulum.

**I - Endovascular repair** - Endovascular aneurysm repair is indicated in patients with a symptomatic thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA); an asymptomatic TAA with a diameter ≥ 5.5 cm in the ascending aorta or a diameter ≥ 6.5 cm in the descending aorta; or a TAA that is expanding ≥ 1 cm per year. Although this patient's x-ray findings strongly suggest TAA, the diagnosis first needs to be confirmed and the diameter assessed before planning a surgical intervention. These findings cannot be deduced from a chest x-ray alone.

