### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Switch to intravenous ceftriaxone** - Ceftriaxone is a third-generation cephalosporin that is effective against enteric gram-negative rods, including HACEK organisms such as C. hominis. Alternatively, other third-generation IV cephalosporins (e.g., cefotaxime) or a fourth-generation (e.g., cefepime) can be used to treat infective endocarditis caused by HACEK organisms.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Switch to intravenous ampicillin** - Because HACEK organisms such as C. hominis are increasingly resistant to ampicillin monotherapy, the guidelines allow ampicillin therapy only if susceptibility has been proven.

**C - Add intravenous penicillin G** - Penicillin G can be used for targeted antibiotic therapy against infective endocarditis caused by Streptococcus pyogenes or strains of Enterococcus, viridans streptococci, or S. gallolyticus that are sensitive to penicillin. Penicillin G is ineffective against gram-negative organisms such as C. hominis.

**D - Switch to intravenous cefazolin** - Since cefazolin is not effective against HACEK organisms such as C. hominis, switching to this antibiotic would be inappropriate.

**E - Switch to intravenous gentamicin** - Gentamicin is effective against gram-negative bacteria including HACEK organisms. However, gentamicin is both nephrotoxic and ototoxic, and the risk of developing one or more of the side effects of gentamicin is considerably higher if used for longer than 2 weeks. Since antibiotic therapy would be indicated for a minimum duration of 4 weeks in the case of infective endocarditis caused by C. hominis, a different antibiotic regimen is preferred. Also, gentamicin should not be used with another nephrotoxic, renally eliminated drug such as vancomycin.

**F - Add intravenous rifampin** - The combination of rifampin and vancomycin is not the recommended regimen for the treatment of endocarditis caused by HACEK organisms, as seen in this patient.

**G - Continue intravenous vancomycin** - Vancomycin, which is often used for empirical therapy in infective endocarditis, is effective only against gram-positive organisms (e.g., Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, enterococci, viridans streptococci). Vancomycin is ineffective against C. hominis and other gram-negative HACEK organisms.

