### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Stop ramipril and start candesartan** - Ramipril is an ACE inhibitor, a class of drugs that is known to cause a characteristic dry cough. ACE inhibitors decrease blood pressure by inhibiting the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS). Inhibition of ACE also causes an increase in bradykinin, which can lead to bronchoconstriction and dry cough. Patients presenting with cough caused by ACE inhibitors should be changed to an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) such as candesartan. Cough is a rare adverse effect of ARBs, as these agents do not influence the breakdown of kinins.

Other common adverse effects of ACE inhibitors include hypotension, hyperkalemia, a decrease in glomerular filtration rate, and angioedema.

Image File: 273-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ea053f641857.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Start dextromethorphan and increase frequency of albuterol** - Dextromethorphan is an NMDA glutamate receptor antagonist used as an over-the-counter cough suppressant and albuterol is a beta-2 agonist used in the treatment of asthma. While dextromethorphan might temporarily mitigate this patient's cough, it would not address the root cause of it. Additionally, there is no other evidence that this patient's cough is associated with an asthma exacerbation (such as dyspnea, wheezing, or chest tightness); increasing albuterol is therefore unlikely to resolve this problem.

**B - Stop simvastatin and start atorvastatin** - Both simvastatin and atorvastatin are statins, which are indicated to treat hyperlipidemia and act by decreasing LDL levels. Classic side effects of statins include myopathy and rhabdomyolysis but not cough. Therefore, changing the patient's medication from simvastatin to atorvastatin would be unlikely to resolve his cough.

**D - Stop ramipril and start lisinopril** - Ramipril and lisinopril are both ACE inhibitors. A common side effect of treatment with ACE inhibitors is an intermittent, non-productive cough, such as the one seen in this patient. Because all ACE inhibitors are known to cause this cough, switching from one agent to another within this class would be unlikely to resolve the problem.

**E - Stop albuterol and start salmeterol** - Albuterol and salmeterol are both beta-2 adrenergic agonists used in the treatment of asthma. While albuterol is a short-acting agent used for acute asthma exacerbations, salmeterol is a long-acting agents used for prophylaxis of asthma attacks. Although this patient has a history of asthma, his current cough seems unrelated to it. He does not have a history or findings to suggest exacerbation of asthma (e.g., exposure to triggers, dyspnea, or tachypnea on examination). Moreover, stopping albuterol would not be appropriate if there was any suspicion of an asthma exacerbation.

