### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Dilation of left atrium on echocardiogram** - Dilatation of the left atrium (LA) results from volume and pressure overload due to chronic mitral regurgitation (MR) in this patient. LA enlargement can cause atrial fibrillation, which explains the tachycardia and irregular heartbeat seen here. Echocardiography would be the best diagnostic method for visualizing the suspected structural and flow abnormalities of MR.

Image File: 277-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8d86971a6.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pulmonary artery thrombus on computed tomography scan** - A pulmonary artery thrombus on CT is seen in pulmonary embolism (PE). While this condition can cause dyspnea, it typically manifests with an acute onset of cough, chest pain, hypotension, and jugular venous distention. This patient's 2-month history of progressive shortness of breath and absence of chest pain and cough make this diagnosis unlikely.

**B - Diffuse ST elevations on electrocardiogram** - Diffuse ST elevations on ECG suggest acute pericarditis, which can cause dyspnea, as seen in this patient. However, this condition manifests with an acute onset of severe chest pain that is relieved by sitting up and leaning forward, and a pericardial friction rub on cardiac auscultation, neither of which are present.

**C - Obstruction of the right marginal artery on coronary angiogram** - Obstruction of the right marginal artery on a coronary angiogram is consistent with acute coronary syndrome (ACS), which typically presents with acute retrosternal chest pain/pressure, radiation to the jaw and/or left arm, shortness of breath, and nausea/vomiting. It also produces symptoms of right-sided heart failure due to reduced blood supply of the right ventricle, such as jugular venous distention. However, these symptoms are not present here, and this patient's progressive 2-month history of increasing dyspnea makes this diagnosis unlikely. Also, a significant systolic murmur characteristic of mitral regurgitation requires a different diagnostic method than an angiogram.

**D - Reversible area of myocardial ischemia on nuclear stress test** - Reversible myocardial ischemia due to CAD can be diagnosed by a nuclear stress test that includes myocardial perfusion imaging (MIBI). While this condition also causes shortness of breath, it typically presents with an acute onset of retrosternal pain/pressure that may radiate to the jaw and/or left arm, and autonomic symptoms such as sweating, pallor, and nausea/vomiting, which are not present here.

