### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Propranolol** - Beta-blockers such as propranolol are the mainstay of therapy for congenital long QT syndrome. Patients with symptomatic long QT syndrome (history of syncope or cardiac arrest), as seen here, should be treated with beta-blockers, such as propranolol or nadolol, in order to reduce the risk sudden cardiac death.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Implantable cardioverter defibrillator** - An implantable cardioverter defibrillator may be warranted for patients with congenital long QT syndrome and recurrent symptoms despite optimization of therapy. However, first-line treatment should be attempted in this patient before performing a more invasive procedure.

**C - Adenosine** - Adenosine is both diagnostic and therapeutic for supraventricular tachycardia (SVT). While SVT can present with syncope, as seen in this patient, a prolonged QT interval on ECG and a heart rate < 100 bpm rules out SVT as the most likely diagnosis.

**D - Procainamide** - Procainamide is an antiarrhythmic drug used for the treatment of ventricular tachycardia (i.e. Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome). However, this patient's ECG is not concerning for arrhythmias, and a long QT interval alone is not an indication for treatment with procainamide.

**E - Pacemaker** - Cardiac pacemakers are used for the treatment of a broad variety of cardiac conditions such as hemodynamically unstable 3rd degree heart block. This 5-year-old boy presents after an episode of syncope and is otherwise hemodynamically stable. His ECG was only remarkable for a prolonged QT interval, with a borderline normal heart rate. Cardiac pacing can be considered in patients with congenital QT syndrome who fail to respond to the treatment of choice.

**F - Magnesium sulfate** - Magnesium sulfate is the first-line treatment for hemodynamically stable patients with torsades de pointes. Patients with LQTS are at increased risk of developing dangerous ventricular arrhythmias such as torsades de pointes. However, this 5-year-old boy presents with a prolonged QT interval and no other ECG abnormalities.

**G - Amiodarone** - Amiodarone is a class III antiarrhythmic agent used for the treatment of both ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias (atrial fibrillation). However, since this patient only presents with evidence of a prolonged QT interval on ECG, amiodarone is not indicated for the management of this patient.

**H - Stellectomy** - Stellectomy (also known as left cardiac sympathetic denervation) is a surgical procedure used to reduce the risk of syncope and sudden cardiac death in patients with congenital long QT syndrome. However, first-line treatment should be attempted in this patient before performing a more invasive procedure.

