### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Digitalis toxicity** - In a patient with impaired renal function and who is taking digoxin, as seen here, the development of diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain, palpitations, blurry vision, headache, and hyperkalemia suggests digitalis toxicity. Digoxin has a narrow therapeutic index and close monitoring of serum concentrations is necessary, especially in patients with kidney disease. Cardiac arrhythmias (premature ventricular contractions being the most common) are the most serious complication. If digitalis toxicity is suspected, the patient should be placed immediately on cardiac monitoring and an ECG should be obtained. Blood samples should also be drawn to evaluate electrolyte abnormalities and serum digoxin concentration.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Metoprolol toxicity** - Metoprolol toxicity can manifest with bradycardia, relatively low blood pressure values, and hyperkalemia, all of which are seen here. However, hypoglycemia, not hyperglycemia, would be expected. Moreover, nausea, vomiting, and premature ventricular contractions are not common findings.

**B - Hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state** - Hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state (HHS) is primarily seen in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and can manifest with abdominal pain, vomiting, neurological abnormalities (e.g., blurry vision), and hyperkalemia, all of which are seen here. However, the serum glucose level is usually > 600 mg/dL, making HHS an unlikely diagnosis in this patient.

**C - Thyrotoxicosis** - Thyrotoxicosis can manifest with palpitations, diarrhea, and, rarely, vomiting and abdominal pain. However, other findings of thyrotoxicosis (e.g., tachycardia, hypertension, and tremor) would also be expected.

**D - Acute viral gastroenteritis** - Acute viral gastroenteritis manifests with vomiting, diarrhea, and diffuse abdominal pain, all of which are seen here. In addition, this patient has had contact with an individual with a rotavirus infection, which is a known cause of acute viral gastroenteritis. However, acute viral gastroenteritis usually manifests with bradycardia, fever, and hypokalemia (due to vomiting and diarrhea), not hyperkalemia, as seen in this patient.

