### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Instruct parents to remove guns from the house** - This patient's history of accompanying his father to the shooting range suggests that he is familiar with the use of firearms and could have access to guns at home. In order to significantly reduce the risk of suicide in a patient who has suicidal ideation without a concrete plan to end his/her life, highly lethal objects (especially firearms) that could be used in a suicide attempt should be removed from the patient's environment.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Recommend family therapy** - Family therapy may be helpful in this patient with major depressive disorder as an adjunct therapy, especially since there are familial conflicts stressing him. However, it is not the most appropriate next step in management and patient assessment should be completed beforehand.

**B - Contact child protective services** - Child Protective Services should be informed in cases of suspected child abuse. Signs that should raise awareness of child maltreatment include a poor overall appearance and clothing, abnormal social and physical development, and signs of physical abuse (e.g., scald burns, bruising or fractures unlikely to be caused by accidents). Although this patient mentions familial conflicts, there is no evidence of abuse.

**C - Recommend alcohol cessation** - Alcohol cessation should be recommended, as alcohol consumption may provoke suicidal behavior due to its disinhibiting effects. However, other measures take precedence in order to decrease the risk of suicide in this patient.

**D - Hospitalization** - Hospitalization (even against the patient's will) should be considered if he was at imminent risk of suicide. Although this patient has suicidal ideation, he currently does not have a specific plan to end his life and is not at immediate risk of suicide. At this point, his treatment can be continued in an outpatient setting.

**E - Contact local police** - In cases of imminent risk of suicide it may become necessary to involve authorities (e.g., local police) to prevent the patient from attempting suicide. Although this patient has suicidal ideation, he currently does not have a specific plan to end his life and is not at immediate risk of suicide.

**F - Reassure the patient that he will feel better** - Although he does not express a concrete plan or intent to end his life, mere reassurance in addition to pharmacological treatment would be inappropriate for a patient with suicidal ideation.

