### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Mitral valve stenosis** - This patient's diastolic murmur at the fifth intercostal space and opening snap indicate mitral stenosis, which causes an increase in left atrial pressure (and ↑ PCWP) and a backup of blood into lungs. The volume overload eventually causes symptoms of cardiogenic pulmonary edema, which explain this patient's orthopnea, hemoptysis, and crackles. The absence of P-waves confirms atrial fibrillation, a common complication of mitral stenosis. This patient most likely suffered from rheumatic fever, the most common cause of mitral stenosis.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pulmonary valve regurgitation** - Pulmonary regurgitation may be caused by pulmonary hypertension as a result of volume overload in patients with left-sided heart failure. Such patients would present with signs of cardiogenic pulmonary edema, which would explain this patient's orthopnea, hemoptysis, and crackles. However, pulmonary regurgitation causes a diastolic murmur heard best at the second left intercostal space parasternally (sometimes referred to as Graham Steel murmur), which would be more pronounced during inspiration.

Image File: 280-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8965271b4.jpg

**B - Aortic valve stenosis** - Although severe aortic valve stenosis may eventually cause signs of pulmonary edema (orthopnea, hemoptysis, crackles), patients would most likely first present with syncope or angina. Furthermore, aortic stenosis causes a harsh systolic crescendo-decrescendo murmur best heard at the second right intercostal space, which can radiate to the carotids.

Image File: 280-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8e498f442.jpg

**C - Mitral valve prolapse** - Mitral valve prolapse is the most common valvular abnormality in developed countries and is often caused by rheumatic fever. However, it is usually asymptomatic and is best heard at the fifth intercostal space at the midclavicular line as a mid-systolic high-frequency click.

Image File: 280-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8fa812d65.jpg

**D - Pulmonary valve stenosis** - Pulmonary valve stenosis is usually congenital and causes a systolic murmur best heard at the second left intercostal space parasternally. It can radiate to the back and also be present as a widely split second heart sound, but this is not consistent with this patient's findings.

Image File: 280-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8e498f442.jpg

**E - Mitral valve regurgitation** - Mitral regurgitation may cause signs of pulmonary edema (orthopnea, hemoptysis, crackles). However, it presents as a holosystolic murmur best heard at the apex of the fifth left intercostal space, in contrast to this patient's diastolic murmur.

Image File: 280-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8d86971a6.jpg

**G - Tricuspid valve stenosis** - Tricuspid valve stenosis is extremely rare and can be caused by rheumatic fever. However, it causes a diastolic murmur best heard at the left fourth intercostal space parasternally and is usually associated with signs of right heart failure (e.g., peripheral edema, jugular venous distention).

Image File: 280-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb856f0ba86.jpg

**H - Tricuspid valve regurgitation** - Tricuspid regurgitation can be caused by rheumatic fever. However, it is best heard as a systolic murmur at the fourth intercostal space parallel to the sternum and is usually associated with signs of right heart failure (e.g., peripheral edema, jugular venous distention).

Image File: 280-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8d86971a6.jpg

**I - Aortic valve regurgitation** - Although aortic regurgitation may cause signs of pulmonary edema (orthopnea, hemoptysis, crackles), it causes a diastolic decrescendo murmur heard best parasternally at the second intercostal space, and may sometimes be accompanied by an Austin Flint murmur.

Image File: 280-I
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8965271b4.jpg

