### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Adverse effect of medication** - An adverse effect from a medication is the most likely explanation for this patient's current symptoms. Following surgical repair of his fracture, he was probably given heparin as prophylaxis against deep venous thrombosis (DVT) (as evidenced by his increased APTT and normal PT; subcutaneous heparin is also the standard of care for DVT prophylaxis in orthopedic surgery). Heparin administration can lead to heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (formerly known as type 2 HIT). This adverse event most commonly manifests with venous or arterial clotting 5–14 days following heparin administration; laboratory studies demonstrate thrombocytopenia but clinically apparent bleeding is not common. Other manifestations (beyond peripheral arterial clot, as seen in this patient) can include deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, or myocardial infarction.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Peripheral arterial disease** - Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) most commonly causes chronically ischemic limbs (e.g., toe gangrene or poorly healing foot wounds) in a distal to proximal fashion. This patient has a significant smoking history, is male, and is older than 65 years of age, all of which are important risk factors for PAD. However, PAD is much more common in the lower extremities than the upper extremities, would not explain the patient's thrombocytopenia, and would also not explain an isolated proximal vascular lesion.

**B - Patent foramen ovale** - A patent foramen ovale typically permits a left-to-right shunt, as high pressure arterial blood from the left heart can mix into the lower pressure venous blood on the right side of the heart. However, there is a theoretical risk of conversion to a right-to-left shunt. In instances of a right-to-left shunt, a venous thrombus could be ejected into the arterial circulation and migrate to a distal peripheral artery, such as the brachial artery. Such an event is exceedingly uncommon. This patient's recent femur fracture, low platelet count, and prolonged aPTT suggest another diagnosis.

**C - Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura** - Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) very often causes an acute drop in the platelet count, which is seen in this patient. Other features of TTP include fever, neurologic changes (e.g., altered mental status, delirium), microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (manifesting as low hemoglobin), and impaired renal function, none of which is seen in this patient. In addition, acute arterial thrombosis is not characteristic of TTP.

**E - Fat embolization** - Fat embolization is a serious complication of long bone fractures (e.g., humerus or femur). The most common manifestation is acute-onset hypoxia, neurological involvement (e.g., confusion, lethargy, seizures), and a petechial rash on the axilla and chest wall. This patient does not have any of these findings; moreover, this diagnosis would not explain the patient's thrombocytopenia.

**F - Atrial fibrillation** - Atrial fibrillation is a strong risk factor for arterial embolism. In patients who have chronic atrial fibrillation, stasis of blood in the atrium can facilitate formation of a clot. Over time, small segments of the clot (emboli) can be released into the arterial circulation and cause stroke or limb ischemia, depending on which artery is ultimately occluded. However, the patient here has a regular rhythm and no history of atrial fibrillation. Moreover, atrial fibrillation would not explain the new-onset thrombocytopenia seen here.

**G - Disseminated intravascular coagulation** - Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) manifests with thrombotic features (e.g., deep venous thrombosis or arterial clot), low platelet count, prolonged aPTT, and positive D-dimer, which are all observed in this patient. However, DIC most commonly occurs in critically ill patients (e.g., those with septic shock, advanced malignancy, or complicated pancreatitis), not otherwise well patients. The absence of bleeding manifestations (i.e., petechiae, purpura, ecchymoses, or bleeding from venipuncture sites) and normal PT value in this patient are also inconsistent with this diagnosis.

