### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Staphylococcus aureus** - Staphylococci such as S. aureus account for the majority of cases of healthcare-associated infective endocarditis. IE caused by S. aureus is characterized by acute onset of symptoms and rapid progression (hours to days). Acute IE due to S. aureus can quickly lead to complications such as valvular insufficiency, heart failure, and septic emboli. Therefore, in addition to removing the infected CVC, empiric antibiotic therapy (vancomycin plus beta-lactam for native valve endocarditis) should be initiated after obtaining blood cultures.

Coagulase-negative staphylococci (e.g., S. epidermidis), S. aureus, enterococci, and Candida spp. are the organisms most commonly associated with CLABSI. Note that IE associated with coagulase-negative staphylococci typically has a subacute course with an insidious onset (weeks to months), low-grade fever, and nonspecific symptoms, unlike the fulminant course seen in this patient.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Haemophilus aphrophilus** - HAECK organisms such as Haemophilus aphrophilus are a rare cause of IE (usually in individuals with poor dental hygiene and periodontal infection). However, H. aphrophilus is not associated with CLABSI. Moreover, HAECK organisms typically cause subacute IE, whereas this patient has acute IE.

**B - Pseudomonas aeruginosa** - Pseudomonas aeruginosa can cause healthcare-associated infections, often in association with known prior colonization, but other pathogens are more commonly associated with CLABSI. In addition, IE due to P. aeruginosa is rare and typically associated with IV drug use.

**C - Streptococcus gallolyticus** - Streptococcus gallolyticus can occasionally cause acute IE, typically in association with colorectal cancer. However, S. gallolyticus is not a typical causative agent for CLABSI. Moreover, this patient has no history or clinical features to suggest colorectal carcinoma (e.g., weight loss, GI bleeding, abdominal mass).

**D - Escherichia coli** - Escherichia coli is a common cause of healthcare-associated infections, especially catheter-associated urinary tract infection (CAUTI), but other pathogens are more commonly associated with CLABSI. In addition, IE due to E. coli is rare and typically associated with risk factors such as immunosuppression, excessive alcohol consumption, indwelling urinary tract catheter, and/or urinary tract infection, none of which is seen in this patient.

**E - Klebsiella pneumoniae** - Klebsiella pneumoniae can cause healthcare-associated infections, but other pathogens are more commonly associated with CLABSI. In addition, K. pneumoniae usually causes infections in immunosuppressed adults and is a rare causative agent of IE.

