### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Intravenous drug use** - Acquired tricuspid valve regurgitation and signs of right-sided heart failure in a previously healthy patient suggest a diagnosis of tricuspid valve endocarditis, for which intravenous drug use (IVDU) is the most likely predisposing factor. The most commonly isolated pathogens in infective endocarditis due to IVDU are Staphylococcus aureus (most common), streptococci, enterococci, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Additional causes of tricuspid valve regurgitation in a young patient include rheumatic heart disease, right-sided heart failure, and connective tissue disease (e.g., Marfan syndrome).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - 45,XO genotype** - The 45,XO genotype causes Turner syndrome. The most common cardiovascular abnormalities in Turner syndrome are bicuspid aortic valve, coarctation of the aorta, and aortic dissection. Chronic and/or severe aortic valve disease could lead to left heart failure, which typically manifests with dyspnea, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, and bilateral basilar rales. However, this patient presents with features of right heart failure. Left heart murmurs do not increase on inspiration, unlike the auscultatory findings in this patient. Moreover, other typical manifestations of Turner syndrome (e.g., short stature, webbed neck, widely spaced nipples, amenorrhea) would also be expected.

**C - Vitamin B1 deficiency** - Severe vitamin B1 deficiency (usually secondary to alcohol use disorder in developed countries) results in wet beriberi. Wet beriberi typically manifests as high-output cardiac failure. Although examination would reveal JVD, ascites, and edema (as seen in this patient), this patient lacks other typical features of high-output cardiac failure such as dyspnea, tachypnea, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, bounding peripheral pulses, and an S3 gallop. In addition, a holosystolic murmur at the left lower sternal border would not be expected in such patients.

**D - Fibrillin gene defect** - Defects in the fibrillin gene are responsible for Marfan syndrome. The most common cardiovascular structures involved in Marfan syndrome are the aorta and valves of the left heart (e.g., aortic root dilation, aortic regurgitation, mitral valve prolapse). Chronic and/or severe left valvular heart disease could lead to left heart failure, which typically manifests with dyspnea, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, and bilateral basilar rales. However, this patient presents with features of right heart failure. Left heart murmurs (except for mitral valve prolapse) do not increase on inspiration, unlike the murmur in this patient. Moreover, other typical features of Marfan syndrome (e.g., joint hypermobility, lens subluxation) would also be expected.

**E - Streptococcal pharyngitis** - Untreated streptococcal pharyngitis (caused by group A streptococcus) can lead to rheumatic heart disease (RHD) that can manifest as heart failure in young or middle-aged individuals. However, as RHD mainly affects the valves of the left heart (i.e., the mitral and/or aortic valves), features of left heart failure (e.g., dyspnea, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, bilateral basilar rales) would be expected and the intensity of the murmur would not increase on inspiration. This patient presents with features of right heart failure and a murmur that increases on inspiration.

