### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Smoking cessation** - Smoking is the single most important risk factor for TAO. The exact mechanism by which smoking causes TAO is unknown, but direct endothelial cell toxicity from the components of tobacco is presumed to play a role. Complete cessation of smoking and other tobacco products is therefore the single most important therapeutic measure to prevent gangrene and amputation.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Compression stockings** - In this patient with PAD, the use of compression stockings is absolutely contraindicated if the ABI is < 0.6 because it can exacerbate lower limb ischemia. Instead, they are indicated in chronic venous insufficiency (CVI), which can present with pain in the lower limb and lower limb ulcers. However, CVI causes a “dragging” pain that is worsened by prolonged standing and relieved by walking or lying down with the lower limbs elevated, and the venous ulcers typically occur over the shin and medial malleolus. Moreover, the skin surrounding the ulcers would be hyperpigmented and/or thickened, and a history of lower limb edema and/or varicose veins would be present. Also, CVI typically occurs in elderly patients.

**B - Removing the ankle brace** - Chronic mechanical, extrinsic blood flow obstruction can cause limb ischemia or even compartment syndrome. It would present with progressively worsening pain despite immobilization, sensory deficits, as well as out-of-proportion pain on passive movement in the affected limb. This patient has clinical signs of vasculitis, and painful legs, bilaterally.

**C - Bypass grafting** - Peripheral artery bypass surgery or other revascularization procedures (e.g. angioplasty) usually cannot be performed in TAO because TAO affects distal small and medium-sized arteries, which are not amenable to revascularization procedures.

**E - Enoxaparin therapy** - In this patient with critical limb ischemia, anticoagulation with unfractionated heparin or LMWH (e.g., enoxaparin) is not useful. Anticoagulation should instead be used in a patient with acute limb ischemia (ALI), which can present similarly with painful cold limbs bilaterally if a saddle thrombus occurs. A family history of protein C deficiency is also a risk factor for thrombosis. However, with ALI, the onset of symptoms would be acute (as the name suggests!), the pedal pulses would be absent rather than decreased, and paralysis of the lower limbs would be expected. Moreover, patients with protein C deficiency would typically present with venous rather than arterial thrombosis.

**F - Prednisolone therapy** - Steroid therapy, e.g., with prednisolone, is commonly indicated to treat vasculitides with systemic features such as respiratory symptoms (e.g. Churg-Strauss, granulomatosis with polyangiitis) or renal involvement (e.g. polyarteritis nodosa, microscopic polyangiitis). It is not useful in treatment of thromboangiitis obliterans in which the disease process is primarily confined to the distal extremities. This patient lacks symptoms of systemic vasculitis and is not a candidate for steroid therapy.

**G - Iloprost therapy** - Iloprost therapy can help relieve the limb pain associated with TAO. However, a different measure is more important to prevent amputation of the limb.

**H - Simvastatin therapy** - Statins are a crucial component in the medical therapy for patients with atherosclerotic peripheral artery disease, which can present similarly with limb claudication, decreased pulses, digital ulcers, and a low ABI. However, atherosclerotic PAD typically occurs in elderly patients, and superficial thrombophlebitis is not a feature of atherosclerotic PAD. Progression of TAO, which is the diagnosis in this patient, cannot be prevented by statins because TAO is not an atherosclerotic process.

**I - Avoidance of cold temperatures** - To prevent secondary Raynaud's phenomenon, which commonly occurs in patients with TAO, protection of fingers and toes from cold temperatures is recommended. This intervention, however, only helps reduce the symptoms associated with painful vasospasms and does not address the underlying cause.

