### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Drug-induced vasoconstriction** - The persistent vasoplegia associated with septic shock frequently requires prolonged treatment with vasopressors to maintain a mean arterial blood pressure > 65 mm Hg. Norepinephrine is a vasopressor that preferentially agonizes alpha-1 receptors, causing an increase in systemic vascular resistance. Prolonged alpha receptor agonism can cause distal arterioles and their branches (especially cutaneous branches) to constrict to the point of causing downstream ischemia and consequent necrosis, as seen in this patient. This phenomenon is most commonly observed in the fingertips and distal toes and manifests with symmetrical discoloration and coldness.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cholesterol embolization** - Cholesterol embolization most commonly occurs in individuals with atherosclerosis after plaque rupture or as a complication of vascular interventions (e.g., a cardiac catheterization). A cholesterol embolus can obstruct distal blood vessels, leading to ischemia that can progress to digital necrosis (blue toe syndrome). However, this patient has not had any recent vascular intervention, and bilateral atherosclerotic plaque rupture with consequent bilateral acute limb ischemia is very unlikely.

**B - Increased compartment pressures** - Increased lower limb compartment pressures can lead to compartment syndrome, which, if left untreated, causes extraluminal compression of arterioles and limb ischemia that can progress to digital necrosis. However, this patient lacks other findings seen in compartment syndrome such as pain with passive motion of adjacent joints, tense edematous skin, and pain out of proportion to the examination. In addition, he does not have risk factors for compartment syndrome such as recent blunt trauma to the extremity or revascularization after ischemic insult.

**C - Deep vein thrombosis** - Extreme cases of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) can cause swelling that is strong enough to compromise arterial blood flow (also known as phlegmasia alba dolens) and, if left untreated, can cause limb ischemia and potentially digital necrosis. Moreover, this patient's age and prolonged immobilization put him at risk for developing DVT. However, DVT typically manifests with pain and swelling of the affected leg, neither of which is seen here. Moreover, bilateral DVT is uncommon.

**D - Cryoglobulin-mediated vasculitis** - Cryoglobulinemic vasculitis, which is caused by the deposition of immunoglobulins in blood vessel walls, can lead to pedal cyanosis and digital necrosis. However, cryoglobulinemic vasculitis is commonly associated with hepatitis C infection, lymphoproliferative disorders, and other disorders such as multiple myeloma, none of which this patient has. Moreover, he lacks other characteristic features of cryoglobulinemic vasculitis, such as arthralgia and palpable purpura.

**F - Septic embolization** - Septic embolization is a complication of infective endocarditis. Embolization of septic thrombi can lead to distal arterial occlusion and consequent digital necrosis. However, this patient lacks characteristic features of infective endocarditis such as splinter hemorrhages, Janeway lesions, Roth spots, Osler nodes, and/or a new cardiac murmur. Moreover, bilateral arterial occlusion due to septic emboli is very unlikely.

