### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Rupture of the chordae tendinae** - Chordae tendinae or papillary muscle rupture most commonly occurs 2–7 days after acute myocardial infarction and is due to extensive coagulative necrosis and the formation of granulation tissue at the area of infarction. This patient's localization of Q waves in the anteroseptal leads (e.g., V1–V4) suggests an infarction of the left anterior descending artery, which supplies the anterolateral papillary muscle. Acute mitral regurgitation can lead to signs of heart failure, as seen in this patient.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Postmyocardial infarction syndrome** - Postmyocardial infarction syndrome is a type of pericarditis that arises from an autoimmune reaction to exposed myocardial antigens after acute MI. Patients present with dyspnea, tachypnea, and tachycardia. However, this syndrome would manifest 2–10 weeks after an MI rather than 72 hours as seen in this patient. Furthermore, fever is usually present, cardiac auscultation would reveal a pericardial friction rub, and ECG would show ST elevations in all leads.

**B - Aortic root dilation** - Aortic root dilation can occur in postinfarction fibrinous pericarditis, which commonly manifests 1–3 days after MI. Patients with aortic root dilation present with features of aortic regurgitation. These patients have diastolic, not systolic, murmurs. Moreover, this patient is missing other symptoms of pericarditis, such as chest pain and a friction rub.

**D - Rupture of the ventricular free wall** - Ventricular wall rupture can occur within 2 weeks of myocardial infarction and typically results in hemopericardium and cardiac tamponade, which can manifest with profound right heart failure, shock, and often death. While free wall rupture and cardiac tamponade can also cause acute pulmonary edema, additional expected findings would include pulsus paradoxus and muffled heart sounds, none of which is observed in this patient.

**E - Rupture of the interventricular septum** - Rupture of the interventricular septum may occur within the first 2 weeks after MI and typically presents with sudden hemodynamic instability (hypotension, tachycardia), dyspnea, and new-onset holosystolic murmur. However, because blood is shunted from left to right, patients typically present with signs of right heart failure (e.g., increased JVP, peripheral edema) rather than the signs of isolated left heart failure (e.g., pulmonary edema, elevated PCWP) seen here. Moreover, the expected murmur would be heard best over the left sternal border, not the apex.

