### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Hypertension** - Aortic dissection most commonly occurs secondary to hypertension; more than 70% of patients with aortic dissection have elevated blood pressure, and hypertension accounts for more than 50% of the population at risk of aortic dissection. Uncontrolled hypertension leads to propagation of aortic dissection and increases the risk of rupture.

Image File: 295-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dee773fb768c.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Diabetes mellitus** - Diabetes mellitus is a risk factor for atherosclerosis, which increases the risk of aortic dissection. However, select studies have indicated that diabetes mellitus may have protective effects against aortic aneurysm formation and aortic dissection. Therefore, diabetes mellitus is not the strongest predisposing factor for this patient's aortic dissection.

**B - Age** - Aortic dissection has a peak incidence in individuals 40–60 years of age. Although this patient is 55 years old, his age is not the strongest predisposing factor for his condition.

**C - Male sex** - The risk of developing an aortic dissection is approx. 2–3 times higher in men than in women (in contrast to the risk of aortic dissection rupture, which appears to be slightly higher in women). However, this patient's gender is not the strongest predisposing factor for his condition.

**D - Cocaine abuse** - Cocaine use can cause abrupt, severe hypertension due to increased sympathetic activation, which is an important risk factor for aortic dissection. However, this patient has not used cocaine for the past 15 years. A history of cocaine abuse is not a strong predisposing factor for developing aortic dissection.

**E - Hyperlipidemia** - Hyperlipidemia can result in the formation of plaque in the tunica intima of arterial walls. This plaque can contribute to the development of atherosclerosis, which increases the risk of aortic dissection. However, hyperlipidemia is not the strongest predisposing factor for this condition.

**F - Obesity** - Obesity (in particular truncal obesity) is a risk factor for atherosclerosis, which is associated with aortic dissection. However, studies suggest that obesity is not associated with an increased risk of aortic dissection.

**H - History of smoking** - Smoking is a risk factor for atherosclerosis, which is associated with aortic dissection, and an independent risk factor for aortic dissection. Cessation of smoking is an important preventive measure for aortic dissection but smoking is not the strongest predisposing factor for this condition.

**I - Genetic collagen disorder** - Genetic collagen disorders (e.g., Marfan syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome) are a common cause of aortic dissection in patients ≤ 40 years of age. These disorders are very rare in older patients with aortic dissection. Moreover, this patient has no family history, personal history, or specific features (e.g., long fingers, hyperextensible joints, or hyperelastic skin) that would raise suspicion for these conditions.

