### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Acute myocardial infarction** - Presence of PAD is a very strong predictor of coexisting coronary artery disease, as both diseases have a similar pathogenesis (atherosclerosis) and shared risk factors (e.g., smoking, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes). Compared to healthy individuals, patients with PAD are at significantly increased risk for myocardial infarction and stroke. Evaluation and management of underlying coronary artery disease is recommended for patients with PAD, and risk factors should be addressed.

First-line therapy of lower extremity PAD is management of cardiovascular risk factors (e.g., smoking, diabetes, hypertension) and exercise (walking) therapy.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Abdominal aortic aneurysm** - Lower extremity PAD is associated with an increased risk of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA), as both diseases have a similar pathogenesis involving systemic atherosclerosis and shared risk factors (e.g., smoking, hypertension, etc). However, she is at even higher risk for development of a different complication.

**B - Lower extremity lymphedema** - Lymphedema refers to abnormal accumulation of fluid in the interstitium from lymphatic system dysfunction (e.g, due to injury, infection, congenital abnormality, post-surgical, radiation, etc). Although it may initially present similarly, this patient's exertional pain and lack of edema effectively rules out this diagnosis. Additionally, the presence of PAD is not associated with risk of lymphedema.

**C - Limb amputation** - Critical limb ischemia requiring intervention is relatively rare in patients with PAD, and only a minority of patients will go on to require limb amputation. Of those who do have critical limb ischemia, endovascular methods (e.g., angioplasty with placement of endovascular stents, vascular bypass) have become standard of care and limb amputation is generally only used as a last resort.

**D - Deep vein thrombosis** - Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a manifestation of venous thromboembolism, and should always be considered in the differential in patients with asymmetric lower extremity pain. Common risk factors include immobility, malignancy, obesity, and increased age. While atherosclerosis (including PAD) and DVT share some risk factors (e.g., smoking), there is no clear association between PAD and risk of DVT.

**E - Acute mesenteric ischemia** - Presence of PAD suggests systemic atherosclerosis and is associated with increased risk of acute mesenteric ischemia. However, the majority of cases of acute mesenteric ischemia arise from intracardiac emboli (i.e. mural thrombus, valvular disorders, arrhythmias), rather than thrombosis from atherosclerotic disease. The risk of another complication is higher.

