### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Coronary artery vasospasm** - Coronary artery vasospasm is the underlying mechanism of Prinzmetal angina. Episodes of Prinzmetal angina typically occur at rest (in contrast to exertional angina) and common triggers include stress, smoking, alcohol, drugs (e.g., cocaine), and triptan use. The transient appearance of anterior ST-segment elevations (as opposed to depressions) and spontaneous resolution of symptoms in the setting of recent alcohol use and stress support this diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Coronary artery vasodilation** - Coronary artery vasodilation distal to an atherosclerotic stenosis is the underlying cause of coronary steal syndrome. Although this condition also presents with symptoms of angina, symptoms are usually triggered by vasodilators (e.g., dipyridamole, adenosine, or hydralazine), which this patient does not take. Moreover, ECG changes, if present, almost always consist of ST-segment depressions.

**C - Atherosclerotic coronary artery narrowing** - Atherosclerotic narrowing of a coronary artery of > 70% is the underlying mechanism of stable angina, which is typically characterized by exertional chest pain that improves with rest. Physical exertion leads to increased myocardial demand and subsequent transient hypoperfusion of the myocardium (mismatch between oxygen supply and demand). Although this patient has risk factors for atherosclerotic narrowing (e.g., hypertension, hyperlipidemia, smoking), his symptoms are atypical (chest pain at rest) and ST-segment depressions would be expected on ECG.

Image File: 298-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f15713204016.jpg

**D - Pulmonary artery occlusion** - Patients with pulmonary artery occlusion due to pulmonary embolism typically present with pleuritic chest pain, rather than the substernal pain reported here. The absence of dyspnea and prominent risk factors for PE (e.g., recent surgery, immobility, hypercoagulable state) in this patient also make pulmonary artery occlusion an unlikely cause of his symptoms. Moreover, ECG findings are usually normal or suggestive of right heart strain (e.g., right bundle branch block, right axis deviation).

**E - Atherosclerotic plaque rupture** - Atherosclerotic plaque rupture with subsequent thrombosis and acute occlusion of a coronary artery is the underlying mechanism of chest pain due to unstable angina and myocardial infarction (MI). Unstable angina may occur at rest but classically manifests with transient ST-segment depressions on ECG, rather than the ST elevations seen in this patient. MI typically results in ST elevations on ECG, but would not resolve spontaneously within 15 minutes. This patient's ECG findings and resolution of symptoms are inconsistent with either diagnosis and an atherosclerotic plaque rupture is unlikely to be a cause of his symptoms.

**F - Pericardial inflammation** - Pericardial inflammation, which is characteristic of pericarditis, most commonly presents with sharp, positional chest pain (e.g., worse when laying back and relieved when hunched forward), as opposed to the substernal pain reported here. Moreover, ECG typically shows diffuse ST-segment elevations throughout the limb leads and precordial leads (V2–V6) with PR segment depressions.

