### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Synchronized cardioversion** - Unstable Afib, as seen in this patient, should be managed with immediate electrical synchronized cardioversion. Patients of advanced age with underlying heart disease (such as this 63-year-old man with coronary artery disease) are at increased risk of hemodynamic compromise. Signs of hemodynamic instability include hypotension, confusion, symptoms of congestive heart failure (e.g., dyspnea), and chest pain. The goal of synchronized cardioversion is to terminate Afib and thereby restore hemodynamic stability as well as prevent further progression to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. Synchronized cardioversion can also be considered for hemodynamically stable patients with acute onset of Afib (within the past 48 hours).

Image File: 299-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60eff0e9bb089.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous diltiazem** - Diltiazem is a first-line therapy for relieving symptoms and achieving rate control in patients with Afib who are hemodynamically stable.While this patient does have findings of acute Afib on his ECG, he is hypotensive and reports chest pain, both of which are signs of hemodynamic instability.

**B - Coronary angiogram** - Coronary angiogram is indicated in the acute setting for patients with myocardial infarction (MI) who are being evaluated for emergency coronary artery revascularization with surgery or angioplasty. Although this patient has severe chest pain and hypotension that may be consistent with MI, focal ST segment elevations in contiguous ECG leads would be expected in MI, not Afib.

Image File: 299-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d90847dbd.jpg

**C - Intravenous esmolol** - Esmolol is an appropriate first-line therapy to relieve symptoms and achieve rate control in patients with Afib who are hemodynamically stable. While this patient does have findings of acute Afib on his ECG, he is hypotensive and reports severe chest pain, both of which are signs of hemodynamic instability.

**D - Intravenous amiodarone** - Amiodarone is an appropriate treatment for hemodynamically stable ventricular tachycardia (VT). While this patient's chest pain and hypotension could be caused by VT, ECG findings of VT include wide complex tachycardia, with three or more consecutive premature ventricular beats (i.e., a widened QRS interval) at a heart rate > 120 bpm. Although amiodarone is more commonly used as a rhythm control agent, it can also be used for rate control in patients with stable Afib, but only if first-line (beta blockers or calcium channel blockers) and second-line (digoxin) rate control strategies have failed.

Image File: 299-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93559c21.jpg

**F - Radiofrequency ablation** - Radiofrequency ablation is a possible second-line measure for achieving rhythm control in stable Afib. While this patient does have findings of acute Afib on his ECG, he is hypotensive and reports severe chest pain, both of which are signs of hemodynamic instability. Even if he were stable, first-line treatment would be conducted before ablation.

**G - Defibrillation** - Defibrillation or unsynchronized electrical cardioversion is the best initial therapy for patients with ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular tachycardia (also known as shockable rhythms) and is administered alongside cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). While this patient has no visible P waves on ECG, he has a palpable pulse and QRS complexes are identifiable on ECG, which would not be the case in Vfib. Unlike synchronized cardioversion, defibrillation delivers an electric shock that is not synchronous with the QRS complex, and defibrillation of a patient in Afib (with intact QRS complexes) may actually induce Vfib.

Image File: 299-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58fdc53672879.jpg

