### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Coronary artery disease** - This patient presents with xanthelasmas, small nodular lipid deposits that manifest bilaterally on the upper eyelids. Xanthelasmas are a symptom of underlying lipid disorders (e.g., familial hypercholesterolemia, obesity), which increase the risk for atherosclerosis and associated diseases, including coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction, and stroke.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Optic glioma** - Optic gliomas are tumors that are particularly associated with neurofibromatosis type 1, which often manifests initially with impaired eyesight and might also present with seizures. Although disease onset may not occur until adulthood, the lesions on the eyelids of this patient do not resemble the characteristic skin lesions found in neurofibromatosis type 1 (café au lait spots, Lisch nodules).

Image File: 301-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94eef722.jpg

**B - Pneumocystis pneumonia** - Pneumocystis pneumonia is typically seen in immunosuppressed individuals. Immunosuppression, especially HIV, also increases the risk for molluscum contagiosum and Kaposi sarcoma, both of which may affect the face. While immunosuppression could initially manifest with a skin lesion, it is not associated with the xanthelasmas seen in this patient.

Image File: 301-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d948278d7.jpg

**C - Squamous cell carcinoma** - Squamous cell carcinoma is a skin cancer associated with sun exposure, advanced age, and precancerous lesions such as leukoplakia or actinic keratosis. While leukoplakia most commonly presents as a persistent white plaque in the oral cavity, actinic keratoses are erythematous lesions with a sandpaper-like texture that affect sun-exposed skin. The xanthelasmas seen in this patient are not associated with the development of cSCC.

Image File: 301-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5769bf9d0b0df.jpg

**D - Gastric cancer** - Gastric cancer is often asymptomatic until advanced disease stages present with abdominal pain, hematemesis, or gastric outlet obstruction. A further symptom that may occur is malignant acanthosis nigricans, which presents with verrucous skin lesions predominantly on the axillae, groin, or neck. While gastric cancer cannot be ruled out conclusively in an asymptomatic patient without further workup, the xanthelasmas seen in this patient suggest a diagnosis that increases her risk for a different condition.

**E - Early-onset glaucoma** - Early-onset glaucoma is a condition that is often associated with congenital diseases such as Sturge-Weber syndrome. While patients may present with seizures and initially only require glasses to correct refractive errors associated with glaucoma, the diagnosis is usually established in childhood. This patient's skin lesions also do not resemble the characteristic port-wine stain seen in Sturge-Weber syndrome.

**G - Renal angiomyolipoma** - Renal angiomyolipoma is a benign tumor associated with tuberous sclerosis. While the condition can present with seizures and skin lesions that affect the face (adenoma sebaceum), it is not associated with xanthelasmas and is unlikely in the absence of further characteristic symptoms (e.g., intellectual disability, brain tumors, ash-leaf spots).

