### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - X-ray of the chest** - Since many tumors produce proteins and cytokines with thrombophilic effects, malignancy should be ruled out as an underlying cause in cases of a first unprovoked DVT in an adult. In addition to performing a chest x-ray, a basic malignancy workup includes a CBC, renal function tests, liver function tests, and urinalysis (within normal limits in this patient), and the physician should ensure that the patient has received all age appropriate routine cancer screening.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Colonoscopy** - The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening for colorectal cancer in all asymptomatic adults between 45 and 75 years of age who have an average risk (e.g., no inflammatory bowel disease, adenomatous polyps, or family history of an inherited cancer syndrome). The previously recommended age to start screening was 50 years. Colonoscopy every 10 years is an appropriate strategy. Because this patient had his last colonoscopy 8 years ago, which was normal, and lacks symptoms suggestive of colorectal cancer (e.g., weight loss, hematochezia), a colonoscopy is not indicated at this time. His primary, unprovoked DVT requires only routine cancer screening.

**B - Catheter thrombectomy** - Catheter thrombectomy is indicated in a patient with DVT when there is extensive thrombus, insufficient response to anticoagulation, or phlegmasia alba dolens/phlegmasia cerulea dolens. In this patient with a 0.5-cm, uncomplicated DVT, thrombectomy is not indicated.

**C - Inferior vena cava filter** - Placement of an IVC filter is indicated in patients with DVT at high risk for developing pulmonary embolism when there is a contraindication to anticoagulation, thrombolysis, and thrombectomy. This patient has no contraindications to anticoagulation such as active bleeding or an increased risk for severe bleeding (e.g. recent procedures, open wounds, high-risk vascular lesions).

**E - Thrombophilia screening** - Thrombophilia screening (testing for Factor V Leiden mutation, prothrombin mutation, protein C deficiency, and protein S deficiency, with additional tests in select cases) is indicated in patients with a history of multiple unprovoked DVTs, unprovoked DVT prior to the age of 50, DVTs in unusual locations (e.g., upper extremities), a family history of venous thromboembolism, or DVT during pregnancy. Screening is not indicated in this patient, presenting after the age of 50 with his first DVT and no family history.

**F - Abdominal ultrasound** - Abdominal ultrasound is used to screen for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in high-risk patients, including all patients with cirrhosis, and certain patients with hepatitis B and hepatitis C. It is not routinely recommended in low-risk patients, and it is not indicated in the setting of an unprovoked DVT.

**G - Streptokinase therapy** - Thrombolytic therapy, including streptokinase, is indicated for patients with hemodynamically unstable pulmonary emboli and may be considered in some cases of severe proximal DVTs. In the case of distal DVT, however, the bleeding risk of thrombolytic therapy generally outweighs the benefits. Instead, this patient with distal DVT should undergo anticoagulation.

