### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Placement of transcutaneous pacemaker** - Immediate transcutaneous (or transvenous) cardiac pacing is indicated in patients with symptomatic AV block (e.g., Mobitz type II block or third-degree block). Because transcutaneous pacing is only a temporizing measure, the etiology of the third-degree AV block should be further investigated and a long-term solution considered (e.g., permanent cardiac pacing). In this patient, the third-degree AV block may have occurred as an adverse effect of her medication (a beta blocker) and may be reversible.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Observation** - Observation with continuous telemetry may be an appropriate option for patients with asymptomatic and hemodynamically stable bradycardia. Hemodynamically unstable patients with third-degree AV block, however, require intervention, as they are at high risk of asystole and sudden cardiac death.

**B - Adminstration of epinephrine** - Epinephrine is used in the treatment of cardiac arrest and anaphylaxis and can be used as an infusion to treat patients with refractory hypotension. It can also be used for refractory unstable bradycardia, but only if the patient does not respond to first-line treatment.

**C - Administration of dopamine** - Dopamine, a catecholamine that causes vasoconstriction, can be used in hemodynamically unstable patients with third-degree AV block who remain hypotensive despite first-line interventions. Since this patient has not yet received first-line therapy, dopamine is not indicated.

**E - Implantation of cardiac defibrillator** - The implantation of a cardiac defibrillator is indicated in patients at high risk for ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation to prevent sudden cardiac death due to arrhythmia. However, there is no evidence of a ventricular arrhythmia in this patient and a permanent defibrillator would not address her third-degree AV block.

**F - Administration of amiodarone** - Amiodarone is a class III antiarrhythmic medication that can be used in patients with ventricular arrhythmia, supraventricular arrhythmia, and cardiac arrest. Since amiodarone decreases AV node conduction and would thus exacerbate this patient's third-degree AV block, it is contraindicated here.

