### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Propranolol** - Propranolol is a non-selective beta blocker frequently used for migraine headache prophylaxis. This patient has recently been diagnosed with hypertension which will likely require medication. In patients with hypertension and no other comorbidities, thiazide diuretics, ACE inhibitor, calcium channel blockers, and/or angiotensin-receptor blockers should be tried first, before using a beta blocker. However, due to this patient's history of worsening frequency of migraine headaches, treatment with a beta-blocker such as propranolol is adequate as it targets her hypertension and also works as prophylaxis for her migraines.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hydrochlorothiazide** - Hydrochlorothiazide is a diuretic that can be used as first-line for treatment of hypertension. It is especially effective in African-American and salt-sensitive patients. However, this patient would benefit more from a medication that can also target her worsening migraine headaches.

**B - Lisinopril** - Lisinopril is an ACE inhibitor that can be used as first-line treatment for hypertension. However, this patient with a history of worsening migraine headaches would benefit more from an alternative antihypertensive that can treat both of her medical problems. Moreover, ACE inhibitors should generally be avoided in female patients of reproductive age that are sexually active and use contraception inconsistently, as they are known to be teratogenic.

**C - Amlodipine** - Amlodipine is a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker (CCB), which can be used as a first-line drug for the treatment of hypertension. It is especially effective in African-American and patients with isolated systolic hypertension. Although there have been a few case reports on the successful use of CCBs such as amlodipine for migraine prophylaxis, the overall level of evidence is inadequate to support their use. A different FDA-approved drug with a high level of evidence for its efficacy is preferred for migraine prophylaxis in patients with hypertension.

**E - Losartan** - Losartan is an angiotensin-receptor blockers that can be used as first-line treatment for hypertension. It is especially indicated in diabetic patients with proteinuria and hypertension due to its nephroprotective effects, typically as an alternative to an ACE inhibitor. However, this patient with history of worsening migraine headaches would benefit more from an alternative antihypertensive that can treat both of her medical problems. Moreover, ARB should be avoided in female patients of reproductive age that are sexually active, as they are known to be teratogenic.

**F - Sodium nitroprusside** - Sodium nitroprusside is mainly used in the acute setting in patients with hypertensive emergency (blood pressure usually > 180/120 mm Hg) with signs of end-organ damage, which is not present in this patient. Moreover, sodium nitroprusside can cause headaches as a side effect, and it would not address this patient's worsening migraines.

**G - Prazosin** - Prazosin is an alpha blocker typically used to treat hypertension in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) with low cardiovascular risk. Alpha blockers can exacerbate migraines in this patient and are known to cause headaches as a side effect. Moreover, alpha blockers are not considered first-line therapy for hypertension.

