### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Methadone** - Methadone is prescribed in a controlled and highly monitored fashion to help patients control the symptoms associated with opioid withdrawal. It has a longer half life and causes less euphoria than shorter-acting opioids, making it effective at controlling symptoms and minimizing craving. Methadone provides effective management of opioid withdrawal and decreases the rate of relapse.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Lorazepam** - Lorazepam is used to treat anxiety and symptoms of alcohol withdrawal. It does not reduce cravings associated with opioids and is therefore not the best next step in the management of this patient.

**B - Naltrexone** - Naltrexone is used to prevent relapse in opioid use disorder but only in the absence of acute withdrawal symptoms. Administering naltrexone in this patient with opioid withdrawal symptoms would immediately intensify his symptoms because naltrexone is an antagonist that replaces the opioid agonist at the opioid receptor (sometimes referred to as precipitated withdrawal). To ensure compliance and long-term success, a different pharmacotherapy is indicated.

**D - Morphine** - Morphine relieves the symptoms of opioid withdrawal but at the same time causes feeling of euphoria that sustains the addiction. Morphine is therefore not the best drug for managing this patient's addiction.

**E - Naloxone** - Naloxone is used to treat opioid overdose. Administering this opioid receptor antagonist in this patient with opioid withdrawal symptoms would intensify the symptoms (precipitated withdrawal). To ensure compliance and long-term success of withdrawal therapy, a different medication is indicated.

