### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Mitral valve regurgitation** - This patient's auscultatory findings indicate mitral regurgitation as the cause of his left-sided heart failure. Mitral murmurs are heard best during expiration and while the patients lies on the left side. Causes of primary mitral regurgitation include degenerative mitral valve disease (mitral valve prolapse, mitral annular calcification, ruptured chordae tendineae), infective endocarditis, and rheumatic fever.

Image File: 312-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6009e71c49202.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Pericarditis** - This patient presents with some features of pericarditis including fatigue, palpitations, and exertional dyspnea, which are often preceded by flu-like symptoms. But he lacks other typical findings, such as fever, and sharp, pleuritic chest pain, and does not have a high-pitched scratching sound (pericardial friction rub).

**C - Tricuspid valve regurgitation** - Although tricuspid regurgitation is also a holosystolic murmur, it is heard best at the lower parasternal region, does not radiate to the axilla, and does not have a blowing quality. Like all right-sided heart murmurs, it is intensified during deep inspiration. In contrast, this patient's murmur is intensified on expiration. Moreover, tricuspid valve regurgitation is extremely rare and would typically present with symptoms of right-sided heart failure, such as peripheral pitting edema and jugular venous distention.

**D - Pulmonary valve stenosis** - Pulmonary stenosis primarily presents during early childhood as a systolic crescendo-decrescendo murmur heard best at the 2nd left ICS. In adults, common causes include carcinoid syndrome and chronic rheumatic fever. Like all right-sided heart murmurs, it is intensified during deep inspiration rather than during expiration as in this patient. Moreover, pulmonary valve stenosis is rare and would typically present with symptoms of right-sided heart failure, such as peripheral pitting edema and jugular venous distention.

**E - Aortic valve regurgitation** - Although this patient's left-sided heart failure could be explained by aortic regurgitation, it would present as a high-frequency, blowing decrescendo murmur during early diastole that is heard best in the left third and fourth ICSs and along the left sternal border.

Image File: 312-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8965271b4.jpg

**F - Mitral valve stenosis** - Although this patient's left-sided heart failure could be explained by mitral stenosis, it would present as a low-frequency, mid-diastolic (not systolic) rumble and loud S1 heard best at the apex (typically the 5th left ICS at the midclavicular line).

Image File: 312-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb87d493973.jpg

**G - Aortic valve stenosis** - Although this patient's left-sided heart failure could be explained by aortic stenosis, it would present as a harsh mid-systolic, crescendo-decrescendo murmur that may radiate bilaterally to the carotids and is heard best in the 2nd ICS at the right upper sternal border.

Image File: 312-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8e498f442.jpg

