### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Glucagon** - Intravenous glucagon is part of the initial treatment for symptomatic patients with beta-blocker overdose who do not respond to IV fluids and atropine alone. Excessive beta-adrenergic blockade most commonly manifests as bradycardia and hypotension. In severe cases, profound myocardial depression and cardiogenic shock can occur. Glucagon increases intracellular cAMP by activating adenylate cyclase, which improves cardiac contractility while bypassing the beta receptors.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Activated charcoal** - Activated charcoal may be used in acute poisoning to bind medications in the gastrointestinal tract and prevent their absorption. However, activated charcoal is effective within a maximum of 1–2 hours of the ingestion. It would therefore likely not be effective in this patient. While administration of activated charcoal may still be considered once the airway has been secured, a different step in management is indicated more urgently.

**C - Sodium bicarbonate** - While sodium bicarbonate is used to treat propranolol overdose, it is not effective in the treatment of other types of beta blocker toxicity. In addition to the typical manifestations of beta blocker toxicity, propranolol causes QRS widening due to sodium channel blockade. This patient's narrow QRS complexes are unlikely to be due propranolol.

**D - Hemodialysis** - Hemodialysis may be used in severe cases of toxicity with hydrophilic beta blockers (e.g., atenolol, nadolol). However, hemodialysis in these cases would be considered only after first-line management failed.

**E - Pralidoxime** - Pralidoxime is used in the treatment of cholinergic syndrome (e.g., caused by organophosphate poisoning). Although this syndrome can cause bradycardia and wheezing (due to bronchoconstriction), other typical manifestations of this syndrome would also be expected, such as diarrhea, uncontrolled urination, miosis, salivation, and sweating. Furthermore, this patient's hypoglycemia would not typically occur in cholinergic syndrome.

**F - Naloxone** - Naloxone is the first-line treatment for opioid overdose and can also be used in the treatment of clonidine toxicity. While both types of toxicity can present with bradycardia, hypotension, and CNS depression, they also cause miosis and hypothermia, which are not seen in this patient.

**G - Digoxin-specific antibody** - Digoxin-specific antibody fragments (Fab) are the treatment of choice for digitalis poisoning. However, digitalis toxicity typically presents with nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhea, and blurry vision with a yellow tint, which is not consistent with this patient's presentation.

