### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Prescribe oral atenolol** - Atenolol is a β1-selective adrenergic receptor blocker used as first-line therapy to improve exercise tolerance and reduce the frequency of anginal episodes in patients with stable ischemic heart disease. Like other β-blockers, atenolol relieves anginal pain by decreasing heart rate and cardiac contractility, which reduces myocardial oxygen demand. Although β-blockers also inhibit adrenergic-mediated coronary vasodilation, the resulting increase in coronary vascular resistance is overcome by the reduction in heart rate, which improves coronary perfusion by prolonging diastole. In addition to pharmacotherapy (which includes antiplatelet therapy, lipid-lowering therapy, and management of hypertension and diabetes), risk-reducing strategies include weight loss, smoking cessation, and aerobic exercise.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Prescribe low-dose oral aspirin** - Aspirin irreversibly inhibits COX-1, which results in the inhibition of platelet aggregation. Antiplatelet therapy reduces the risk of complications of stable angina (e.g., myocardial infarction) and is indicated for all patients with ischemic heart disease who do not have specific contraindications to antiplatelet drugs. However, aspirin therapy does not improve exercise tolerance or reduce anginal pain in patients with stable angina.

**B - Perform percutaneous coronary intervention** - Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is usually performed for the emergency diagnosis and treatment of acute coronary syndrome. In stable angina, as seen here, PCI is only indicated if there are activity-limiting symptoms despite optimal medical therapy, contraindications to medical therapy, or stenosis of multiple or critical coronary arteries (e.g., left coronary artery), none of which is present in this patient.

**C - Prescribe oral verapamil** - Verapamil causes coronary and peripheral vasodilation and reduces cardiac contractility, which reduces myocardial oxygen demand. Therefore, it can reduce anginal symptoms in patients with stable ischemic heart disease, which is seen here. However, calcium channel blockers are considered a second-line therapy for the treatment of stable angina.

**E - Prescribe sublingual nitroglycerin as needed** - Nitroglycerin is a short-acting nitrate that dilates the coronary vasculature and decreases left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (preload) to improve coronary perfusion and reduce myocardial oxygen demand. Therefore, it can reduce anginal symptoms in patients with stable ischemic heart disease. Although nitroglycerin is a first-line therapy for the relief of acute anginal symptoms, it does not improve long-term exercise tolerance.

