### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Physiologic finding** - Splitting of S2 during inspiration is a common physiologic finding that occurs because of a decrease in intrathoracic pressure during inspiration. Decreased intrathoracic pressure leads to increased venous return to the right side of the heart, which results in prolonged right ventricular systole and delayed closure of the pulmonic valve (P2). During inspiration, there is also decreased blood flow to the left side of the heart due to pooling within the pulmonary vasculature, resulting in early closure of the aortic valve (A2). A physiologic split S2 is more common in young individuals and requires no further evaluation.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pericarditis** - Acute pericarditis can occur following a viral upper respiratory tract infection, like the self-limiting infection that this patient had one week ago. However, this patient does not have the characteristic features of pericarditis, including fever and pleuritic chest pain. In addition, cardiac auscultation would reveal a pericardial friction rub (a high-pitched scratching sound that is heard best during expiration with the patient sitting up and leaning forward), not a split S2.

**B - Myocarditis** - Myocarditis can develop in young individuals following a viral upper respiratory tract infection, such as the self-limiting infection that this patient had one week ago. However, this patient does not have typical features of myocarditis, such as fever, fatigue, dyspnea, and chest pain. In addition, cardiac auscultation findings in a patient with myocarditis include the third heart sound (S3), fourth heart sound (S4), and systolic murmurs of functional mitral regurgitation or tricuspid regurgitation due to dilated cardiomyopathy. Myocarditis does not cause a split S2.

**C - Atrial septal defect** - An atrial septal defect (ASD) is the most common congenital heart defect in adults and can be asymptomatic in younger individuals. Although an ASD can manifest with a split S2, it typically causes fixed splitting (i.e., the split does not change with respiration). In addition, patients with an ASD often have a systolic ejection murmur over the left upper sternal border, which is not heard in this patient.

**D - Hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy** - Hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM) is frequently asymptomatic and can be detected during routine screening of young athletes. Although HOCM can manifest with a split S2, a paradoxical splitting is typically seen in which the split is more pronounced during expiration rather than inspiration. This phenomenon is caused by delayed closure of the aortic valve (A2) due to left ventricular outflow tract obstruction. In addition, patients with HOCM usually also have a crescendo-decrescendo systolic ejection murmur, which is not heard in this patient.

**E - Aortic stenosis** - Aortic stenosis (AS) is most commonly caused by aortic valve sclerosis but can develop in younger patients with a bicuspid aortic valve due to dystrophic calcification and degeneration. Less commonly, AS can develop secondary to rheumatic fever, which typically develops 2–4 weeks after an untreated infection with group A Streptococcus; this patient's untreated respiratory infection one week ago was self-limiting. Severe AS can cause a split S2, but it is typically heard during expiration, not inspiration. Moreover, the characteristic cardiac auscultation finding of AS is a harsh, crescendo-decrescendo, late systolic ejection murmur that radiates bilaterally to the carotid arteries, which is not heard in this patient.

**G - Mitral valve prolapse** - Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) is the most common heart valve abnormality and can be seen in young individuals, most of whom are asymptomatic. Cardiac auscultation in an individual with MVP would reveal a high-frequency, midsystolic click followed by a high-frequency, mid-to-late systolic murmur that is heard best at the mitral region and may radiate to the axilla. MVP does not cause a split S2.

