### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Endothelial cell dysfunction** - The development of atherosclerosis begins with an external factor (e.g., hypertension, smoking, advanced glycation end-products) damaging the endothelium, which increases adhesiveness and leads to local inflammation and invasion of smooth muscle cells into the tunica intima. Inflammatory cytokines attract macrophages, which then form foam cells by taking up cholesterol from oxidized low-density lipids. These foam cells accumulate to form fatty streaks (early atherosclerotic lesions). Finally, collagen production by lipid-laden macrophages and SMCs form these fatty streaks into a fibrous plaque.

Image File: 321-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f43ebf25ecda.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intimal smooth muscle cell migration** - Intimal smooth muscle cells migration is mediated by macrophages producing platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF). However, intimal smooth muscle cell migration is not the initial step of atherosclerosis.

**B - Intimal monocyte infiltration** - Intimal monocyte infiltration is one of the first steps in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. After adhesion to the endothelium, the monocytes emigrate through the endothelium into the intima. As the endothelium is physiologically impermeable to monocytes, monocyte infiltration is not the initial step of atherosclerosis.

**C - Platelet activation** - Platelet activation releases a variety of inflammatory mediators and thereby recruits inflammatory cells towards the site of the atherosclerotic lesion. However, platelets are only activated after adhesion to the endothelium of affected vessels. Therefore, platelet activation is not the initial step of atherosclerosis.

**D - Low density lipoprotein oxidation** - Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation releases cholesterol, which is then ingested by macrophages, inducing foam cell formation. However, attraction and activation of macrophages happen before the formation of foam cells. Therefore, LDL oxidation is not the initial step of atherosclerosis.

**F - Intimal foam cell accumulation** - Intimal foam cell accumulation is a consequence of macrophages infiltrating the intima and ingesting cholesterol from oxidized LDL. These foam cells accumulate and form fatty streaks. However, intimal foam cell accumulation is not the initial step of atherosclerosis.

**G - Fibrous plaque formation** - Fibrous plaque formation is mediated by macrophages, lymphocytes, and smooth muscle cells. Together with deposited extracellular matrix (e.g., collagen), these cell types form the fibrous plaque in atherosclerosis. However, fibrous plaque formation is not the initial step of atherosclerosis.

