### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Administration of atropine** - Atropine is an anticholinergic agent that is used to increase heart rate. Intravenous atropine is the first-line treatment in patients who present with symptomatic bradycardia when there are no reversible causes that can be immediately identified. Asymptomatic patients do not require treatment.

Image File: 326-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cd1a7dd34879.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administration of dopamine** - Dopamine can be used to treat bradycardia and hypotension and may also be considered for hemodynamically unstable patients with symptomatic bradycardia. Dopamine is usually reserved for patients that are unresponsive to first-line treatment, which has not yet been given here.

**B - Fluid repletion with crystalloids** - Crystalloid solutions (e.g., normal saline) are used to treat hypotension caused by hypovolemia. However, this patient's hypotension is caused by bradycardia (of unknown cause) and is not due to loss of fluids. Hypovolemic patients would be tachycardic.

**D - Administration of norepinephrine** - Norepinephrine increases total peripheral vascular resistance and can, therefore, be used to treat hypotension. However, a different treatment would be more effective for this patient's bradycardia with reduced cardiac output.

**E - Administration of epinephrine** - Epinephrine can be used to treat bradycardia and hypotension and may also be considered for hemodynamically unstable patients with symptomatic bradycardia. However, it is usually reserved for patients that are unresponsive to first-line treatment, which has not yet been given here.

**F - Administration of glucagon** - Glucagon can be administered to patients with symptomatic bradycardia that is not responsive to therapy with the first-line agent. It is also an option in patients with suspected drug-induced bradycardia (esp. from beta blockers) or severe hypoglycemia.

**G - Transcutaneous pacemaker placement** - Immediate transcutaneous pacing is indicated in patients presenting with symptomatic AV block (e.g., Mobitz type II block or third-degree block). It is also an option in patients with severely symptomatic bradycardia or in those patients that are unresponsive to first-line treatment, which has not yet been given here.

