### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Reassurance** - This patient's occasional morning dizziness and palpitations may be caused by the APBs seen on ECG. However, given that the patient is asymptomatic at the time the ECG is carried out, her prior dizziness and palpitations are unlikely to be related to the finding of APBs. Asymptomatic patients experiencing APBs do not require treatment and should be reassured that this condition is a harmless type of arrhythmia in healthy individuals. In addition, this patient should be advised to avoid potential triggers of APBs, including caffeine, alcohol, and stress. Even though APBs are usually benign, echocardiography and cardiac monitoring (via Holter monitor) should be considered to rule out underlying structural heart disease.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Event recorder implantation** - An event recorder can be used to diagnose intermittent episodes of atrial fibrillation. In symptomatic patients with suspected APBs and inconclusive noninvasive monitoring, an event recorder may be implanted to help diagnose the underlying condition. This patient's ECG findings have already confirmed the diagnosis of APBs, during which she is asymptomatic. Thus, implanting an event recorder would be unnecessarily invasive.

**C - Valsalva maneuver** - The Valsalva maneuver is the first step in therapeutic intervention of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT), which may occur secondary to APBs. Although this condition is rare, most cases are seen in young women like this patient. This patient may develop PSVT at some point, but current ECG findings only show APBs without tachycardia.

**D - Stress echocardiography** - Stress echocardiography is a useful method for diagnosing various cardiac conditions, including coronary artery disease, pulmonary hypertension, and valvular diseases. Normal echocardiography may be useful to assess myocardial structure and contractility in this patient. However, stress echocardiography is usually not indicated in otherwise healthy individuals with APBs.

**E - Administration of metoprolol** - Medical therapy for symptomatic APBs should be considered after a trial of trigger avoidance (e.g., avoiding caffeine, alcohol, stress, smoking). Beta blockers, e.g., metoprolol (a class II antiarrhythmic agent), reduce the symptoms and frequency of APBs and would be the first-line therapy in the absence of contraindications. This patient does not require medical treatment at the moment, as her symptoms are most likely not related to the APBs seen on ECG.

**F - Administration of flecainide** - Medical therapy for symptomatic APBs should be considered after a trial of trigger avoidance (e.g., avoiding caffeine, alcohol, stress, smoking). Beta blockers or other antiarrhythmic drugs like flecainide can be used to reduce the symptoms and frequency of APBs. Because all antiarrhythmics can potentially trigger arrhythmia themselves, risks should be weighed very carefully. This patient does not require medical treatment at the moment, as her symptoms are most likely not related to the APBs seen on ECG.

