### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Acute rheumatic fever** - This patient's recently untreated sore throat suggests group A streptococcal infection. There is evidence of heart failure (edema, dyspnea, S3, JVD, cardiac silhouette enlargement), and the rash described is consistent with erythema marginatum. Acute rheumatic fever is the unifying diagnosis, and he meets two of the major Jones criteria (carditis and erythema marginatum).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Viral myocarditis** - Viral myocarditis can also present with symptoms of heart failure. While this patient has jugular venous distention, ankle edema, and x-ray findings consistent with heart failure, his rash (erythema marginatum) suggests an alternative etiology.

**C - Systemic lupus erythematosus** - Rash is one of the most common presenting symptoms of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and SLE can also affect all layers of the heart (pancarditis). However, the rash seen in SLE is typically a malar rash or discoid rash, as opposed to the rash in this patient, which is suggestive of erythema marginatum. Other common features of SLE which are not present in this patient include arthritis, arthralgia, and/or fatigue.

**D - Infection with Borrelia burgdorferi** - Lyme disease can present with a ring-like rash with central clearing (erythema migrans) and can also cause carditis. However, Lyme carditis typically presents as a new cardiac arrhythmia (AV block, sudden death) and rarely as congestive heart failure due to pericarditis. Furthermore, Lyme carditis is a late manifestation of disseminated disease and unlikely to occur simultaneously with the rash.

**E - Kawasaki disease** - This patient has had a fever for the past 5 days, which is a key diagnostic feature of Kawasaki disease. Although myocarditis is a known complication of Kawasaki disease and can present with signs of congestive heart failure, this patient lacks other salient symptoms of Kawasaki disease such as mucositis, lymphadenopathy, and conjunctivitis. Furthermore, his skin rash is not desquamative but is rather suggestive of erythema marginatum.

