### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Chlorthalidone** - According to the American College of Cardiology (ACC) and American Heart Association (AHA), as well as the Eight Joint National Committee (JNC-8), chlorthalidone is a preferred first-line drug for African American patients with isolated hypertension. Thiazide diuretics are considered especially effective antihypertensive agents because impaired salt excretion and subsequent intravascular volume expansion are thought to be the primary drivers of hypertension in this patient group. These guideline societies agree that thiazides are more effective in controlling blood pressure in African Americans than other antihypertensives. In addition, the risk of adverse effects (e.g., angioedema, cough) to agents preferred in other patient groups has been shown to be higher in African Americans. Hypokalemia, hyperglycemia, and hypercalcemia are all adverse effects of chronic chlorthalidone use; hyperglycemia, especially, limits the use of chlorthalidone in patients with metabolic syndrome. Dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers can also be used as a first-line therapy in African American patients, particularly those with metabolic syndrome.

While we wholeheartedly support correcting medical content that reflects race-based biases, we also want students to be optimally prepared for their exams. We have continued to include this question in our Qbank for the time being because it reflects the most current guideline recommendations on treatment of hypertension, so the concept may still be tested on your exams. These recommendations have recently come into question (and rightly so) and will likely be reviewed by the ACC/AHA and the JNC; we will update our Qbank accordingly.

For reference, see the ACC/AHA guidelines https://www.ahajournals.org/doi/10.1161/HYP.0000000000000065 as well as the JNC-8 guidelines https://www.aafp.org/afp/2014/1001/p503.html along with https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/1791497. To read more about race and discrimination in medicine, see https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMms2025768.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Valsartan** - Valsartan, along with other angiotensin receptor blockers, is indicated for the treatment of hypertension in patients with diabetes mellitus, renal disease, ischemic heart disease, and/or heart failure who do not tolerate ACE inhibitors. This patient does not meet these criteria. As such, valsartan is not a recommended treatment for this patient.

**B - Spironolactone** - Spironolactone is an aldosterone (mineralocorticoid) receptor antagonist that can be used to treat hypertension due to primary hyperaldosteronism or as adjunct therapy in other forms of treatment-resistant hypertension. This patient has not received treatment before, so he does not meet the criteria for treatment-resistant hypertension.

**C - Metoprolol** - Metoprolol is a second-line therapy for hypertension that is typically used in patients with cardiovascular comorbidities such as ischemic heart disease, heart failure, or atrial fibrillation. Metoprolol is not indicated as a first-line therapy for isolated hypertension in any patient group.

**E - Aliskiren** - Aliskiren is a direct renin inhibitor that decreases RAAS activity, which in turn decreases the amount of angiotensin II and aldosterone in circulation, lowering blood pressure. Aliskiren is used to treat arterial hypertension in situations in which neither ACE inhibitors nor angiotensin-receptor blockers are tolerated. Aliskiren is not the recommended first-line therapy for this patient.

**F - Captopril** - Captopril (an ACE inhibitor) is a first-line antihypertensive drug in patients with diabetes mellitus, renal disease, ischemic heart disease, and/or heart failure. It reduces angiotensin II and aldosterone and thereby lowers blood pressure. However, ACE inhibitors are not recommended by the American College of Cardiology or the Eight Joint National Committee (JNC-8) as first-line agents for monotherapy in African American patients because their use is associated with a higher incidence of adverse effects (angioedema, cough) and multiple studies have shown that other types of antihypertensive drugs are more effective. These recommendations have recently come into question and will likely be reviewed by the respective guideline societies.

