### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Ibuprofen and colchicine therapy** - Anti-inflammatory therapy to control pain and prevent recurrence is the mainstay of management in patients with acute pericarditis because this condition is most often self-limited. While NSAID therapy (e.g., with ibuprofen) usually provides symptomatic relief, it is often used in combination with colchicine, which improves response to therapy and reduces recurrence rates. In patients with nonviral underlying causes (e.g., bacterial, autoimmune, uremic), specific therapy is also indicated; this patient's history of recent upper respiratory tract infection suggests a viral etiology and, therefore, no other specific treatment is indicated. Patients should restrict physical activity until symptoms have resolved and CRP has normalized; for athletes, ECG and echocardiogram findings should also be normal before training is resumed.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - CT pulmonary angiography** - CT pulmonary angiography is the most definitive diagnostic test for pulmonary embolism (PE), which manifests with acute, pleuritic chest pain, fever, and dyspnea, all of which are seen here. However, this patient has no features of DVT, a history of prior venous thromboembolism, surgery/immobilization, hemoptysis, or malignancy. Therefore, the Wells score for this patient is zero and CT angiography is not indicated. Moreover, ECG findings in PE include sinus tachycardia, an SIQIIITIII pattern, new right bundle branch block, and right axis deviation, not diffuse ST elevations, which are seen on this patient's ECG.

Image File: 333-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60a756cb5a8f0.jpg

**C - Blood cultures** - Blood cultures are an essential diagnostic test in patients with infective endocarditis (IE), which typically manifests with fever and pleuritic chest pain, similar to what is seen here. However, additional symptoms are expected, such as a new heart murmur and the development of extracardiac symptoms (e.g., splinter hemorrhages, Osler nodules, Roth spots, Janeway lesions), none of which are seen in this patient. Moreover, in IE, echocardiography typically shows vegetation; this patient's echocardiogram shows no abnormalities.

**D - Chest x-ray** - A chest x-ray is indicated for all patients with suspected pneumonia, which manifests with fever, pleuritic chest pain, and dyspnea, similar to what is seen here. Auscultation findings in pneumonia include crackles and bronchial breath sounds. This patient, however, has clean lungs on auscultation. In patients with acute pericarditis, a chest x-ray can be performed to exclude other diagnoses (e.g., pulmonary infection, malignancy) and assess for complications (e.g., large pericardial effusions). Since this patient fulfills the diagnostic criteria for pericarditis and echocardiography shows no pericardial effusion, a chest x-ray is of little diagnostic value.

**E - Pericardiocentesis** - In patients with acute pericarditis, like this one, pericardiocentesis is used either as a diagnostic test (if purulent or malignant pericarditis is suspected) or as a therapeutic procedure (in concomitant large pericardial effusions or cardiac tamponade). This patient's acute pericarditis, however, most likely has a viral etiology and echocardiography shows no pericardial effusions; therefore, pericardiocentesis is not indicated.

**F - Clopidogrel and aspirin therapy** - Dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel is indicated for patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS), which manifests with acute retrosternal chest pain and dyspnea, both of which are seen here. Chest pain in ACS is usually described as a dull, squeezing pressure or tightness. This patient's chest pain, however, is pleuritic. Additionally, ECG findings include ST elevation in anatomically contiguous leads that correspond to the infarcted area rather than diffuse ST elevations, which this patient has. Moreover, troponin T and creatinine kinase levels are increased in ACS.

Image File: 333-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a2598b3bd4df.jpg

