### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Metoprolol** - Metoprolol and other beta blockers are the preferred first-line agents for patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). Beta blockers provide rate control, which allows for a longer diastole and greater diastolic filling. In addition, these drugs reduce contractile force, which leads to a reduced left ventricular outflow tract pressure gradient and reduced myocardial oxygen demand. Furthermore, refraining from intense physical exercise is indicated in all patients with this condition, even those receiving pharmacotherapy, because of the increased risk of sudden cardiac death. Primary prophylactic ICD placement should be considered in patients with a family history of HCM-related sudden cardiac death and/or syncope, such as this patient.

Image File: 334-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8e498f442.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ramipril** - Ramipril is an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor. One of the major effects of these medications is to decrease afterload. In patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, this would result in a detrimental increase in the pressure gradient across the left ventricular outflow tract. Because this would cause this patient's symptoms to worsen, this drug is contraindicated.

**B - Septal myectomy** - Septal myectomy is an effective treatment for patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and leads to decreased left ventricular outflow tract pressure gradient, decreased symptom frequency, and increased exercise tolerance. The best results have been observed in young, healthy patients without other cardiac risk factors, such as this patient. However, due to the invasive nature of the procedure, it is reserved for patients who are refractory to maximal medical therapy. It would therefore not be the most appropriate treatment at this time.

**C - Verapamil** - Verapamil and other nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers are useful agents but are considered a second-line treatment for patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. This class of drugs provides heart rate control, permitting longer diastole and increased diastolic filling.

**D - Amlodipine** - Amlodipine is a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker. Administration of this medication results in peripheral vasodilation (decreased afterload), which would result in a detrimental increase in the pressure gradient across the left ventricular outflow tract. For this reason, amlodipine is contraindicated in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

**E - Cardiac pacemaker** - Placement of a cardiac pacemaker may be considered in symptomatic patients with medical treatment-refractory hypertrophic cardiomyopathy who are not candidates for septal myectomy and/or have a clinical indication for permanent pacing. Because this patient has not received first-line treatment, cardiac pacing is not appropriate at this time.

**F - Radiofrequency ablation** - Radiofrequency ablation is an option for treating recalcitrant atrial fibrillation, which is a complication in a minority of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. There is no evidence that this patient is suffering from atrial fibrillation. Moreover, ablation of the arrhythmogenic focus would be appropriate only after attempting medical therapy (such as rate/rhythm control and anticoagulation).

