### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Myxomatous valve degeneration** - Myxomatous degeneration is caused by the accumulation of dermatan sulfate within the connective tissue of the mitral valve. In developed countries, it is the most common cause of mitral valve degeneration and subsequent mitral valve prolapse. As the disease course progresses, mitral regurgitation can occur. This patient presents with common features of mitral valve prolapse (palpitations, anxiety, chest pain, mid-systolic click). The new-onset dyspnea, holosystolic murmur, and crackles on lung auscultation are consistent with acute regurgitation of the mitral valve, indicating a more advanced disease process.

Image File: 336-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8d86971a6.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ectopic production of serotonin** - Ectopic production of serotonin occurs in carcinoid syndrome. In extraintestinal carcinoid tumors and carcinoid tumors that have metastasized to the liver, increased serotonin that bypasses hepatic first-pass metabolism and enters the right heart can lead to fibrotic degeneration of valves and, as a result, pulmonary valve or tricuspid valve disease (i.e., carcinoid heart disease). The left side of the heart (including the mitral valve) is very rarely affected because serotonin is broken down by pulmonary enzymes before entering the left atrium. This patient's murmur is best heard at the apex, which is not consistent with murmurs heard in right-sided valvular disease. Moreover, this patient lacks classic findings of carcinoid syndrome such as flushing, recurrent diarrhea, telangiectasia, and asthmatic wheezing.

**C - Calcific valve degeneration** - Calcification is a common degenerative process involving the mitral annulus that can result (depending on the severity) in mitral stenosis and/or regurgitation. However, in most cases, calcific valve degeneration is asymptomatic and has only a negligible influence on mitral valve function. It is the most common cause of aortic valve stenosis, not mitral valve regurgitation. Patients with aortic stenosis may present with exertional dyspnea, angina pectoris-like symptoms, and a systolic murmur. However, aortic valve stenosis often also manifests with exertional dizziness or syncope and causes a late systolic, crescendo-decrescendo murmur at the right upper sternal border that radiates bilaterally to the carotids – not a holosystolic murmur heard loudest at the apex.

Image File: 336-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8e498f442.jpg

**D - Inflammatory valve degeneration** - Inflammatory valve degeneration occurs in rheumatic heart disease, a late sequela of group A streptococcal infection, which often affects the mitral valve. Earlier stages of rheumatic heart disease most often involve mitral valve regurgitation, which then later develops into mitral stenosis. The pathogenesis of the disease involves cross-reactivity to the group A streptococci (molecular mimicry), which results in the development of autoimmune antibodies. While this patient has a history of streptococcal pharyngitis, he was adequately treated with penicillin, which makes rheumatic heart disease unlikely.

**E - Overproduction of catecholamines** - Excessive catecholamine release is seen in patients with pheochromocytoma. While patients with pheochromocytoma often have bouts of intense palpitations and elevated blood pressure, other common symptoms include pallor, throbbing headache, diaphoresis, and hypertensive crisis, which are absent in this patient. Furthermore, pheochromocytoma would not account for this patient's dyspnea and the holosystolic murmur.

