### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Normal bereavement** - This patient is going through the normal grieving process in response to her recent loss. Although she shows some symptoms associated with major depressive disorder (depressed mood, weight loss, insomnia), she expresses no feelings of hopelessness or anhedonia. Instead, she has continued participating in church activities with her friends and keeps in contact with her family. Some depressive symptoms may occur normally in bereavement and care must be taken not to diagnose MDD if the patient does not meet all the necessary criteria.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Schizoaffective disorder** - The diagnosis of schizoaffective disorder requires that patients meet criteria for a mood disorder (major depressive episode or manic episode) while exhibiting psychotic symptoms consistent with schizophrenia. In addition, psychotic symptoms must be present in the absence of a mood disorder episode for at least 2 weeks. This patient has been experiencing auditory hallucinations after the loss of her husband, but she does not meet criteria for a mood disorder episode or schizophrenia.

**C - Acute stress disorder** - Acute stress disorder occurs in response to traumatic experiences and classically presents with flashbacks of the event (especially with triggering stimuli), active avoidance of flashback triggers, and symptoms of increased arousal (e.g., hypervigilance, irritability). Although this patient experienced traumatic loss and has negative mood symptoms as well as mild intrusive symptoms (dreams of her husband), she does not have any of the dissociative, avoidance, or arousal symptoms that are further required to make this diagnosis.

**D - Major depressive disorder** - Major depressive disorder (MDD) with psychotic features can present as persistent feelings of sadness with delusions and/or hallucinations (such as hearing her husband's voice). Although this patient presents with some symptoms of a major depressive episode (depressed mood, weight loss, insomnia), she does not have at least 5 of the required symptoms (which also include anhedonia, feelings of worthlessness or guilt, lack of concentration, restlessness or psychomotor retardation, fatigue and recurrent thoughts of suicide) and therefore does not meet criteria for this diagnosis.

**E - Adjustment disorder with depressed mood** - Adjustment disorder with depressed mood is characterized by emotional or behavioral symptoms that develop within 3 months of a stressful event. To establish a diagnosis of adjustment disorder, the symptoms must cause significant impairment in daily functioning and must not be part of a normal response, which is not the case in this patient.

