### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Perivalvular thickening with an echolucent cavity** - Perivalvular thickening with an echolucent cavity suggestive of abscess formation is most likely to be seen on TEE of this patient. Perivalvular abscess should always be suspected if patients with infective endocarditis develop a new conduction abnormality. A third-degree AV block is a complete block with no conduction between the atria and ventricles.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - A highly echogenic, thin, linear structure in the right atrium** - A highly echogenic, thin, linear structure in the right atrium is typically associated with a pacemaker or with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator. The vignette does not mention a previous history of cardiac problems (e.g., arrhythmias) in this patient.

**B - Heterogeneous mass attached to the interatrial septum** - Cardiac myxoma is the most common primary tumor of the heart in adults and usually presents with an early diastolic sound. Patients may also have constitutional symptoms (fever, weight loss, night sweats) and repeated syncopal episodes. Although the patient here has an early diastolic murmur and fever, he has not had syncope, weight loss, or night sweats. Additionally, he has specific findings (splinter hemorrhages, Janeway lesions) indicating IE rather than cardiac myxoma.

**C - Anechoic space between pericardium and epicardium** - An anechoic space between the pericardium and epicardium is seen in patients with cardiac tamponade. Patients with cardiac tamponade typically present with hypotension, muffled heart sounds, distended neck veins, tachycardia, pulsus paradoxus, and electrical alternans on the ECG. Although the patient in the vignette presents with hypotension and tachycardia, he does not have any further symptoms of cardiac tamponade.

**E - Oscillating mobile mass on the tricuspid valve** - An oscillating mobile mass on the tricuspid valve would be seen in patients with IE that affects the tricuspid valve. Right-sided IE usually occurs in IV drug users like this patient. However, right-sided valvular lesions rarely lead to conduction abnormalities. Instead, conduction abnormalities are usually associated with IE of the aortic valve, which is consistent with this patient's auscultatory findings.

**F - Eccentric hypertrophy of the left ventricle** - Eccentric hypertrophy of the left ventricle (LV) is typically seen in chronic aortic regurgitation. Although this patient presents with acute aortic regurgitation, he is unlikely to have eccentric hypertrophy since the aortic regurgitation is new-onset. ECG findings in patients with LV hypertrophy include left axis deviation and a positive Sokolow-Lyon index, but this patient's ECG shows a third-degree atrioventricular block. Although this patient may develop eccentric hypertrophy as a complication if he is not properly treated, it is unlikely at this time.

