### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Obtain an ECG and troponin T levels** - An ECG and troponin test should be ordered to evaluate for acute coronary syndrome (ACS). This patient has acute chest pain that is associated with shortness of breath, diaphoresis, and nausea, which should raise suspicion of an MI. She has many risk factors for perioperative ACS, including a history of coronary artery disease, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and a 12 pack-year smoking history. The patient's history of ischemic heart disease and insulin-dependent diabetes entails a ∼ 6.6% perioperative risk of a major cardiac event, based on the revised cardiac risk index.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Obtain CT pulmonary angiography** - CT angiography is used to diagnose pulmonary embolism, which can also present with chest pain and shortness of breath. A Well's score for PE > 4 is generally considered an indication for anticoagulation and CT angiography (recommendations vary). Patients with a score ≤ 4 should undergo a D-dimer test first. Both recent surgery (1.5 points) and malignancy (1 point) are risk factors for PE. However, this patient lacks other features of PE such as tachycardia, clinical features of deep vein thrombosis, hemoptysis, and a history of PE. The findings of acute chest pain, diaphoresis, and nausea, in a patient with a history of coronary artery disease, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and a 12 pack-year smoking history, make another diagnosis more likely than PE. Therefore, because she has a Wells score for PE of 2.5, D-dimers should be measured, but a CT-A is not necessary at this time.

Image File: 343-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5950db0127671.jpg

**C - Administer IV pantoprazole and schedule endoscopy** - IV pantoprazole is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) that is used for the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and for prophylaxis against postoperative stress ulcers. Although the patient has a history of GERD and a sharp, burning chest pain, other aspects of her history (e.g., shortness of breath and multiple cardiac risk factors) indicate that another diagnosis should be more urgently investigated. Also, upper endoscopy would be pursued in the early postoperative period only if upper gastrointestinal bleeding were to occur.

**D - Discontinue levothyroxine and obtain fT4 levels** - This patient underwent total thyroidectomy for a medullary thyroid carcinoma, and levothyroxine is used following total thyroidectomy to prevent hypothyroidism. Patients who are started on exogenous thyroxine can develop features of thyrotoxicosis such as anxiety and diaphoresis. In such a case, T3 or fT4 levels should be obtained, and levothyroxine would be reduced, if not discontinued. However, patients with thyrotoxicosis are usually tachycardic.

**E - Administer IV levofloxacin and obtain chest radiograph** - A chest x-ray is part of the standard work-up of pneumonia and other postoperative respiratory conditions such as atelectasis, and IV levofloxacin is used to treat hospital-acquired pneumonia. Patients with pneumonia can experience chest pain and shortness of breath, but they would also present with fever and cough.

**F - Obtain urine and plasma metanephrine levels** - Urine and plasma metanephrine levels are obtained for the workup of pheochromocytoma. The classic triad of pheochromocytoma involves episodic catecholaminergic symptoms such as headaches, sweating, and tachycardia. Such episodes may be triggered by anesthesia or surgery. Although the patient has a family history of pheochromocytoma and is currently diaphoretic, she does not have a history of episodic headache, sweating, and tachycardia.

**G - Administer IV lorazepam and discontinue sertraline** - IV lorazepam is frequently prescribed to treat or prevent panic attacks, which can result in chest pain, palpitations, shortness of breath, and diaphoresis in addition to intense fear. Although this patient has a history of an anxiety disorder, chest pain radiating to the shoulders with shortness of breath and nausea in a patient with multiple cardiac risk factors who just underwent major surgery necessitates urgent workup for a more serious perioperative complication. Also, stopping sertraline would only exacerbate her symptoms if she were having a panic attack, since abruptly discontinuing therapy can cause antidepressant discontinuation syndrome, which can mimic symptoms of anxiety.

