### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Chest compressions** - The first step in any patient with PEA is initiation of chest compressions. High-quality, uninterrupted chest compressions should be started immediately in any unresponsive patient without a pulse and are critical in the resuscitation of a patient with any type of cardiac arrest (regardless of the underlying rhythm). After chest compressions have been initiated, further resuscitative measures can be considered.

Image File: 344-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60ac5bb660670.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Unsynchronized cardioversion** - Unsynchronized cardioversion, also known as defibrillation, is advised when a patient in cardiac arrest has an underlying cardiac rhythm consistent with ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation (“shockable” rhythms). Defibrillation is not recommended for PEA arrest.

**B - Intravenous epinephrine therapy** - IV epinephrine is a critical part of the therapy algorithm for patients with cardiac arrest. While epinephrine may eventually be indicated for this patient with PEA, it is not the initial step in management for a patient in cardiac arrest. A different intervention should be performed first.

**D - Intravenous amiodarone therapy** - IV amiodarone is used as a second-line agent in patients with cardiac arrest due to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. It is administered as a 300 mg bolus and an additional 150 mg dose can be given 3-5 minutes later. Amiodarone is not recommended for patients with PEA arrest.

**E - Mild hypothermia therapy** - Therapeutic hypothermia is recommended if a patient has impaired mental status (e.g., not following commands, no purposeful movements) after the return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) has been achieved in a patient with cardiac arrest. It has been shown to improve neurological outcomes in post-cardiac arrest patients and is recommended for at least 24 hours. This patient has not yet achieved ROSC, which means that hypothermia is not indicated.

**F - Coronary angiography** - Acute myocardial infarction is an important cause of cardiac arrest, and coronary angiography should be considered once the patient is resuscitated, especially given her recent coronary stent placement (which is associated with a high risk of stent thrombosis and re-infarction). While evaluating the underlying cause of this patient's arrest will be important, she is too unstable to undergo coronary angiography at this time.

**G - Synchronized cardioversion** - Synchronized cardioversion is a treatment option for patients with cardiac arrhythmias who show hemodynamic instability (e.g., in A-fib with rapid ventricular response) but still have a palpable pulse. While this patient has a history of A-fib, the cardiac monitor shows normal sinus rhythm and she is in PEA arrest. A different therapy is indicated.

