### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Automated implantable cardioverter defibrillator placement** - Placement of an automated implantable cardioverter defibrillator (AICD) is the best method to prevent sudden cardiac death (SCD) in patients with HOCM and a history of sudden cardiac arrest or sustained ventricular tachycardia. Other indications for AICD placement in patients with HOCM include a positive family history of SCD in a close relative ≤ 50 years of age, syncope of unknown cause, left ventricular (LV) wall thickness ≥ 30 mm, LV apical aneurysms, and LV systolic dysfunction. Patients with HOCM who are not in any of these categories still require risk stratification for AICD placement because of the high risk of SCD associated with this condition.

Beta blockers are the first-line therapy for the symptomatic treatment of patients with HOCM. Other therapy options include nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, septal myectomy, and cardiac pacemaker. High-dose diuretics, spironolactone, and digoxin should generally be avoided. It is important to note that these treatment options are not known to reduce the risk of premature death in patients with HOCM.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cardiac pacemaker implantation** - Placement of a cardiac pacemaker may be considered in symptomatic patients with HOCM who have not responded to other pharmacological and nonpharmacological treatment options. Although cardiac pacing can provide symptomatic relief in these patients, it does not decrease their risk of premature death. A different treatment should be attempted in this patient before considering cardiac pacing.

**B - Verapamil therapy** - Nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (CCBs), including verapamil, can be used as second-line agents for the management of symptomatic HOCM to provide heart rate control, which allows for longer diastole and increased diastolic filling. However, these agents are not known to reduce the risk of premature death in patients with HOCM. In addition, if severe LVOTO is also present, nondihydropyridine CCBs should be used with caution because their marked vasodilatory effects can increase the degree of LVOTO and worsen these patients' symptoms.

**D - Surgical septal myectomy** - Septal myectomy is an effective treatment option for patients with symptomatic HOCM who have not responded to medical treatment. Although septal myectomy can provide symptomatic relief in these patients, it does not decrease their risk of premature death. A different treatment should be attempted in this patient before surgery is considered.

**E - High-dose furosemide therapy** - Loop diuretics, including furosemide, may be considered in a patient with symptomatic HCM without LVOTO who has not responded to first-line treatment. However, in patients like this one with HCOM and significant LVOTO, high-dose diuretics should be avoided because they can increase the degree of outflow obstruction by reducing the preload. In addition, loop diuretics are not known to reduce the risk of premature death in patients with HCOM.

