### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Diffuse, concave ST-segment elevations** - ST-segment elevations in multiple leads are the typical ECG findings seen in patients with acute pericarditis. The ST-segment elevations typically have a concave morphology and are present in all leads except for aVR and V1, which may show ST-segment depressions. ECG may also show diffuse PR-segment depressions. Though the most common cause of pericarditis is a viral infection, the most likely etiology for this patient is her underlying diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis. The treatment for nonbacterial pericarditis includes NSAIDs and glucocorticoids.

Image File: 349-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a49054ee0bbb.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - S waves in lead I, Q waves in lead III, and inverted T waves in lead III** - ECG findings of S waves in lead I, Q waves in lead III, and inverted T waves in lead III represent the S1Q3T3 pattern that is associated with right ventricular strain due to pulmonary embolism (PE). PE can manifest with sharp and pleuritic chest pain. Though rheumatoid arthritis increases the risk of PE, this patient has no tachycardia, hemoptysis, symptoms of deep vein thrombosis, history of recent surgery or immobilization, or evidence of malignancy. Thus, her Wells score for PE is zero, which indicates that there is a low probability of PE in this patient. In addition, this condition is not associated with a pericardial friction rub.

Image File: 349-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9211a974.jpg

**C - Sawtooth-appearance of P waves** - A sawtooth-appearance of P waves is the typical ECG finding seen in patients with atrial flutter, which can rarely manifest with chest pain. Most patients with this condition are asymptomatic. Other symptoms that may be present include palpitations, dizziness, syncope, and dyspnea, none of which are seen in this patient. In addition, this condition is not associated with a pericardial friction rub.

Image File: 349-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5bd848a6da0ef.jpg

**D - Peaked T waves and ST-segment elevations in leads V1-V6** - Peaked T waves and concave ST-segment elevations in leads V1–V6 are the typical ECG findings seen in patients with an ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) due to an occlusion of the left anterior descending artery. Though this patient's age and history of rheumatoid arthritis are risk factors for coronary artery disease, she lacks other major risk factors, such as type 2 diabetes mellitus, tobacco use, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia. MI can cause acute chest pain, but the pain is more likely to be described as dull or squeezing, rather than sharp and pleuritic. Moreover, acute MI would not explain this patient's pericardial friction rub. In addition, this patient does not have other typical manifestations of MI, including dyspnea, nausea, vomiting, diaphoresis, and syncope.

Image File: 349-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d90847dbd.jpg

**E - Alternating high and low amplitude QRS complexes** - Alternating high and low amplitude QRS complexes (i.e., electrical alternans) are the characteristic ECG findings seen in patients with cardiac tamponade. This condition can cause chest pain, and this patient's history of rheumatoid arthritis and presentation of acute pericarditis are risk factors for the development of a pericardial effusion that can progress to tamponade. However, other findings of cardiac tamponade include hypotension, muffled heart sounds, jugular venous distention, and pulsus paradoxus, none of which are seen in this patient.

Image File: 349-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59c27131365d5.jpg

