### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Cocaine use** - Cocaine causes tachycardia, hypertension, anxiety, and mydriasis, which are all present in this patient. Because the drug is usually snorted, it can cause damage to the fragile nasal vessels, especially with repeated use, resulting in nosebleeds.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hypertension** - Hypertension can increase the severity of a nosebleed, but it would not cause a nosebleed on its own. Combined with an underlying condition such as a bleeding disorder, it might lead to recurrent nosebleeds.

**B - Digital manipulation** - Digital manipulation and dry air are the most common causes of epistaxis and may have also played a role in this patient's nosebleed. However, given this patient's hypertension, tachycardia, and mydriasis, a different explanation is more likely.

**C - Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia** - Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT; Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome) is an autosomal dominant systemic vasculopathy. Although epistaxis is the most common presenting symptom of this condition, HHT would not explain this patient's acute hypertension, tachycardia, and mydriasis. Moreover, the patient would be expected to have other features of HHT, e.g., gastrointestinal bleeding, iron deficiency anemia, and mucocutaneous telangiectasia.

**D - Adverse effect of medication** - Although some studies have suggested a correlation between aspirin use and epistaxis, it would not explain this patient's acute hypertension, tachycardia, or mydriasis.

**F - Nasopharyngeal angiofibroma** - Juvenile nasopharyngeal angiofibroma (JVA) is a rare, benign, locally aggressive tumor that occurs virtually exclusively in adolescent males. Although recurrent, uncontrolled epistaxis is characteristic of this condition, JVA would not explain this patient's acute hypertension, tachycardia, and mydriasis. The tumor manifests instead with facial swelling, recurrent headaches, nasal obstruction, impaired breathing, or anosmia.

