### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Establish intraosseous access** - Management of trauma patients follows the ABCDE approach. This patient's airway (A) and breathing (B) have been assessed and are stable (conscious patient with symmetric chest rise, lungs clear to auscultation). Although hemorrhage control has been achieved with the application of a tourniquet, this patient's vital signs (hypotension, tachycardia) indicate circulatory (C) failure. Immediate administration of intravenous fluids in order to restore and maintain adequate tissue perfusion is vital. The standard trauma protocol of establishing intravenous access via two large-bore lines is not possible; one intravenous line is not sufficient for large-volume fluid resuscitation in this patient with life-threatening hemorrhage. Therefore, an intraosseous line is the most appropriate next step in management. Then, disability (D) is assessed via evaluation of the patient's neurological status, and exposure (E) of the patient is performed to allow a thorough evaluation.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Irrigate the shrapnel wounds** - Irrigation of the shrapnel wounds with fluid is part of routine wound management and essential for reducing the risk of infection. However, this patient is in acute hemorrhagic shock which requires immediate treatment. Therefore, a different procedure is the next best step in management.

**B - Establish central venous access** - Establishment of an additional line for fluid resuscitation is essential in this patient with acute hemorrhagic shock. However, placing a central venous line is too time-consuming and, therefore, not appropriate at this time. Central venous access may be useful in the further management of this patient, especially if transfusion of large volumes of fluids and/or blood products or prolonged infusions of vasopressors are expected.

**C - Replace the tourniquet with a pressure dressing** - Pressure dressings are the preferred method of hemorrhage control as they rarely cause complications such as limb ischemia. Therefore, tourniquets placed as a first measure to control bleeding should be replaced by pressure dressings as soon as the patient is stable and the clinical situation allows it. However, this patient is in acute hemorrhagic shock, which takes priority and requires further management. Attempting to release the tourniquet and thereby risking recurrent hemorrhage can potentially exacerbate this patient's hemodynamic instability. It is, therefore, not indicated at this time.

**E - Perform endotracheal intubation** - Endotracheal intubation of a trauma patient is indicated in the case of severe respiratory distress, unconsciousness (GCS < 8), and/or major injuries to the face and neck. None of these indications are present in this patient, whose tachypnea is most likely secondary to hypovolemic shock. Intubation is, therefore, not necessary.

