### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Echocardiography** - Echocardiography is useful for diagnosing a cardiogenic etiology of arterial embolisms, which most often arise as a result of atrial fibrillation. Acute limb ischemia is most commonly caused by thrombotic arterial occlusion secondary to the rupture of an atherosclerotic plaque or thrombosis in a diseased arterial segment. However, this patient's irregular pulse and the absence of pre-existing claudication pain make atrial fibrillation the most likely underlying cause. Echocardiography should, therefore, be performed to confirm the etiology of acute limb ischemia in this patient.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Gadolinium-enhanced MRA of the legs** - Gadolinium-enhanced MRA of the legs is a confirmatory test for acute limb ischemia and is useful for identifying arterial thrombi and dissections as an underlying etiology of acute limb ischemia. It would not, however, help to confirm the most likely underlying source of this patient's acute limb ischemia.

**C - Doppler ultrasonography of the legs** - Doppler ultrasonography of the legs is the best initial test for detecting arterial and venous thrombosis and assessing the severity of acute limb ischemia. It would not, however, help to confirm the most likely underlying cause of this patient's current symptoms.

**D - Digital subtraction angiography** - Digital subtraction angiography is the confirmatory imaging modality of choice for acute limb ischemia. It should only be performed if treatment can be delayed for further imaging without posing a threat to the extremity. This mode of imaging is useful for identifying arterial occlusions and dissections as an underlying etiology of acute limb ischemia and can allow arterial thrombus to be differentiated from an embolus. It would not, however, help to confirm the most likely underlying source of this patient's acute limb ischemia.

**E - Manometry of the right leg** - Manometry of the limb is the diagnostic test of choice for suspected compartment syndrome, which typically occurs secondary to trauma (e.g., expanding hematoma, closed fracture, crush injury) and leads to extrinsic compression of the arteries. Symptoms (the 6 Ps) are difficult to distinguish from those caused by acute intraluminal occlusion of an artery. However, manometry would not help to identify the underlying etiology of acute limb ischemia.

**F - Ankle-brachial index** - The ankle-brachial index is primarily used to diagnose peripheral artery disease (PAD), but it is also used to assess acute limb ischemia. Values < 0.4 indicate severe occlusion and ischemia. This patient has no history of claudication pain or trophic changes to his lower extremities, making PAD unlikely. Although this test quantifies the severity of arterial occlusion in acute limb ischemia, it does not help to confirm the underlying etiology.

