### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Interventricular septum rupture** - Interventricular septum rupture typically occurs 3–5 days after myocardial infarction. It manifests with sudden onset hemodynamic instability (hypotension, tachycardia, tachypnea) and signs of right ventricular failure (jugular venous distention, parasternal heave, pedal edema, and characteristically clear lungs) due to the development of a left-to-right shunt. This patient's new-onset holosystolic murmur is the result of blood flow across the newly formed ventricular septal defect (analogous to the classic murmur of a ventricular septal defect). Finally, the ECG finding of Q waves in the inferior leads suggests the presence of right ventricular ischemia.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ascending aortic dissection rupture** - Ascending aortic dissection rupture can cause hemorrhage into the pericardium or the mediastinum, which would manifest with acute onset chest pain and evidence of cardiogenic shock. While anterior aortic dissection can also result in a murmur due to associated aortic regurgitation, the murmur would be diastolic rather than systolic. Aortic dissection would also not explain the presence of jugular venous distention or pedal edema. Moreover, although aortic dissection can lead to myocardial infarction (due to extension of the dissection to the coronary arteries), aortic dissection is not a described complication of myocardial infarction.

**B - Post-infarction fibrinous pericarditis** - Post-infarction fibrinous pericarditis typically occurs 1–3 days after myocardial infarction and can manifest with tachycardia and new-onset dyspnea. However, other features, such as pleuritic chest pain, dry cough, and a pericardial friction rub, would be expected as well. Pericarditis would also not explain the presence of jugular venous distention or pedal edema. Moreover, the ECG in a patient with early post-infarction fibrinous pericarditis would typically show diffuse ST elevations, which this patient does not have.

**C - Left ventricular free wall rupture** - Left ventricular free wall rupture is a complication of myocardial infarction that most often occurs within 5–14 days of the initial myocardial infarction. In most patients, this event results in sudden onset pericardial tamponade and features of cardiogenic shock (hypotension, tachycardia, tachypnea). However, a new-onset murmur is not a typical manifestation of free wall rupture. Muffled heart sounds on auscultation and pulsus paradoxus would be expected instead. The ECG would typically show low voltage ventricular complexes, electrical alternans, and new ST-segment changes, none of which are seen here.

**D - Left ventricular aneurysm rupture** - Left ventricular aneurysms develop weeks to months following myocardial infarction. The scar tissue that results from the initial infarction cannot remodel to accommodate the tension across the left ventricle and develops an outpouching (aneurysm) that is susceptible to rupture. A rupture typically manifests with symptoms of heart failure (hypotension, dyspnea), ventricular arrhythmias, or emboli from a mural thrombus. This patient is experiencing a complication 4 days after myocardial infarction, virtually excluding a left ventricular aneurysm as the cause. In addition, left ventricular aneurysms are usually seen after lateral or anterior wall infarcts, not the inferior infarct that occurred in this patient.

**E - Papillary muscle rupture** - Papillary muscle rupture typically occurs within 2–7 days of myocardial infarction and most commonly manifests symptoms of severe acute mitral regurgitation. Rupture of a papillary muscle is most often a complication in patients with involvement of the posterior descending artery, which is usually supplied by the right coronary artery. Moreover, acute mitral valve regurgitation would result in a new systolic murmur that would be heard best over the apex, not the left sternal border. Patients with severe acute mitral regurgitation would also have findings consistent with left heart failure (pulmonary edema, cool extremities, and altered mental status), none of which this patient has.

