### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Enoxaparin therapy** - Enoxaparin is a low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) that is commonly used for DVT prophylaxis in individuals who are at increased risk of thrombotic complications, such as this patient. A major gynecological surgery is planned in this patient with multiple risk factors (e.g., advanced age, obesity, history of cancer), putting her at high risk of DVT, for which antithrombotic prophylaxis is required. LMWH use is associated with a lower incidence of DVT and lower mortality compared to other antithrombotic medications (e.g., low-dose unfractionated heparin, aspirin), making it the best therapeutic option for DVT prophylaxis. All patients taking LMWHs should be screened for renal failure, which is the main contraindication for this medication.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Early postoperative mobilization only** - Early postoperative mobilization is an efficient method of DVT prophylaxis that is indicated in virtually all patients undergoing surgical interventions. It can be used alone in low-risk patients or as an adjuvant to preoperative antithrombotic therapy in patients who have a moderate or increased risk of DVT. Early postoperative mobilization alone would not provide adequate DVT prophylaxis in this high-risk patient.

**C - Unfractionated heparin therapy** - Unfractionated heparin is commonly used for the treatment of DVT, and it can also be used as an alternative for DVT prophylaxis in high-risk patients undergoing general pelvic surgery who have contraindications (e.g., renal failure) for the first-line agent. This patient, however, has no known contraindications for the first-line drug.

**D - Aspirin therapy** - Aspirin is an oral anticoagulant that is commonly used for the prevention of major adverse cardiovascular events, as well as thrombosis prophylaxis in patients undergoing revascularization procedures (e.g., PTCA). It may also be used as an alternative for DVT prophylaxis in selected high-risk patients undergoing major surgical interventions (e.g., pelvic surgery) who have contraindications for the preferred agents. This patient, however, has no known contraindications for these drugs.

**E - Warfarin therapy** - Warfarin is an anticoagulant agent that can be used for the treatment and secondary prophylaxis of DVT. In some cases, warfarin is also used for primary DVT prophylaxis in patients undergoing major orthopedic surgery (e.g., hip replacement), but it is not routinely recommended. This patient is undergoing a gynecologic surgery, for which warfarin is not indicated.

