### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Observation** - Verapamil inhibits cardiac calcium channels and can lead to PR interval prolongation and first-degree AV block, as seen in this patient. Since she is asymptomatic and has no evidence of underlying structural heart disease or electrolyte disturbances, the prolonged PR interval is most likely a benign finding that does not require treatment. A follow-up ECG should be done to monitor for any disease progression.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Atropine therapy** - Atropine temporarily inhibits vagal activity and can improve conduction through the AV nodes, which shortens the PR interval. It would be indicated if this patient were hemodynamically unstable due to bradycardia from her first-degree AV block. However, this patient is asymptomatic.

**B - Adenosine therapy** - Adenosine slows conduction through the AV node and would likely further prolong this patient's PR interval and worsen her first-degree AV block. Therefore, adenosine would not be recommended here.

**D - Synchronized cardioversion** - Cardioversion is indicated in patients who are hemodynamically unstable due to SVT or monomorphic ventricular tachycardia. This patient's ECG is consistent with first-degree AV block, for which synchronized cardioversion is not indicated.

**E - Metoprolol therapy** - Beta-blockers, such as metoprolol, slow conduction through the AV node and would likely further prolong this patient's PR interval and worsen her first-degree AV block. Therefore, metoprolol would not be recommended here.

**F - Pacemaker placement** - Pacemaker placement is usually not indicated in first-degree AV block unless it presents with wide QRS complexes on ECG. If her AV block became symptomatic (bradycardia, dizziness, syncope), verapamil would first be discontinued before pacemaker placement was considered.

**G - Electrophysiology study** - An electrophysiological study should be considered in patients with a first-degree AV block and widened QRS complex, the combination of which raises suspicion for a conduction block below the AV node. Since infranodal blocks can spontaneously progress to high-grade AV block and cause hemodynamic instability, further investigation to localize the site of the lesion and, potentially, pacemaker placement are needed in these patients. This patient's ECG, however, shows no signs of an infranodal block.

