### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Mitral regurgitation** - Rheumatic fever is a complication of untreated pharyngeal infection with Streptococcus pyogenes (GAS), which can manifest with fever, arthralgias, Sydenham chorea (as seen here), and cardiac valve disease, of which mitral valve involvement is most common. Valve disease occurs as a result of antibodies against bacterial M proteins cross-reacting with valvular self-antigens through a process known as molecular mimicry, which results in valvular destruction. The mechanism of Sydenham chorea is thought to be similar and result from antibody cross-reactivity with basal ganglia structures.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Extraneural metastasis** - Extraneural metastasis of a primary brain tumor such as medulloblastoma is rare. Large brain tumors can also present with gait abnormalities but typically would also be accompanied by features of increased intracranial pressure (e.g., headaches, early morning vomiting, papilledema), which are not seen in this patient. Additionally, repetitive jerking movements shortly after a pharyngeal infection is most consistent with Sydenham chorea, which is not due to malignancy and so not associated with metastasis.

**B - Early-onset dementia** - Huntington disease is an autosomal-dominant neurocognitive disease that is characterized by repetitive movement disorders (chorea), psychiatric symptoms, and early-onset dementia. It is most commonly seen in patients with a family history of the disease. Although this patient's repetitive and jerky movements are typical of chorea, the onset of symptoms shortly after a pharyngeal infection suggest Sydenham chorea. Sydenham chorea is not associated with increased risk of early-onset dementia.

**C - Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder** - Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder is strongly associated with Tourette syndrome, which is a neurological movement disorder characterized by multiple motor tics and at least one vocal tic. This patient lacks vocal tics and the motor tics in Tourette syndrome usually involves the facial muscles rather than the upper and the lower limbs seen here. This patient's repetitive movements and emotional lability are more consistent with Sydenham chorea, which is not associated with ADHD.

**D - Diabetes mellitus** - Friedreich ataxia is a neurodegenerative disease that most commonly manifests with diabetes mellitus, neurological dysfunction, and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The neurological dysfunction seen in Friedreich ataxia may include weakness, poor coordination, and staggering gait but is not characterized by choreiform movements that improve with rest. Sydenham chorea, which this patient has, is not associated with the development of diabetes mellitus.

