### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Acute inferior myocardial infarction** - Acute inferior myocardial infarction (MI) is the most likely diagnosis in a patient with dyspnea, lightheadedness, ST elevation in the inferior leads (II, III, aVF), and reciprocal ST depression in leads I and aVL. This patient has significant risk factors for atherosclerotic disease, including type 2 diabetes mellitus and a 20 pack-year smoking history. Acute STEMI is usually a clinical diagnosis based on the initial ECG and the presence of typical ischemic chest pain. However, diabetic patients and elderly women may have an atypical presentation with little or no chest pain and predominantly autonomic symptoms (e.g., nausea).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Acute posterior myocardial infarction** - An acute posterior myocardial infarction can be diagnosed based on the presence of ST elevations on special leads V7–V9. On a standard 12-lead ECG, a posterior MI could manifest with reciprocal ST depression in leads V1–V4 or an R:S wave ratio > 1 in leads V1 and V2 due to an increase in the R-wave amplitude. This patient only has an ST depression in lead V2 and an R:S ratio < 1 in leads V1 and V2. It is therefore unlikely that this patient has had a posterior wall MI.

Image File: 368-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93d26e43.jpg

**B - Viral myocarditis** - Viral myocarditis can cause dyspnea and nonspecific ST elevations on ECG, but it would typically be preceded by a viral prodrome, with fever, myalgia, and upper respiratory symptoms. This patient has no history of a preceding viral infection, making viral myocarditis an unlikely diagnosis. Furthermore, his ECG findings are more consistent with a different diagnosis.

**C - Ventricular fibrillation** - A patient with ventricular fibrillation would be unresponsive, with an ECG showing disorganized, high-frequency (usually > 300/min), sawtooth-like waves with indiscernible p waves or QRS complexes. This patient is responsive, with distinct P waves as well as QRS complexes and a heart rate of 60–70/min on ECG.

Image File: 368-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_598843b732e51.jpg

**D - Acute pericarditis** - Acute pericarditis can cause shortness of breath and ST elevations on ECG. However, the ST elevations in pericarditis typically occur diffusely in all leads, in contrast to this patient's ECG findings. Moreover, PR segment depression and clinical features such as fever, a pericardial friction rub, and/or retrosternal chest pain would be expected in a patient with acute pericarditis.

Image File: 368-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a12a2c583d6e.jpg

**F - Atrial fibrillation** - Atrial fibrillation can manifest with nausea, shortness of breath, and light-headedness. However, in the case of atrial fibrillation, the ECG would have revealed a variable RR interval and absent P waves. This patient has a constant RR interval and clearly discernible P waves on ECG, making atrial fibrillation unlikely.

**G - Saddle pulmonary embolus** - A saddle pulmonary embolism can manifest with shortness of breath, light-headedness, and nonspecific ST elevations on ECG. However, this patient is lacking features of right ventricular strain on ECG (e.g., S1Q3T3 pattern, increased R-wave amplitude and ST depression in V1 and V2) and the absence of tachycardia and major risk factors (e.g., prolonged immobilization, recent trauma, surgery, malignancy) make this diagnosis unlikely. This patient's ECG findings are more consistent with a different etiology.

Image File: 368-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60a756cb5a8f0.jpg

**H - Second-degree AV block** - A second-degree AV block can manifest as either a Mobitz type 1 or a Mobitz type 2 block. Mobitz type 1 manifests with a progressive prolongation of the PR interval that culminates in a non-conducted P wave (“dropped beat”) on ECG. Mobitz type 2 AV block is characterized by a constant PR interval and a single or intermittent non-conducted P wave without subsequent QRS complexes. This patient's ECG shows P waves before every QRS complex and a constant PR interval.

Image File: 368-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6007074f9e09c.jpg

