### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Absent P waves on electrocardiogram** - Absent P waves and irregularly irregular RR intervals on electrocardiogram would be consistent with atrial fibrillation, a significant risk factor for atrial thrombus formation due to the rapid, irregular contraction of the atria and subsequent blood stasis. Thrombi formed in the left atrium or left ventricle can fragment into emboli and disperse into the arterial circulation, leading to ischemic events, as seen here. This patient has multiple risk factors for atrial fibrillation, including her age, hypertension, and diabetes.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Non-compressible femoral vein on ultrasonography** - Sonographic evidence of a non-compressible femoral vein would be consistent with a deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in the femoral vein. While the patient's acute limb ischemia and splenic infarction were probably caused by embolic events, the emboli both occurred in the arterial system, whereas DVTs result in occlusion of the venous system. Venous emboli from DVTs can travel to the pulmonary vasculature (resulting in pulmonary embolism) but would not enter the systemic vasculature without the presence of a significant right-to-left shunt (e.g., patent foramen ovale), which is uncommon.

**C - Infrarenal aortic aneurysm on abdominal CT scan** - Infrarenal aortic aneurysms can increase the risk of arterial embolic events at sites distal to the aneurysm, such as the lower extremities. The splenic artery and short gastric vessels supplying the spleen arise from the celiac trunk, which originates above the renal arteries. As a result, the spleen would not be affected by an infrarenal aortic aneurysm.

**D - Right atrial thrombus on transesophageal echocardiography** - A right atrial thrombus could embolize into the pulmonary vasculature, causing pulmonary embolism. However, embolism from a right atrial thrombus into the arterial system would only be possible with a concurrent intra-cardiac shunt (e.g., patent foramen ovale). Given this patient's age and risk factors, a different finding is much more likely to be present.

**E - Schistocytes on peripheral blood smear** - Schistocytes may be present on a peripheral blood smear as a result of intravascular hemolysis in conditions such as hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). Both HUS and TTP can elevate LDH levels and cause splenic infarcts. However, in the absence of further signs of intravascular hemolysis (e.g., anemia, hyperbilirubinemia), HUS and TTP are unlikely causes of the patient's splenic infarction. This patient's elevated LDH level is most likely a direct result of her splenic infarct.

