### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Elevated transaminases** - Elevated transaminases occur in up to 3% of patients receiving statin therapy. This asymptomatic side effect typically resolves spontaneously over time. However, in very rare cases, overt hepatoxicity can occur, resulting in transaminitis (> 10 times the upper normal limit of transaminases).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bloating** - Bloating is a common side effect of bile acid resins such as cholestyramine and colestipol. Bile acid resins can also cause diarrhea by inhibiting the reabsorption of bile acids (interruption of enterohepatic circulation). While flatulence is reported in rare cases, bloating is not an adverse effect of statins.

**B - Myositis** - Although muscle aches (myalgias), including soreness, stiffness, and/or cramps, are a more common adverse effect of statin administration (statin myopathy), myositis, which manifests with elevated serum creatinine kinase concentration, occurs in < 0.5% of patients taking statins. Another rare but serious potential side effect of statin administration (esp. when taken in conjunction with fibrates) is rhabdomyolysis.

**D - Cholelithiasis** - Cholelithiasis is a common complication of medical treatment with fibrates or bile acid resins (bile acid sequestrants), as well as rapid weight loss (e.g., after bariatric surgery). While statins do change the lipid composition of the blood, they are not known to cause adverse effects related to bile.

**E - Flushing** - Flushing as a result of peripheral vasodilation is a common side effect of nicotinic acid (vitamin B3) due to increased synthesis of prostaglandins D2 and E2. Other side effects include hyperglycemia and hyperuricemia. Statins are not known to cause flushing.

