### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Muffled heart sounds** - Muffled heart sounds are a sign of cardiac tamponade, a possible complication of aortic dissection involving the ascending aorta (Stanford type A). If the dissection results in a tear of the tunica externa, aortic blood can leak into the pericardium. Pericardial fluid will decrease the transmission of heart sounds to the precordium.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Tactile crepitus over the neck** - Tactile crepitus over the neck is a sign of subcutaneous emphysema. Spontaneous subcutaneous emphysema can occur following spontaneous esophageal rupture (Boerhaave syndrome), which can result in acute-onset chest pain and mediastinal widening (due to a pneumomediastinum). However, Boerhaave syndrome is usually preceded by a history of vomiting and/or severe retching, and features such as asymmetrical blood pressure readings would not be expected.

**C - Early diastolic knocking sound** - A pericardial knock is an early diastolic sound that is associated with constrictive pericarditis. An aortic dissection can result in acute pericarditis, which, in turn, can cause constrictive pericarditis. However, a different complication (and therefore, a different clinical manifestation!) is much more likely in a patient with aortic dissection.

**D - Systolic murmur along the left sternal border** - An aortic dissection that involves the ascending aorta can cause aortic regurgitation, which would present with a diastolic (not systolic!) murmur that is best heard at the left sternal border.

**E - High-frequency midsystolic click** - A high-frequency midsystolic click is a characteristic finding in mitral valve prolapse (MVP), which may occur acutely after myocardial infarction. MI can cause chest pain that radiates to the jaw. However, the “tearing” nature of chest pain, the presence of asymmetric blood pressure readings, and a normal ECG is more consistent with aortic dissection, which is not associated with MVP.

**F - Low-pitched early-diastolic "plop"** - An early-diastolic “plop” is a pathognomonic sign for atrial myxoma, which does have a peak incidence between 40 and 60 years. However, myxomas typically occur among women and usually present as episodes of syncope, dyspnea, and/or palpitations, unlike this patient who presents with sudden-onset chest pain. Also, asymmetrical blood pressure readings would not be expected with myxomas.

**G - Diminished breath sounds over the right lung base** - Diminished breath sounds over the right lung base can be seen with pleural effusion. Extension of the aortic dissection to involve the thoracic descending aorta can result in pleural effusion. However, the left lung rather than the right lung would usually be affected.

