### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Cholesterol embolization** - Cholesterol embolization syndrome is a known complication of cardiac catheterization, vascular interventions, and anticoagulant therapy. Cholesterol is released into the circulation, where it can travel to many organs, especially the kidneys (as they receive a large amount of the blood supply). This patient presents with the classic symptoms of livedo reticularis and acute kidney failure. Eosinophilia and eosinophiluria in the setting of cholesterol embolism are very suggestive findings. Kidney biopsy showing intravascular cholesterol deposits (spindle-shaped vacuoles) confirms the diagnosis.

Image File: 373-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d923b8b15.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Contrast-induced nephropathy** - In contrast-induced nephropathy, creatinine is highest after 3–5 days and usually normalizes to the patient's baseline within 1 week. Nephrotoxic drugs such NSAIDs increase the risk of kidney damage following contrast administration. Although this patient takes naproxen regularly, neither the onset of symptoms nor the renal biopsy results are consistent with this diagnosis.

**B - Renal papillary necrosis** - Kidney biopsy of a patient with renal papillary necrosis would reveal coagulative necrosis of the renal medulla and papillae rather than spindle-shaped vacuoles. Patients with renal papillary necrosis typically present with hematuria, flank pain, fever, and colicky pain. Urinalysis may show pyuria/WBC casts without eosinophils. Skin findings are usually not seen, however, which makes this diagnosis less likely in this patient.

**C - Allergic interstitial nephritis** - Allergic interstitial nephritis (AIN) is caused by a hypersensitivity reaction to medications such NSAIDs or penicillins. Patients present with fever, rash, eosinophilia, eosinophiluria, and sterile pyuria. Although this patient's symptoms overlap with those of AIN, the biopsy results rule out this diagnosis.

**D - Analgesic nephropathy** - Analgesic nephropathy is the most common cause of chronic interstitial nephritis. It is due to inhibition of prostacyclins by NSAIDs, which in turn causes vasoconstriction of the medullary blood vessels, leading to papillary ischemia and necrosis. It presents with painless hematuria, pyuria, fatigue, and nausea. This patient presents with acute symptoms after cardiac catheterization, which should raise suspicion for another condition. Furthermore, analgesic nephropathy does not account for this patient's skin findings.

**F - Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis** - Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis is a vasculitis characterized by necrotizing granulomas with eosinophilia. It commonly involves the lungs, skin, and kidneys. It classically presents with severe allergic asthma attacks and allergic rhinitis, neither of which is present in this patient.

**G - Polyarteritis nodosa** - Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a systemic vasculitis of small and medium-sized vessels that spares the lungs. Renal involvement usually leads to hypertension, which is not present in this patient. Moreover, skin involvement tends to cause ulcerations and nodules (thus the name “nodosa”). Livedo reticularis (reticulated purplish discoloration of his feet) is not commonly present in PAN and suggests another diagnosis.

