### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - CT scan of the abdomen** - A CT scan of the abdomen is most likely to confirm the diagnosis of Trousseau syndrome, a condition that is characterized by recurrent venous thrombosis in different veins with evidence of simultaneous thrombophlebitis (warm, red, swollen skin with tender cord-like structures) as seen here. This patient's older age, smoking history, and weight loss raise concern for a malignancy-induced hypercoagulable state. Trousseau syndrome is most often seen in the setting of a visceral malignancy (classically, pancreatic adenocarcinoma) due to the production of procoagulants by the malignant cells.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - 24-hour electrocardiography monitoring** - 24-hour electrocardiography monitoring is useful for detecting paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Affected patients may present with seemingly inexplicable arterial thromboembolism (manifesting as transient ischemic attack/stroke, bowel infarction, or acute limb ischemia). The diagnosis is often delayed because electrocardiogram at the time of presentation may demonstrate normal sinus rhythm, thus obscuring the need for further workup of a cardiogenic cause of the clotting. This patient has venous thromboses, however, which would not be explained by paroxysmal atrial fibrillation so 24-hour electrocardiography monitoring is not appropriate.

**B - X-ray of the chest** - A chest x-ray can be used to identify potential lung malignancies, which could result in a hypercoagulable state. This patient's pulmonary exam is unremarkable and he lacks concerning respiratory signs/symptoms, making a lung malignancy less likely. Finally, chest x-ray is no longer a recommended screening tool for patients at high risk for lung cancer. Instead, a low-dose helical CT scan is the imaging modality of choice. Chest x-ray is less likely to help confirm the underlying diagnosis.

**C - Transesophageal echocardiography** - Transesophageal echocardiography is useful for diagnosing a cardiogenic etiology of arterial thrombosis (e.g., atrial thrombus or valvular vegetations). Atrial thrombi most often arise in the setting of atrial fibrillation and manifest with recurrent arterial thromboses, not venous thromboses as seen here. Bacterial valvular vegetations can also cause recurrent arterial thrombosis due to septic microemboli, manifesting with Osler nodes, Janeway lesions, and nail bed hemorrhages, all of which are absent in this man. This patient presents with DVT and superficial thrombophlebitis, making a cardiogenic etiology unlikely.

**E - Serum antiphospholipid antibody level** - Serum antiphospholipid antibody levels are elevated in patients with antiphospholipid syndrome. Patients with APS are at significantly increased risk of developing recurrent venous thromboses, as seen in this man. However, other common manifestations of APS include recurrent arterial thrombosis (possibly causing transient ischemic attack or stroke) and livedo reticularis, neither of which are reported or observed here. Finally, significant weight loss and the presence of simultaneous superficial thrombophlebitis are not typical of APS, making this diagnosis unlikely.

**F - Serum D-dimer level** - Serum D-dimer level is most useful in determining whether or not a patient is experiencing a thrombotic event. Because the D-dimer value reflects the extent to which fibrinolysis is occurring, it can serve as indirect evidence of a venous thrombosis. In patients with a low pretest probability for DVT, the D-dimer is considered especially useful as a screening tool. In this patient with a confirmed history of DVT, the D-dimer would add no useful information in confirming the underlying diagnosis.

