### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Perform transesophageal echocardiography** - In patients with Afib for > 48 hours or if the time of onset is unknown, as in this case, systemic anticoagulation (e.g., low molecular heparin) is necessary for 3 weeks prior to electrical or pharmacological cardioversion to reduce the thromboembolic risk. This time period can be shortened by performing a transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) after therapeutic anticoagulation. TEE visualizes the atria and can detect thrombi, which can dislodge and embolize after cardioversion. If onset is < 48 hours, rhythm control can be performed without prior TEE. Reversible causes of Afib, such as hyperthyroidism and electrolyte imbalances, should be assessed during initial evaluation. In hemodynamically unstable patients, rapid-acting anticoagulation and electrical cardioversion should be performed immediately.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer adenosine** - Adenosine can be administered in hemodynamically stable pregnant women to terminate paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT). PSVT is the most frequent arrhythmia in pregnancy. While PSVT can also manifest with palpitations, lightheadedness, tachycardia, narrow QRS complexes (< 120 ms), and absent P waves, RR intervals and pulse would be regular. Adenosine can help to diagnose an underlying Afib in supraventricular tachyarrhythmia if the diagnosis is unclear. The diagnosis in this patient, however, has already been established.

**B - Perform 24-hour ECG monitoring** - Continuous ECG monitoring (i.e., Holter monitoring) for 24–48 hours is used in the following: patients with frequent symptoms of palpitations or syncope; patients who are unable to use other ambulatory ECG monitoring devices; to assess the effect of rate control in Afib; or to screen for ventricular ectopy in high-risk patients (e.g., cardiomyopathy, acute coronary syndrome). Although this patient has palpitations, an ECG has already revealed Afib and she is not taking any rate control medication (e.g., beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, digoxin) that needs to be evaluated for efficacy. Holter monitoring would, therefore, not be indicated at this time.

**D - Initiate electrical cardioversion** - Electrical cardioversion should be initiated immediately in patients with hemodynamically unstable tachycardia with a pulse, including Afib. This patient, however, is hemodynamically stable. Rhythm control (e.g., electrical cardioversion) can also be considered in hemodynamically stable patients with Afib, but measures to reduce the risk of thromboembolism should be taken first if the patient has had Afib for > 48 hours. As this pregnant woman with new-onset Afib for > 48 hours is hemodynamically stable and no risk-reducing precautions have been taken, electrical cardioversion is not indicated at this time.

**E - Administer warfarin** - Warfarin is an anticoagulation option for patients with Afib who have an elevated risk for thromboembolism. However, warfarin is contraindicated during pregnancy because it crosses the placenta and can cause teratogenicity and fetal bleeding. Low molecular heparin is the preferred agent for pregnant patients.

**F - Initiate pharmacological cardioversion** - Pharmacological cardioversion can be considered as rhythm control in hemodynamically stable patients with new-onset Afib. However, in patients like this one who have had Afib for > 48 hours, the risk of thromboembolism should be further evaluated first. Furthermore, pharmacologic cardioversion is not the preferred rhythm control in pregnant patients.

