### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Ventricular septal defect** - A ventricular septal defect (VSD), which causes a left-to-right shunt, leads to a harsh holosystolic murmur because of turbulent blood flow across the defect. The murmur is heard best at the left lower sternal border (tricuspid area) and becomes louder with maneuvers that increase left ventricular afterload (e.g., handgrip) because of increased left-to-right shunting. The murmur is typically louder with smaller defects as blood rushes through a smaller space. Eventually, a VSD can lead to pulmonary hypertension and a reversal in blood flow (Eisenmenger syndrome), in which case the murmur may disappear or no longer become louder with increased LV afterload because of a countering right-to-left shunting.

Image File: 377-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8d86971a6.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Aortic stenosis** - Aortic stenosis can lead to a systolic murmur, as seen in this patient. However, a murmur caused by AS is heard best at the right upper sternal border. In addition, this murmur has a crescendo-decrescendo character, and it decreases in intensity with maneuvers that increase left ventricular afterload (e.g., handgrip).

**B - Patent ductus arteriosus** - The failure of the ductus arteriosus to close (patent ductus arteriosus) leads to a murmur heard best at the left infraclavicular region. This murmur occurs during both diastole and systole (i.e., a continuous murmur), unlike the harsh holosystolic murmur seen here.

**C - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy** - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy can cause a murmur as a result of mitral regurgitation (MR) or left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction. A murmur due to MR is holosystolic, and it increases in intensity with maneuvers that increase left ventricular afterload (e.g., handgrip), but this murmur is heard best at the cardiac apex (5th intercostal space in the midclavicular line). A murmur due to LVOT obstruction is heard best at the left lower sternal border, but this murmur has a midsystolic, crescendo-decrescendo character, and it decreases in intensity with maneuvers that increase left ventricular afterload.

**E - Mitral valve prolapse** - Mitral valve prolapse leads to a systolic murmur that increases in intensity with maneuvers that increase afterload (e.g., handgrip), which is seen here. However, this murmur is heard best at the cardiac apex (5th intercostal space in the midclavicular line). In addition, this murmur has a late systolic crescendo character, and it is preceded by a click due to tensing of the chordae tendinae.

**F - Atrial septal defect** - An atrial septal defect can cause a systolic murmur because of increased flow across the pulmonary valve, but the murmur is heard best at the left upper sternal border. In addition, this murmur has a midsystolic crescendo-decrescendo character, and it is accompanied by a wide, fixed split second heart sound.

