### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Pulsating headaches** - Headaches are a common side effect of nitrates and affect approx. 10% of patients. These headaches are either mild-to-moderate and occur immediately after drug administration (due to nitric oxide-induced vasodilation) or migraine-like, occurring several hours after drug intake (due to nitric oxide-mediated release of neurotransmitters such as calcitonin gene-related peptide and glutamate, and/or altered ion channel function). Nitrate-induced vasodilation decreases both preload and afterload and improves myocardial perfusion, but may also result in cutaneous flushing and hypotension.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Digital vasospasm** - Digital vasospasm (secondary Raynaud phenomenon) is a potential side effect of beta blockers. This side effect is mediated by the blockade of beta blockers on β2-receptors, which causes vasoconstriction. Nitrates do not cause digital vasospasm.

**C - Hypertensive urgency** - Nitrates can cause hypotension, rather than hypertensive urgency. Nitrates are used to treat hypertensive crisis for short-term reduction of blood pressure and are contraindicated in hypotensive patients.

**D - Nonproductive cough** - Nonproductive cough is a side effect of ACE inhibitors. This side effect is due to decreased breakdown of bradykinin, which increases production of arachidonic acid metabolites (e.g., prostaglandins). The accumulation of prostaglandins in the upper respiratory tract and the lungs results in nonproductive cough. Nitrates do not cause cough.

**E - Lupus-like syndrome** - Lupus-like syndrome (drug-induced lupus erythematosus/DILE) is a side effect of antihypertensives, such as hydralazine and methyldopa. Other drugs that can lead to DILE include monoclonal TNF-α inhibitors, such as infliximab or etanercept, procainamide, penicillamine, isoniazid, minocycline, and phenytoin. Nitrates do not cause DILE.

**F - Lower extremity edema** - Lower extremity edema is a common side effect of dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (CCBs), particularly amlodipine. CCBs cause vasodilation, which increases the hydrostatic pressure within the blood vessels, causing extravasation of plasma into the interstitial space. Although nitrates can rarely cause lower extremity edema, it is not the most common side effect associated with this drug class.

**G - Erectile dysfunction** - Erectile dysfunction is a known side effect of beta blockers, which effect β2-receptors in the vasculature. Patients taking PDE-5 inhibitors for erectile dysfunction have an increased risk of life-threatening hypotension if nitrates are taken within 24 hours of a PDE-5 inhibitor. Nitrates do not cause erectile dysfunction.

