### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Atomoxetine** - Atomoxetine is a nonstimulant drug for treating ADHD and is prescribed for patients who cannot tolerate stimulants, such as methylphenidate. Atomoxetine carries a black-box warning for increased suicidal ideation in children and adolescents, so treatment must be monitored closely. Other nonstimulant drugs approved for the treatment of ADHD include clonidine and guanfacine.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Suvorexant** - Suvorexant is used to treat insomnia. It does not have a role in treating ADHD.

**C - Buspirone** - Buspirone is an anxiolytic drug used to treat generalized anxiety disorder. Patients with ADHD are at an increased risk of developing anxiety disorders. However, this patient lacks signs of anxiety, and therefore, is unlikely to benefit from buspirone. This drug has no role in managing hyperactivity and inattention in ADHD.

**D - Risperidone** - Risperidone is an atypical antipsychotic drug used in the treatment of several pediatric neuropsychiatric conditions, including Tourette syndrome and obsessive-compulsive disorder, as well as aggression in children with autism disorder. This drug has no role in managing hyperactivity and inattention in ADHD.

**E - Fluoxetine** - Fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), is used to treat several neuropsychiatric illnesses, including major depressive disorder (MDD), obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), and panic disorder. Although MDD and OCD are potential comorbid conditions of ADHD, this patient lacks findings consistent with these conditions. Fluoxetine is not indicated to manage hyperactivity and inattention in ADHD.

**F - Varenicline** - Varenicline is used to aid smoking cessation. It has no role in treating ADHD.

