### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Atorvastatin therapy** - Therapy with a statin (e.g., atorvastatin, rosuvastatin) is indicated in patients between 40–75 years of age with T2DM or a 10-year ASCVD risk ≥ 7.5%, regardless of baseline lipid levels. Other indications for initiating statin therapy are LDL levels ≥ 190 mg/dL and ASCVD (e.g., coronary artery disease, peripheral artery disease, previous stroke or transient ischemic attack).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Aspirin therapy** - Low-dose aspirin therapy is indicated for patients who have ASCVD (for secondary prevention) and can be considered for patients aged 40–70 years with a 10-year ASCVD risk ≥ 10% (for primary prevention). Aspirin is not recommended for primary prevention of ASCVD in patients older than 70 years because the risk of bleeding risk outweighs any potential benefit of LDA therapy in this age group. A different drug should be prescribed in this 53-year-old patient with an estimated 10-year ASCVD risk of 9.1%.

**C - Dapagliflozin therapy** - Dapagliflozin is an oral antidiabetic agent that can be added to the drug regimen of a patient with T2DM if monotherapy with metformin has not achieved the HbA1C target of < 7%. This patient, however, has good glycemic control (HbA1C of 6.2%) on metformin alone and, thus, does not require a second antidiabetic drug.

**D - No further action is indicated** - This 53-year-old patient with T2DM and a 10-year ASCVD risk ≥ 7.5% should be prescribed a specific drug for health maintenance.

**E - Niacin therapy** - While niacin (vitamin B3) is a second-line lipid-lowering agent, it does not decrease the risk of developing ASCVD or its complications in patients without dyslipidemia, like this one. In addition, niacin should be avoided in patients with diabetes since it can worsen glycemic control. A different drug should be prescribed to this patient.

**F - Ezetimibe therapy** - Ezetimibe is a second-line lipid-lowering agent that can be used for additional ASCVD risk reduction in patients who do not achieve the target LDL reduction with the maximally tolerated dose of first-line therapy. This patient's LDL cholesterol is within the reference range.

