### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Graded exercise therapy** - Conservative interventions, such as a graded exercise therapy, are the best initial steps in the management of PAD if claudication is present and there is no evidence of critical limb ischemia or acute limb ischemia. Initial management would also include modifying risk factors through smoking cessation, antiplatelet therapy, statin therapy, and managing hypertension and diabetes if present.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Propranolol therapy** - Propranolol can be used to treat hypertension or arrhythmias. This patient's intermittent claudication suggests PAD, which can be managed by controlling cardiovascular risk factors such as hypertension and atherosclerosis. Because this patient has well-controlled blood pressure with no symptoms or signs of arrhythmia, additional medication is unnecessary.

**C - Vascular bypass surgery** - Vascular bypass surgery can be used to restore adequate limb perfusion in PAD. It is only considered once conservative and pharmacological treatment have failed to provide symptomatic relief, or if there is evidence of critical limb ischemia on physical exam. Because this patient has not received any initial therapy and has no evidence of critical limb ischemia on physical exam, a more conservative approach is needed.

**D - Cilostazol therapy** - Cilostazol is used to provide symptomatic relief for intermittent claudication in patients with PAD. It is an adjunct to first-line therapy, and not indicated as a primary modality of treatment. Pharmacological treatment for PAD is typically indicated once more conservative treatment options have failed.

**E - Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty with stenting** - Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty with stenting can be used to revascularize peripheral vessels. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty with stenting is only considered once conservative and pharmacological treatment have failed to provide symptomatic relief, or if there is evidence of critical limb ischemia on physical exam. Because this patient has not received any initial therapy and does not have evidence of critical limb ischemia on physical exam, a more conservative approach must first be considered.

