### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Cardiac pacing** - Mobitz type II AV block is an unstable bradyarrhythmia that can progress to third-degree heart block and death, and therefore requires immediate treatment (unlike Mobitz type I AV block). The first step in management is determining whether the patient is hemodynamically unstable. If unstable, as is the case here (hypotension, lightheadedness), the patient should receive IV atropine and transcutaneous (or transvenous) cardiac pacing should be initiated. Placement of a transcutaneous pacemaker is only a temporary measure for improving hemodynamics. If reversible causes are not found, definitive treatment requires the placement of a permanent pacemaker in one or both ventricles to bypass the AV nodal block.

Image File: 383-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6058c047485a0.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Dopamine** - Dopamine IV infusions can be used in patients with Mobitz type II AV block who remain hemodynamically unstable due to low blood pressures despite initial first-line treatments. Dopamine works at lower doses to stimulate beta-1 receptors to increase heart rate and contractility, and at higher doses it can also stimulate alpha-1 receptors on blood vessels to improve blood pressure. However, dopamine would not be used in isolation for Mobitz type II AV block without first performing other interventions.

**B - Glucagon** - Glucagon is only used to treat bradycardia in the case of beta-blocker toxicity. Although this patient is bradycardic (one sign of beta-blocker toxicity), he lacks other findings of beta-blocker toxicity (e.g., hypothermia, hypoglycemia, seizure). Also, beta-blocker toxicity would not explain this patient's ECG findings.

**C - Dobutamine** - Dobutamine IV infusions can be used in patients with Mobitz type II AV block who remain hemodynamically unstable with symptoms of heart failure (e.g., pulmonary edema, poor cardiac output) despite initial first-line treatment. Dobutamine stimulates beta-1 receptors to improve heart rate and contractility. However, dobutamine would not be used in isolation for Mobitz type II AV block without first performing other interventions.

**D - Norepinephrine** - Norepinephrine is a catecholamine drug that can be used for the treatment of hypotension but is not indicated as part of the ACLS algorithm for the management of Mobitz type II AV block.

**F - Epinephrine** - Epinephrine, as an alternative to dopamine, can be used in the treatment of symptomatic bradycardia. Because it has potent beta-1 adrenergic receptor activity, low doses can improve heart rate and contractility. However, it is not indicated as part of the ACLS algorithm for the management of Mobitz type II AV block.

