### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Intravenous epinephrine therapy** - The next best step for this patient in PEA arrest is administration of epinephrine (given as 1 mg IV, and repeated every 3–5 minutes while continuing CPR). PEA arrest is characterized by continued electrical activity within the cardiac conduction system (as seen in this patient with sinus rhythm on the cardiac monitor) but inadequate cardiac output to support tissue perfusion. For this reason, PEA arrest is considered a non-shockable rhythm. High-quality chest compressions and IV epinephrine are vital aspects of management.

Image File: 384-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60ac5bb660670.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous glucagon therapy** - Intravenous glucagon is recommended for patients with suspected beta-blocker toxicity. Although this patient takes metoprolol and has some features of beta-blocker toxicity (e.g., hypotension, bradycardia), the absence of PR interval prolongation is inconsistent with beta-blocker toxicity. Other common features, such as hypothermia, hypoglycemia, or seizure, are also not present. Regardless of the underlying etiology, she is currently in PEA arrest and requires a different emergent therapy.

**B - Defibrillation** - Defibrillation is indicated for patients with cardiac arrest due to ventricular tachycardia (usually appearing as a wide-complex, regular tachycardia) or ventricular fibrillation (usually appearing as a wide-complex, irregular tachycardia). Defibrillation is not recommended for patients in PEA arrest.

**C - Coronary angiography** - Acute myocardial infarction is an important cause of cardiac arrest, and coronary angiography should be considered once the patient is resuscitated. While evaluating the underlying cause of this patient's arrest will eventually be important, she is too unstable to undergo coronary angioplasty.

**E - Intravenous amiodarone therapy** - IV amiodarone is a second-line agent used in patients with cardiac arrest due to ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation who have not responded to first-line strategies (e.g., epinephrine, defibrillation). It is administered as a 300 mg bolus and an additional 150 mg dose can be given 3–5 minutes later. Amiodarone is not recommended for patients in PEA arrest.

**F - Hypothermia therapy** - Therapeutic hypothermia is recommended when there is impaired mental status (e.g., not following commands, no purposeful movements) after the return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) has been achieved in a patient with cardiac arrest. It has been shown to improve neurological outcomes in post-cardiac arrest patients and is recommended for at least 24 hours. Hypothermia therapy is not indicated for this patient who has not yet achieved ROSC.

**G - Intravenous dextrose therapy** - Although hypoglycemia is not a typical cause of PEA arrest, it is common post-arrest (along with other metabolic derangements). Therefore, this patient's serum glucose should be closely monitored after resuscitation. However, she currently lacks a perfusing blood pressure (as evidenced by her lack of pulse and mental status), which requires a different emergent intervention at this time.

