### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Open emergency surgery** - Open emergency surgery is the most appropriate next step for this patient who most likely has an AAA rupture. The findings of hypotension, tachycardia, and tachypnea indicate that this patient is in severe hemorrhagic shock. In a hemodynamically unstable patient with a high clinical suspicion for ruptured AAA, treatment should not be delayed for any confirmatory imaging. An alternative to open surgery is endovascular aneurysm repair, which is recommended over open surgery in current guidelines if it is anatomically feasible. Without immediate repair, AAA rupture is usually fatal within hours.

Image File: 385-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f9e852ee8d00.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous ampicillin/sulbactam therapy** - Intravenous antibiotic therapy, e.g., a regimen of ampicillin and sulbactam, would be appropriate for treating a patient with uncomplicated diverticulitis after imaging studies (e.g., abdominal CT) have established the diagnosis. In some cases, diverticulitis may cause septic shock, which could resemble this patient's condition. However, diverticulitis is usually a local colonic infection that presents with subacute nonradiating LLQ pain, signs of systemic infection (e.g., fever), and in the case of peritonitis, abdominal guarding, none of which are present in this patient. Regardless, if this patient did have septic shock secondary to diverticulitis, emergency surgery would likely be necessary to control the infectious focus rather than a course of IV antibiotics.

**B - Supine and erect x-rays of the abdomen** - Supine and erect x-rays of the abdomen would be the most appropriate next step if a perforated viscus or bowel obstruction were suspected. This patient's PUD and aspirin use put him at risk of a ruptured ulcer. However, his history is not consistent with an active ulcer given his use of pantoprazole as well as the absence of any recent epigastric pain or abdominal distention and rigidity. Although the patient has signs of bowel obstruction (vomiting, no bowel movement in three days), it is less likely than AAA because obstructions usually have worsening pain over hours to days and would not cause sudden hemodynamic instability.

Image File: 385-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d92d5d617.jpg

**C - CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis with contrast** - A CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis with contrast would be an appropriate confirmatory test in a hemodynamically stable patient with a suspected AAA rupture, especially when other conditions might explain the findings, e.g., bowel ischemia or perforation. However, this patient already has a classic triad of a ruptured AAA and signs of severe hemorrhagic shock. Imaging must not delay definitive treatment.

Image File: 385-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d92b3a530.jpg

**E - Transfusion of packed red blood cells** - Transfusion of packed RBCs will very likely be required for this patient in order to offset intravascular blood volume loss. In fact, in any patient with a ruptured AAA, at least 10 units of packed RBCs should be ready for likely transfusion intraoperatively, as these patients lose significant amounts of blood. While a blood transfusion may temporarily help to counter volume loss, this patient needs immediate definitive treatment to contain further bleeding.

**F - Colonoscopy** - Colonoscopy is the test of choice for evaluating possible bleeds that originate in the lower GI tract (e.g., bleeding diverticula) in patients who are hemodynamically stable. This patient does not have severe hematochezia or bright red blood per rectum to suggest a brisk lower GI bleed as the source of his hemodynamic instability. Even if GI bleed was suspected, in the case of massive, life-threatening bleeding resulting in severe hemodynamic instability, angiography combined with therapeutic intervention would likely be performed rather than colonoscopy.

