### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Perform duplex ultrasonography** - Duplex ultrasonography should be performed in patients with superficial thrombophlebitis (ST) to assess for concomitant deep venous thrombosis (DVT), especially in patients with risk factors for DVT, such as pregnancy, chronic venous insufficiency, and obesity. This imaging test also evaluates the extent and location of ST, both of which also help to determine the need for anticoagulation. Most cases of ST are self-limited and treatment is symptomatic, consisting of NSAIDs (should be avoided during pregnancy), elevation of the affected limb, and compression therapy. Anticoagulation is recommended for patients with a larger segment (≥ 5 cm) ST, a thrombus near the deep venous system, or if risk factors for DVT are present. Low molecular weight heparin is preferred in pregnant women.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer intravenous cefazolin** - Cephalosporins, like cefazolin, are approved for use during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy. Intravenous cefazolin can be used as empiric antibiotic therapy for suppurative ST or nonpurulent, moderate skin and soft tissue infections (e.g., erysipelas, cellulitis). This patient, however, has no signs of infection, such as fever, elevated leukocyte count, or purulent drainage/fluctuance. Systemic antibiotics are not required at this point.

**B - Perform biopsy of the lesion** - A biopsy of the lesion is indicated in patients with suspected vasculitides, such as polyarteritis nodosa (PAN). Although PAN can manifest with nodular skin lesions, a cord-like swelling is not common. Moreover, in PAN, the skin lesions and extremity pain develop more insidiously, in contrast to the acute presentation seen here. Also, malaise, weight loss, myalgia, arthralgia, and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., abdominal pain, melena) would be expected. This patient most likely has ST, for which biopsy is not indicated.

**D - Measure antistreptolysin-O titer** - Antistreptolysin-O titer measurement is used to assess for recent group A streptococci infection in patients with erythema nodosum (EN), as streptococcal infection is the most common infectious cause of EN. Patients with EN can present with tender, indurated, erythematous, nodular lesions on the lower extremities and a history of recent pharyngitis, similar to what is seen here. However, EN usually manifests with painful nodules on both pretibial surfaces; a unilateral, cord-like swelling would not be expected.

**E - Prescribe oral apixaban** - Anticoagulation is recommended for patients with a larger segment (≥ 5 cm) ST, a thrombus near the deep venous system, and/or if risk factors for deep venous thrombosis are present (e.g., pregnancy). Although anticoagulation is indicated in this pregnant woman, low molecular weight heparin is preferred over NOACs (e.g., apixaban) during pregnancy.

