### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Stenosis of the internal carotid artery** - Stenosis of the carotid artery (CAS) can manifest with monocular amaurosis fugax due to retinal ischemia, which is caused by stenosis-induced hypoperfusion, thrombosis, or microemboli. Therefore, workup for patients with amaurosis fugax generally includes carotid duplex ultrasonography to screen for CAS. This patient has several risk factors for atherosclerosis (hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, smoking), and his fundoscopic examination shows evidence of cholesterol crystal emboli, which most commonly originate from atherosclerotic lesions of the carotid artery. Carotid endarterectomy is the recommended treatment of CAS in symptomatic patients (e.g., with amaurosis fugax) with a stenosis ≥ 70% and in asymptomatic patients with a stenosis ≥ 80%.

Depending on the patient's age, sex, and comorbidities, carotid endarterectomy may also be recommended for moderate symptomatic carotid artery stenosis (50–69%).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Age-related degeneration of the macula** - Wet age-related macular degeneration (wet AMD) can lead to subretinal hemorrhage, manifesting with acute monocular visual impairment. Contrary to this patient's presentation with amaurosis fugax, visual impairment after subretinal hemorrhage in wet AMD does not resolve spontaneously and typically only affects the central vision. Furthermore, subretinal hemorrhage on fundoscopic examination and further signs of wet AMD (e.g., gray-green retinal discoloration, serous detachment of the retina) would be expected.

Image File: 390-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b801115512aa.jpg

**B - Granulomatous inflammation of the ophthalmic artery** - Granulomatous inflammation of the ophthalmic artery is seen in giant cell arteritis (GCA). This condition may cause anterior optic neuropathy (AION), which can manifest with monocular amaurosis fugax. However, GCA typically causes other signs and symptoms as well, including constitutional symptoms, jaw claudication, headache, and, most importantly, an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, none of which this patient has. Furthermore, AION in GCA typically manifests with a pale papilledema (grey-white papillary swelling with blurred margins) on fundoscopic examination, which is not seen here.

Image File: 390-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60f04cae7939e.jpg

**D - Immune-mediated demyelination of the optic nerve** - Immune-mediated demyelination of the optic nerve (i.e., optic neuritis) may not be evident on fundoscopic examination, and this patient's fundoscopic signs of chronic conditions (e.g., hypertensive retinopathy, cholesterol crystal emboli) without evidence of optic neuritis are consistent with this condition. However, optic neuritis typically manifests with painful, monocular, vision loss with a progressive onset over hours/days, with a peak in impairment after 1–2 weeks, unlike this patient's presentation with amaurosis fugax.

**E - Thrombotic occlusion of the retinal vein** - Thrombotic occlusion of the retinal vein (i.e., ischemic central retinal vein occlusion) typically leads to a sudden, monocular loss of vision. However, vision loss in ischemic central retinal vein occlusion usually does not resolve spontaneously. Furthermore, this condition manifests with massive retinal hemorrhages, dilated tortuous retinal veins, macular edema, and papilledema on fundoscopic examination, none of which is seen here.

Image File: 390-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55590ee180e14.jpg

**F - Stasis of blood in the atrium** - Stasis of blood in the atrium can be seen in patients with atrial fibrillation (Afib). This condition increases the risk of atrial thrombus formation and systemic embolization of these thrombi. Transient thromboembolic occlusion of the central retinal artery can manifest with amaurosis fugax with no evidence of thromboembolism (e.g., white-gray, pale, nonrefractile plaque) on fundoscopic examination, as seen here. However, this patient has a regular pulse and did not experience any symptoms of Afib (e.g., palpitations). Furthermore, thromboembolic occlusion of the retinal artery is rarely caused by systemic thrombi from Afib, because these thrombi usually do not reach the retinal artery; they more commonly cause stroke.

