### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Thoracic aortic aneurysm** - In addition to tabes dorsalis and Argyll Robertson pupil, patients with tertiary syphilis are at risk of developing thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) from aortitis. Treponemal-mediated destruction of the vasa vasorum classically affects the ascending aorta and can also lead to aortic root dilatation and aortic regurgitation. These cardiovascular complications are late manifestations of syphilis, and typically only occur after 15 years of untreated infection.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Atrioventricular block** - Development of atrioventricular block can be caused by various etiologies (e.g., infection, cardiomyopathy, ischemia, etc); the most common infectious causes include Lyme disease and infective endocarditis (IE). This patient's syphilis infection would not increase his risk of developing atrioventricular block.

**B - Mitral valve regurgitation** - Mitral valve regurgitation is a potential complication of rheumatic fever (RF) or rheumatic heart disease (due to untreated RF). RF can also present with neurological sequelae (e.g., Sydenham chorea); however, paresthesia and pupillary involvement would not be expected. This patient's syphilis infection would not increase his risk of developing mitral valve regurgitation.

**C - Penile squamous cell carcinoma** - Penile squamous cell carcinoma is associated with infection from high-risk strains of human papillomavirus (i.e., HPV-16, HPV-18). Anogenital lesions caused by HPV are usually raised, cauliflower-like, and exophytic, rather than the painless ulcers reported by this patient. This patient's syphilis infection would not increase his risk of developing squamous cell carcinoma.

**D - Cerebral artery septic embolism** - Cerebral artery septic embolism is almost exclusively seen in left-sided infective endocarditis, especially with S. aureus and Streptococcus bovis infection, and can lead to the development of mycotic aneurysm. This patient has evidence of syphilis infection, which is not known to cause embolization.

**E - Inflammatory polyarthritis** - Inflammatory polyarthritis can occur in patients with disseminated gonococcal infection (DGI) or reactive arthritis, but not syphilis infection. While synovitis can develop in patients with syphilis, it is more typically seen in secondary syphilis, and would classically present within 10 weeks of primary infection; this patient's infection has been present for much longer.

