### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Bidirectional blood flow in the great saphenous vein** - Bidirectional blood flow in the great saphenous vein on duplex ultrasonography, rather than the normal unilateral blood flow from the superficial to the deep system, is diagnostic of chronic venous insufficiency. Risk factors for chronic venous disease in this patient include female sex, family history of vascular disease (her father died from an ischemic stroke at a young age), pregnancy, obesity, and prolonged standing (i.e., work as a high school librarian). Elevated venous pressure leads to the incompetence of venous valves, causing reflux of blood into superficial veins, resulting in further elevation of venous pressure and the formation of varicose veins. Edema that worsens with standing and improves with leg elevation indicates progression of her venous disease due to damage to the capillary basement membrane. If this patient's chronic venous insufficiency remains untreated, she may develop chronic venous stasis ulcers.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Corkscrew collaterals in the posterior tibial artery** - Corkscrew-shaped collateral vessels around an occlusion in the posterior tibial artery would be seen on arteriography in patients with thromboangiitis obliterans (TAO). TAO is a vasculitic disease and affects both the arteries and veins, but this patient does not present with symptoms of arterial disease such as claudication or Raynaud phenomenon. Additionally, TAO most commonly presents in young, male smokers, while this patient is a female with no history of smoking.

**B - Increased peak systolic velocity in the femoral artery** - Increased peak systolic velocity due to stenosis in the femoral artery would be seen on Doppler ultrasonography in patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD). This patient's family history of vascular disease (i.e., her father died due to an ischemic stroke at a young age) is a risk factor for PAD, but she does not present with typical features of arterial disease such as intermittent claudication, rest pain, or ischemic ulcers. Additionally, PAD is not associated with varicose veins.

**D - Intraluminal thrombus in the popliteal vein** - An intraluminal thrombus in the popliteal vein would be seen on duplex ultrasonography in patients with a deep venous thrombosis (DVT) of the popliteal vein. Although pregnancy and obesity are risk factors for DVTs, an acute DVT does not typically cause varicose veins or bilateral edema. Additional symptoms, including unilateral pain, warmth, erythema, and tenderness, would be expected in a patient presenting with a DVT.

**E - Thickened, incompressible sural vein** - A thickened, noncompressible sural vein seen on duplex ultrasonography indicates superficial thrombophlebitis. While varicose veins are a risk factor for superficial thrombophlebitis, additional symptoms, including pain, tenderness, induration, and erythema overlying a superficial vein (commonly with a palpable cord), would be expected. Additionally, uncomplicated superficial thrombophlebitis typically does not manifest with leg swelling that worsens with prolonged standing and decreases with leg elevation.

