### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Electrocardiogram** - Since hypertension is an asymptomatic and insidious disease with several complications, an evaluation should be performed to assess the extent of end-organ damage once the diagnosis has been established. Electrocardiogram (ECG) should be done in all newly diagnosed hypertensive patients to look for early electrical changes associated with hypertensive heart disease (e.g., left ventricular hypertrophy, left atrial enlargement) or concomitant heart disease (e.g., coronary artery disease, arrhythmias).

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - Plasma renin activity** - Checking plasma renin activity would be appropriate if Conn syndrome were suspected as a cause of secondary hypertension. However, Conn syndrome is unlikely in a patient with a normal level of serum K+.

**C - Polysomnography** - Polysomnography is the test of choice to diagnose obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Although OSA is a recognized cause of secondary hypertension, it is unlikely in a patient with no complaints of daytime somnolence.

**D - No further testing** - Since hypertension is an asymptomatic and insidious disease with several complications, an evaluation should be performed to assess the extent of end-organ damage once the diagnosis has been established. It would be inappropriate to perform no further testing in this newly diagnosed hypertensive patient.

**E - Echocardiography** - Echocardiography is not routinely recommended in newly diagnosed hypertensive patients unless there are features of heart failure or there is suspicion of left ventricular dysfunction or coronary artery disease. This patient is asymptomatic with no signs of heart failure on physical examination, which means that another method of evaluation should be used.

**F - Serum PTH level** - Checking serum PTH levels would be appropriate if hyperparathyroidism were suspected. Although hyperparathyroidism may be associated with hypertension, screening is not routinely conducted in newly diagnosed hypertensive patients unless they have other features of hyperparathyroidism (e.g., renal stones, abdominal pain, constipation, polyuria).

**G - Renal ultrasonography** - Renal ultrasonography is used to assess the size and structure of kidneys and should be performed if there is a suspicion of secondary hypertension due to a renal cause. However, renal diseases are unlikely in a patient with normal urinalysis results and a normal serum creatinine level.

**H - Plasma metanephrine level** - Checking plasma metanephrine levels would be appropriate if pheochromocytoma were suspected. Patients with pheochromocytoma usually present with episodic blood pressure crises accompanied by diaphoresis, palpitations, or pallor. This patient has consistently elevated blood pressure on multiple visits with no symptoms of episodic catecholamine surge (diaphoresis, palpitations, pallor).

