### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Discontinue simvastatin, start pravastatin in 3 weeks** - After discontinuation of simvastatin for a period of 2–4 weeks and once symptoms have resolved, the patient should begin treatment with low-dose pravastatin (or fluvastatin). These statins have been shown to have the lowest risk of muscular side effects. If symptoms of myopathy do not occur, the dose can be adjusted to achieve the goals outlined in the guidelines for lipid-lowering therapy.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Continue simvastatin, add niacin** - Combining niacin with statin therapy increases the rate of adverse effects such as myopathy. This would not be an appropriate intervention for this patient, who already shows evidence of statin-associated myopathy.

**C - Discontinue simvastatin, start colestipol now** - Bile acid-binding resins (i.e., colestipol, cholestyramine) are among the available second-line treatments for dyslipidemia, but they are generally poorly tolerated due to GI side effects (e.g., bloating, constipation). They are most effective in combination with statin therapy rather than administered as a monotherapy. Different lipid-lowering agents should be considered.

**D - Continue simvastatin, add fenofibrate** - Combining a fibrate with statin therapy increases the rate of adverse effects such as myopathy. This would not be an appropriate intervention for this patient, who already shows evidence of statin-associated myopathy.

**E - Discontinue simvastatin, start fenofibrate now** - Fibrates (e.g., bezafibrate, fenofibrate, gemfibrozil) are second-line agents for the treatment of dyslipidemia that are effective in lowering triglyceride and LDL levels. However, fibrates are also associated with an increased risk of myopathy. While simvastatin should be discontinued in this patient, fibrates should be only be given as an alternative lipid-lowering agent if the patient has contraindications to or side effects from first-line agents.

**F - Increase the dose of simvastatin** - While increasing the dose of his statin medication may further lower LDL levels, this would also likely worsen his statin-associated myopathy. He should be started on a different pharmacologic regimen.

**G - Continue simvastatin, add colestipol** - While a combination of statin therapy and colestipol (instead of statin monotherapy) can be used to further reduce LDL levels, the continuation of simvastatin would not be appropriate in a patient with evidence of statin-associated myopathy.

**H - Discontinue simvastatin, start niacin in 3 weeks** - Niacin is a second-line treatment for dyslipidemia and has some effect in increasing HDL levels and decreasing levels of LDL and triglycerides. However, niacin should be avoided in diabetic patients because of the risk of worsening glycemic control. Alternative lipid-lowering agents should be considered.

**I - Continue simvastatin, add ezetimibe** - While a combination of statin therapy and ezetimibe (instead of statin monotherapy) can be used to further reduce LDL levels, the continuation of simvastatin would not be appropriate in a patient with evidence of statin-associated myopathy.

