### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Tear in the tunica intima** - An aortic dissection is typically caused by a tear in the tunica intima and subsequent longitudinal extension of the dissecting hematoma. Hypertension, which increases the risk of endothelial injury, is the most common predisposing factor for aortic dissection. Most aortic dissections begin in the ascending portion of the thoracic aorta because this is the region of maximum hydraulic stress. Patients present with sudden and severe pain in the chest or interscapular region. The pain can migrate as the dissection progresses. Proximal extension of the dissection into the aortic valve ring can cause acute aortic regurgitation (AR), as seen here. Other features of aortic dissection include syncope, diminished distal pulses, and asymmetrical blood pressure and pulse readings between limbs. Unlike the murmur of AR from aortic valve disease, which is prominent along the left sternal border, the murmur of AR from aortic dissection is prominent along the right sternal border.

Image File: 397-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d926345a1.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Fibrofatty plaque in the aortic wall** - The formation of a fibrofatty plaque in the aortic wall is characteristic of atherosclerosis, which typically involves the abdominal portion of the descending aorta. Atherosclerosis is implicated in the formation of abdominal aortic aneurysms; atheroma ulceration has been reported in some patients with abdominal aortic dissections and descending thoracic aortic dissections. Although both aortic dissection and atherosclerosis share similar risk factors (e.g., smoking, hypertension, advanced age, and male sex), atherosclerosis is not a major risk factor for most aortic dissections, which tend to occur in the ascending aorta.

Image File: 397-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f43ebf25ecda.jpg

**C - Obstruction of the pulmonary arteries** - Obstruction of the pulmonary arteries is seen in pulmonary embolism, which can manifest with acute-onset dyspnea, chest pain, tachypnea, and tachycardia. However, pulmonary embolism would not explain the aortic regurgitation seen here.

**D - Rupture of a bulla in the lung** - Rupture of a bulla in the lung causes pneumothorax, which can manifest with dyspnea, chest pain, tachypnea, and tachycardia. However, pneumothorax would not explain the aortic regurgitation seen here. Instead, chest auscultation would reveal decreased breath sounds caused by pneumothorax.

**E - Perforation of the esophageal wall** - Esophageal rupture can manifest with chest pain, tachycardia, tachypnea, and dyspnea (due to mediastinitis and/or pleural effusion). However, esophageal rupture would not cause a murmur. Instead, chest auscultation might reveal a crunching sound over the precordium that is synchronous with each heartbeat (Hamman sign) due to a pneumomediastinum and/or decreased breath sounds due to a pleural effusion. Furthermore, esophageal rupture usually has a distinct precipitating cause (e.g., retching or forceful vomiting), which is not seen here.

**F - Infarction of the ventricular wall** - Infarction of the ventricular wall (myocardial infarction) can cause acute-onset chest pain, dyspnea, tachypnea, tachycardia, and a murmur due to mitral regurgitation that is caused by papillary muscle rupture. However, the murmur due to mitral regurgitation is systolic rather than diastolic and heard best at the cardiac apex, not the right upper sternal border. Moreover, papillary muscle rupture typically occurs 2–7 days after infarction, not at the outset.

