### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Atheroembolism** - Atheroembolism is the embolization of multiple cholesterol crystals and atherosclerotic debris, usually to small and medium-sized arteries, following endovascular interventions (e.g., coronary angiography with stent placement), after the initiation of anticoagulant therapy, or spontaneously. Atheroembolism most commonly occurs in old male individuals with multiple risk factors for atherosclerosis (e.g., hypertension, coronary artery disease, steatohepatitis, smoking). The embolization of microscopic cholesterol crystals into small arterioles affects many organs, and affected individuals can present with skin changes (e.g., livedo reticularis, blue toe syndrome), gastrointestinal ischemia, pancreatitis, CNS symptoms (transient ischemic attack, stroke), or acute kidney injury.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Venous thrombosis** - Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) of the lower limb can lead to tenderness and discoloration of the skin in a patient with multiple risk factors for DVT (age > 60 years, smoking, immobilization). However, DVT typically manifests with swelling, warmth, and erythema of the affected limb, none of which are seen in this patient. In addition, distal pulses are typically normal in DVT.

**B - Cryoglobulinemia** - Cryoglobulinemia can lead to cryoglobulinemic vasculitis and manifest with skin discoloration. However, most cases of cryoglobulinemic vasculitis are associated with hepatitis C infection and characterized by fatigue, arthralgias, vasomotor symptoms (e.g., Raynaud phenomenon), and polyneuropathy, none of which are seen here.

**D - Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia** - Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT; formerly called type 2 HIT), a severe complication of heparin therapy that can cause skin necrosis due to arterial thrombosis, would explain this patient's lower extremity skin changes. However, HIT usually develops 5 to 10 days after continuous heparin therapy, whereas this patient received a single heparin bolus 2 days ago.

**E - Acute limb ischemia** - Acute lower limb ischemia can manifest with sudden onset of unilateral tenderness and skin discoloration of the lower extremity. Nevertheless, other features of acute limb ischemia (6 Ps), such as absent peripheral pulses (pulselessness), decreased lower limb sensation (paresthesia), and paralysis, are absent here.

