### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Femoral artery pseudoaneurysm** - Femoral artery pseudoaneurysm occurs in ∼ 4% of patients following interventional percutaneous cardiac catheterization via the femoral artery. Most patients are asymptomatic, but it may present with pain in the groin, a pulsatile mass, and a systolic bruit over the swelling, as seen in this patient.

Image File: 399-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f1e98fb28ef2.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Femoral artery dissection** - Femoral artery dissection may occur as a rare complication (< 0.5% of cases) of femoral artery catheterization. Patients may present with pain in the groin and a bruit on auscultation, as seen here. However, most cases usually occur during or immediately after the procedure, and the pain is usually more acute and severe, while this patient presents with mild groin pain for the past 2 weeks. Also, the presence of a pulsatile swelling makes a different diagnosis more likely.

**B - Saphenous varix** - A saphenous varix may present with a groin swelling and murmur (venous hum) on auscultation, as seen in this patient. However, a saphenous varix is not pulsatile; for this reason, a different diagnosis should be considered.

**D - Femoral artery hematoma** - A femoral hematoma may develop as a complication of femoral artery catheterization. The patient may present with pain in the femoral region and discoloration of the overlying skin. However, this complication usually occurs within 12 hours of the procedure. A different complication is more likely in this patient, who presents with symptoms a few weeks after the procedure.

**E - Femoral arteriovenous fistula** - Accidental puncture of the femoral vein during femoral artery catheterization may rarely (< 1% of cases) result in the formation of an arteriovenous fistula. Most fistulas are asymptomatic and tend to close spontaneously within a few months. An arteriovenous fistula that fails to close would present with a murmur on auscultation, which is seen here. If the fistula is large enough, a pulsatile mass and groin pain may also be present. However, if an arteriovenous fistula fails to close, the patient develops limb edema, venous dilatation in the lower limb, symptoms of limb ischemia (e.g., intermittent claudication), and/or clinical features of congestive heart failure a few months after the procedure, none of which is seen in this patient.

**F - Femoral artery thrombosis** - Thrombotic occlusion of the femoral artery may occur as a complication of femoral artery catheterization. However, this complication usually occurs within a few days of the procedure. Moreover, the patient does not have signs of acute limb ischemia (e.g., poor peripheral pulses, limb claudication) associated with femoral artery thrombosis. Finally, femoral artery thrombosis would not present as a pulsatile mass.

**G - Femoral abscess** - Femoral artery catheterization during interventional percutaneous cardiac catheterization may rarely (< 1% of cases) result in a femoral abscess due to infection of the puncture site. A femoral abscess would present as a tender mass with erythema of the overlying skin, which is seen in this patient. However, femoral abscesses are nonpulsatile and usually develop within a few days of femoral catheterization. Additionally, the lack of systemic signs (e.g., fever) and the onset of symptoms in this patient 2 weeks after the procedure suggests a different diagnosis.

