### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Alcohol use disorder** - Korsakoff syndrome occurs due to chronic thiamine deficiency and in the developed world is most commonly due to underlying alcohol use disorder. Thiamine plays an important role as a cofactor in cerebral glucose metabolism, myelin sheath maintenance, and synthesis of neurotransmitters. Disruption of these processes due to thiamine deficiency results in impaired axonal conduction and causes the characteristic features of both Wernicke encephalopathy and Korsakoff syndrome. Atrophy of the mamillary bodies is a relatively specific indicator of Korsakoff syndrome.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Consumption of undercooked meat** - Consumption of undercooked meat is a risk factor for ingestion of Toxoplasma gondii, which can cause cerebral toxoplasmosis, especially in immunocompromised individuals. Toxoplasmosis typically manifests with a headache, fever, confusion, and focal neurological deficits. Impaired short-term memory and confabulation, as observed in this patient, are not associated with toxoplasmosis. Moreover, brain imaging would show ring-enhancing lesions, not localized atrophy.

**B - Chronic hypertension** - Chronic hypertension is associated with the development of vascular dementia, which manifests as stepwise deterioration of cognitive function in combination with asymmetric or focal deficits. This patient does exhibit short-term memory deficits. However, MRI of a patient with vascular dementia would reveal multiple white matter infarcts, in contrast to the mammillary atrophy seen here. Moreover, this patient's confabulation and the fact that his long-term memory remains intact is not entirely consistent with vascular dementia.

**C - Intravenous heroin use** - Intravenous heroin use can lead to infective endocarditis, the complications of which include cerebral septic emboli, meningitis, and brain abscess. Depending on the affected brain regions, neurological deficits of varying severity may be present. However, affected individuals typically would also have fever, headache, and in some cases meningismus, seizures, and/or focal deficits. Brain imaging would reveal acute inflammation, emboli, or ring-enhancing lesions as opposed to the localized atrophy seen in this patient.

**E - Spirochete infection** - Without treatment, syphilis infection can progress to neurosyphilis, the manifestations of which are highly variable. Late neurosyphilis usually involves the brain and spinal cord parenchyma, causing weakness, progressive dementia, personality changes, as well as tabes dorsalis. This patient's lack of dysarthria, facial and limb hypotonia, and pupillary abnormalities (Argyll-Robertson pupils) makes spirochete infection unlikely.

