### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Femoral artery aneurysm** - A painless, pulsatile mass at the midinguinal point with a continuous bruit on auscultation and a palpable thrill are characteristic features of a femoral artery aneurysm. This patient's advanced age, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and chronic smoking are all risk factors for the development of an aneurysm, which may be asymptomatic when small. A femoral artery aneurysm is often associated with other aneurysms, especially abdominal aortic aneurysm and thoracic aortic aneurysm.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Inguinal hernia** - An inguinal hernia is one of the most common causes of a painless mass in the inguinal region, especially in elderly men. However, an inguinal hernia is not pulsatile and will not have a palpable thrill or a murmur on auscultation. Rather, an inguinal hernia would show an expansile cough impulse, will be doughy/elastic in consistency, and have bowel sounds on auscultation (if the inguinal content is bowel).

**B - Femoral artery pseudoaneurysm** - A femoral artery pseudoaneurysm may present as a painless, pulsatile swelling at the midinguinal point, with a palpable thrill and audible murmur on examination, as in this patient. However, spontaneous pseudoaneurysms are very rare, occurring in patients with underlying vasculitides (e.g., Behcet disease) or connective tissue disorders (e.g., Ehlers-Danlos syndrome). Femoral artery pseudoaneurysms typically follow an iatrogenic intervention on the femoral artery (e.g., cardiac catheterization, femoral ABG, surgery) or trauma (e.g., gunshot wound) to the inguinal region. This patient does not have a preceding history of femoral artery trauma/intervention and has no features of other underlying disorders, making this diagnosis highly unlikely.

**C - Femoral hernia** - Although a femoral hernia may present as a painless swelling in the inguinal region, it is not pulsatile and there would be no palpable thrill or audible bruit on examination. A femoral hernia would instead show an expansile cough impulse, will be doughy/elastic in consistency, and have bowel sounds on auscultation (if the hernia content is bowel).

**D - Femoral lymphadenopathy** - Painless femoral lymphadenopathy that overlies the femoral artery may be seen as a pulsatile mass in the inguinal region. However, there would be no palpable thrill or audible bruit on examination. In addition, this patient has no features to suggest an underlying genital/anal/lower limb infection or malignancy that would cause femoral lymphadenopathy.

**E - Arteriovenous fistula of the femoral vessels** - An arteriovenous fistula (AVF) of the femoral vessels can present with a painless, pulsatile swelling at the midinguinal point with a palpable thrill and an audible bruit, as seen in this patient. However, spontaneous AVFs are very rare; they typically follow an iatrogenic intervention on the femoral artery (e.g., cardiac catheterization, femoral ABG, surgery) or trauma (e.g., gunshot wound) to the inguinal region, which this patient has no history of. Other typical features of a femoral AVF, such as edema and varicose veins in the affected limb (due to transfer of arterial pressure to the femoral vein) are also absent in this patient.

**F - Femoral abscess** - A femoral abscess presents as a tender inguinal mass that may be pulsatile if it's overlying the femoral artery; but without a palpable thrill or an audible bruit. Other typical features of a femoral abscess include fever, localized pain over the swelling, and signs of inflammation (erythema, warmth) of the overlying skin. In addition, a femoral abscess typically follows an injury or iatrogenic intervention at the site (e.g., following cardiac catheterization) or could represent a cystic/necrotic/liquified stage of femoral lymphadenitis secondary to tuberculosis or a malignancy (e.g., genital/anal/lower limb squamous cell carcinoma). This patient has no risk factors or features of a femoral abscess.

**G - Saphenous varix** - A saphenous varix may present with a painless inguinal swelling with an audible bruit (venous hum) on auscultation, as seen in this patient. However, a saphenous varix is not pulsatile, making a different diagnosis more likely.

