### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Transfuse O group, Rh negative packed red blood cells** - Patients in shock with a history of, or ongoing, severe hemorrhage should receive an initial bolus of intravenous saline followed by transfusion of type O Rh negative packed red blood cells (pRBCs). If available, fully crossmatched pRBCs are preferable for this purpose. Early resuscitation with blood reestablishes hemoglobin levels and, therefore, the oxygen-carrying capacity of the intravascular volume. The reestablished capacity prevents organ ischemia and associated metabolic acidosis, both of which can complicate shock. If hemorrhage is extensive and the patient continues to be hemodynamically unstable, plasma and platelets should be transfused in addition to pRBCs at a 1:1:1 ratio. Transfusion of these blood products counters the risk of developing coagulopathy, another complication of shock associated with acidosis, hypothermia, the trauma itself, fibrinolysis, and dilution due to fluid transfusion. In addition to transfusion of pRBCs, management of this patient should include immediate transfer to the operating room for laparotomy.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform a diagnostic peritoneal lavage** - Diagnostic peritoneal lavage used to be commonly performed in patients with blunt abdominal trauma, which is seen here, to identify intraperitoneal hemorrhage. Since the advent of FAST scan, however, this invasive procedure is no longer preferred.

**B - Initiate fluid resuscitation with hydroxyethyl starch solution** - Fluid resuscitation with hydroxyethyl starch solution is associated with an increased risk of kidney dysfunction and mortality and should generally be avoided in critically ill patients, like this one, with hemorrhagic shock.

**D - Perform a CT scan of the abdomen** - A CT scan of the abdomen is indicated after blunt trauma in hemodynamically stable patients if an initial FAST scan is inconclusive. This patient, however, is in hemorrhagic shock and hemodynamically unstable. Furthermore, the results of the FAST scan in conjunction with this patient's history of trauma and physical examination findings are conclusive for intraperitoneal bleeding due to liver laceration.

**E - Initiate norepinephrine infusion** - Norepinephrine infusion to maintain organ perfusion is indicated in patients with hypotension due to septic or cardiogenic shock. This patient, however, has hypovolemic shock. Vasopressors such as norepinephrine should be avoided in this condition because these drugs do not treat the cause of hypovolemia and can lead to organ hypoperfusion and tissue damage (e.g., kidney injury).

**F - Administer recombinant activated factor VII** - Recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) is approved for the treatment of hemorrhage in patients with hemophilia A and B, acquired hemophilia, factor VII deficiency, or Glanzmann thrombasthenia. rFVIIa is also used off-label in patients with coagulopathy due to trauma. Although this patient has a history of trauma, there are no signs of coagulopathy (e.g., mucosal bleeding, hematoma).

