### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Patent ductus arteriosus** - A patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) manifests with a continuous machinery murmur best heard in the left infraclavicular area. The machinery murmur is generated as blood continuously shunts from the high-pressure aorta through the ductus arteriosus into the low-pressure pulmonary artery. It may envelop the S2 and is not usually affected by positional changes. Patients with moderate-sized PDAs may present with bounding pulses, widened pulse pressure, and symptoms of heart failure.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Atrial septal defect** - Atrial septal defects (ASD) manifest with pulmonary outflow tract murmurs heard best at the left upper sternal border and are often associated with fixed splitting of S2. ASDs are often low velocity shunts that produce insufficient flow to be audible. Larger shunts may cause diastolic flow murmurs across the tricuspid valve owing to a large left-to-right shunt. However, the continuous machinery murmur would not be seen in patients with an ASD.

**B - Truncus arteriosus** - Truncus arteriosus (TA) results in a single conduit providing mixed venous and arterial blood to the coronary, pulmonary, and systemic circulations. Cardiac exam findings of TA would include a single loud S2 and the presence of an ejection click at the cardiac apex or left sternal border. Accentuated and bounding peripheral pulses might also be present. However, patients with an unrepaired defect present with harsh systolic murmurs at the left sternal border, unlike the continuous machinery murmur heard in this patient.

**C - Tetralogy of Fallot** - Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) is associated with a harsh crescendo-decrescendo murmur best heard along the left mid- to upper-sternal border. The murmur can decrease in intensity as the degree of right ventricular outflow tract obstruction worsens because of increased right-to-left shunting of blood. The examination findings of a continuous machinery murmur in the left upper sternal border, such as that observed in this patient, would not be seen in patients with TOF.

**E - Mitral valve prolapse** - Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) is associated with a late systolic crescendo murmur with a midsystolic click heard best at the apex. The examination findings of a continuous machinery murmur in the left upper sternal border, such as that observed in this patient, would not be seen in patients with MVP.

**F - Ventricular septal defect** - Ventricular septal defects (VSD) manifest with holosystolic, harsh sounding murmurs, best heard in the left lower sternal border. These murmurs often obliterate the S2 and are associated with a palpable thrill. Neonates present with an asymptomatic heart murmur or, in cases of moderate-to-large sized defects, with signs of heart failure. The examination findings in this patient reveal a continuous machinery murmur in the left upper sternal border, which is not suggestive of a VSD.

