### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Transfusion-associated circulatory overload** - Transfusion-associated circulatory overload (TACO) refers to volume overload that has developed secondary to transfusion of blood products. It generally occurs within the first 6 hours of transfusion and is characterized by hypertension, wide pulse pressure, and evidence of volume overload (pulmonary edema, S3 gallop, jugular venous distention), as seen in this patient. Risk increases with the number of units transfused and can be minimized by increasing time intervals between transfusions and limiting the rate of intravenous administration.

Treatment usually involves use of supplemental oxygen, and mobilization of fluid with diuresis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Type 1 hypersensitivity reaction** - Anaphylaxis is a life-threatening type 1 hypersensitivity reaction that can occur during blood product transfusion and presents with bronchospasm, urticaria, and hypotension (shock). This patient presents with crackles, not wheezes, and lacks other features of anaphylaxis. Additionally, the delayed time course in this patient's presentation makes this diagnosis unlikely.

**B - Transfusion-related acute lung injury** - Transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI) is a rare but dangerous complication of transfusion of blood products that usually occurs within the first 6 hours after transfusion. Similar to this case, patients would also present with acute dyspnea and diffuse bilateral opacities on chest x-ray. However, hypotension and fever would also be expected, whereas this patient is hypertensive and afebrile.

**C - Acute pulmonary embolism** - Pulmonary embolism can present with tachycardia, dyspnea, and hypoxia, as seen in this patient. However, a chest x-ray is usually normal in PE or shows nonspecific findings. In addition, PEs are usually associated with hypotension (rather than hypertension) and the chest pain in PE is classically pleuritic, rather than a dull chest pressure. PE would also not explain this patient's S3 gallop.

**D - Acute hemolytic transfusion reaction** - Acute hemolytic transfusion reaction presents with fever, chills, nausea, hypotension, and flank pain and typically occurs during transfusion of incompatible blood products. Although symptoms can include shortness of breath, it is not associated with pulmonary edema or an S3 gallop, and the time course of this patient's presentation is not consistent with this diagnosis. Furthermore, hemolytic transfusion reaction is unlikely to occur with blood products that have been crossmatched correctly.

**E - Acute kidney injury** - Acute kidney injury (AKI) can cause pulmonary edema, hypertension, and an S3 gallop, resulting from fluid overload, if advanced. This patient is hypertensive, anemic, and has a recent history of significant blood loss that does put her at risk of developing AKI. However, the relatively rapid onset of pulmonary edema soon after transfusion of blood products in this patient makes another diagnosis more likely.

**F - Hypertensive emergency** - Hypertensive emergency is defined as severe hypertension (> 180/120 mm Hg) with end-organ damage, such as decompensated heart failure, encephalopathy, acute kidney injury, etc. While this patient has a history of hypertension and has symptoms of heart failure (pulmonary edema, S3), she was initially hypotensive on presentation and her blood pressure of 170/90 mm Hg is not consistent with this diagnosis.

**H - Acute myocardial infarction** - Acute myocardial infarction (MI) classically presents with chest pain or chest pressure, and can lead to symptoms of decompensated heart failure (e.g., dyspnea, S3 gallop). Although this patient has pulmonary edema and an S3 gallop, her ECG was normal and the onset of symptoms after the transfusion of blood products suggests a different diagnosis.

