### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Mitral annular dilatation** - Peripartum cardiomyopathy is a type of dilated cardiomyopathy. Patients with dilated cardiomyopathy can develop mitral regurgitation caused by left ventricular failure and/or dilation of the mitral valve annulus. Dilated cardiomyopathy caused by peripartum cardiomyopathy is typically reversible. Heart failure (e.g., dyspnea, S3 gallop) and mitral regurgitation can be treated with diuretics.

Image File: 413-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ad917145b6a1.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Myxomatous mitral valve degeneration** - Myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve, which occurs in connective tissue diseases (e.g., Marfan syndrome), can lead to mitral regurgitation; but such a valvular defect is irreversible without surgery.

**C - Perivalvular abscess** - Perivalvular abscesses occur in individuals with infective endocarditis and can cause severe mitral regurgitation, which is seen here. However, valvular defects due to infective endocarditis are usually irreversible and require treatment with high-dose antibiotic therapy as well as surgical repair.

**D - Mitral valve leaflet fibrosis** - Fibrosis of the mitral valve leaflets, which is seen in rheumatic heart disease (RHD), can cause mitral regurgitation or mitral stenosis; but valvular defects due to RHD are irreversible and require surgical repair.

**E - Papillary muscle rupture** - Papillary muscle rupture, which typically occurs following myocardial infarction, can lead to mitral regurgitation but is irreversible without surgery.

**F - Mitral annular calcification** - Mitral annular calcification can lead to mitral regurgitation, but this condition typically occurs in the older population. Furthermore, mitral annular calcification is irreversible without surgery.

