### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Immune response to cardiac antigens** - 2–10 weeks after a myocardial infarction, an autoimmune response against cardiac antigens can lead to immune complex-mediated damage (type III hypersensitivity reaction) to the pericardium. While the exact mechanism of immune complex formation in Dressler syndrome is not fully understood, the release of neoantigens from infarcted myocardium is suspected to play a role. Patients typically present with features of acute pericarditis such as fever, tachypnea, chest pain that worsens during inspiration and is alleviated by leaning forward, dry cough, pericardial friction rub, increased troponin levels, diffuse ST elevations, pericardial effusion, and pleural effusions.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Outpouching of ventricular wall** - In true ventricular aneurysms, a portion of the ventricular free wall affected by the MI will outpouch, putting patients at risk for cardiac arrhythmia, heart failure, and thrombus formation. Ventricular aneurysm occurs between 2 weeks and several months after MI, which fits the timeframe of this patient. On chest x-ray, aneurysms may cause enlargement of the cardiac silhouette. However, ventricular aneurysm would not cause the pericardial friction rub or pleuritic chest pain seen here. Furthermore, the vast majority of ventricular aneurysm form on the anterior or apical walls, due to occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery; this patient's occlusion was in the right coronary artery.

**B - Occlusion of coronary artery stent** - Stent thrombosis, which is an important consideration for any patient with recent coronary stenting, can cause a myocardial infarction and associated acute-onset chest pain and tachypnea. However, the pain of myocardial infarction is typically described as retrosternal chest discomfort, tightness, or pressure rather than the pleuritic chest pain this patient is experiencing. Furthermore, stent thrombosis would not account for this patient's pericardial friction rub or the pericardial or pleural effusions.

**C - Pericardial infiltration with neutrophils** - Infiltration of the pericardium with neutrophils can occur as a complication of myocardial infarction, in which case neutrophils and fibrin are found in the pericardium, adjacent to the necrotic myocardium (early infarct-associated pericarditis). Although this patient is at risk for post-MI complications, early infarct-associated pericarditis is usually seen within the first week after a myocardial infarction. This patient is 3 weeks post-MI and therefore beyond the window for early infarct-associated pericarditis.

**D - Embolism to left pulmonary artery** - Embolism to the pulmonary artery is the mechanism of pulmonary embolism. Many of this patient's symptoms are similar to those of PE, including pleuritic chest pain, cough, and low-grade fever. This patient's left-sided pleural effusion could be explained by PE. However, chest pain that improves with leaning forward indicates a different process, and a pericardial friction rub and pericardial effusion are not features of PE.

**F - Rupture of interventricular septum** - A myocardial infarct affecting the interventricular septum can result in its rupture, creating a ventricular septal defect. This causes a left-to-right shunt, resulting in chest pain, new-onset systolic murmur, and heart failure if the defect is sufficiently large. While septal rupture can happen as late as 2 weeks post-MI, it usually happens at 3–5 days. This patient's symptoms began 3 weeks post-MI, which places him beyond the window for rupture. Furthermore, his cardiac examination revealed a pericardial friction rub, not the systolic ejection murmur that would be expected in interventricular rupture. In addition, an interventricular septal rupture would not explain this patient's pericardial effusion.

