### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Water hammer pulse** - A water hammer pulse is a classic finding on cardiovascular examination in patients with aortic regurgitation, which is common in patients with Marfan syndrome, such as this boy. On palpation of a peripheral artery, such as the radial artery, the clinician will feel rapid engorgement of the artery followed by a significant, prompt collapse of the vessel. This is due to the incompetent aortic valve failing to maintain adequate diastolic pressure in the arterial system, which also causes a widened pulse pressure.

Image File: 415-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f60d13734ca4.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Paradoxical splitting of S2** - Paradoxical splitting of S2 is the pathological closure of the pulmonic valve before the aortic valve. Instead of the physiologic splitting of S2 with inspiration, S2 will instead split with expiration. Conditions that delay left ventricular outflow, such as aortic stenosis or left bundle branch block, may cause paradoxical splitting of S2. However, aortic regurgitation is unlikely to be the sole cause of a paradoxical splitting of S2.

Image File: 415-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58aefc33469b8.jpg

**B - Pulsus paradoxus** - Pulsus paradoxus is not associated with aortic regurgitation. Instead, it is classically seen in patients with cardiac tamponade, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or tension pneumothorax, and is sometimes observed in asthma and pregnancy.

**C - Pulsus parvus et tardus** - Pulsus parvus et tardus is a delayed pulse with a low amplitude that is not associated with aortic regurgitation. Instead, it is seen in patients with aortic stenosis, who typically present with a harsh crescendo-decrescendo late systolic ejection murmur and, in more severe aortic stenosis, with angina, syncope, or heart failure.

Image File: 415-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8e498f442.jpg

**D - Fixed splitting of S2** - Fixed splitting of S2 is not associated with aortic regurgitation; it is most commonly a result of an atrial septal defect. The second heart sound arises from the sequential closing of the aortic valve and the pulmonic valve. Inspiration increases right ventricular preload, resulting in a delay in pulmonary valve closure, which produces a physiological splitting of the S2. Atrial septal defects produce a left-to-right shunt, increasing right atrial and right ventricular volume and forcing the pulmonic valve to close later regardless of breath.

Image File: 415-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58aefd1f2a84c.jpg

**F - Radio-femoral pulse delay** - Radio-femoral pulse delay is caused by aortic coarctation. Physiologically, pulses rise simultaneously in the radial and femoral arteries. However, due to the restricted blood from through the narrowed aorta, the femoral pulse will rise later than the radial pulse. Aortic regurgitation does not cause radio-femoral pulse delay.

Image File: 415-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5db0703f3891a.jpg

