### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Impaired myocardial relaxation** - Chronic uncontrolled hypertension is the most common cause of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF), which is likely in this patient. Chronic hypertension increases the afterload against which the left ventricle contracts. As a compensatory mechanism, the myocardium undergoes concentric hypertrophy to maintain cardiac output. This leads to a thickened and stiff left ventricle with impaired myocardial relaxation (decreased compliance). The consequence of this compensatory mechanism is an increase in left ventricular filling pressures and reduced ventricular filling (i.e., diastolic heart failure) with normal ventricular contraction, as seen in this patient.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Destruction of alveolar walls** - Destruction of alveolar walls is the pathophysiologic hallmark of emphysema, a subtype of COPD. While this patient has a history of long-term smoking, shortness of breath, and productive cough, his cardiopulmonary findings on auscultation are more consistent with pulmonary edema and a cardiogenic cause of shortness of breath. In addition, COPD would not explain this patient's frothy sputum and 4th heart sound. Moreover, patients with COPD usually have respiratory acidosis (due to retention of CO2), not alkalosis.

**B - Decreased myocardial contractility** - Decreased myocardial contractility is the pathophysiologic mechanism of heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF), which commonly occurs after myocardial infarction (MI) or due to dilated cardiomyopathy. However, this patient's cardiac output is preserved, as is evident in his ejection fraction of 55%. In addition, despite this patient having risk factors for coronary artery disease (diabetes mellitus, hypertension, older age), he has no clinical features or history to suggest an MI.

**C - Diuretic overdose** - Diuretic overdose manifests as a contraction alkalosis characterized by volume depletion, which in turn activates the RAAS system. The renal changes caused by the aldosterone effect in the renal tubule (sodium reabsorption, potassium and hydrogen excretion) result in metabolic alkalosis, not respiratory alkalosis. Additionally, there is evidence of volume overload and pulmonary edema in this patient, not volume depletion.

**D - Myxomatous valve degeneration** - Myxomatous degeneration is the most common pathophysiologic mechanism in mitral valve prolapse (MVP). However, MVP usually manifests with atypical chest pain, palpitations and anxiety, and a high-frequency, midsystolic click that is best heard in the mitral region, none of which is seen in this patient. While heart failure can occur as a rare complication of MVP, it is usually right-sided (right heart failure) due to the increased left atrial pressure transmitting to the right ventricle.

**E - Systemic arteriovenous fistulas** - Because this patient was recently diagnosed with Paget disease of the bone, he is at increased risk of developing systemic arteriovenous fistulas, which can result in high output cardiac failure. This rare complication is caused by the increased vascularity within the abnormal bone that is undergoing high rates of remodeling. High-output cardiac failure manifests with features of hyperdynamic circulation such as bounding pulses with a quick upstroke, subungual capillary pulsations, and venous hums, none of which is present in this patient.

