### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Intravenous furosemide therapy** - In addition to supplemental oxygen therapy and ventilatory support as needed, this patient requires IV furosemide therapy to improve his volume overload status. Loop diuretics are a first-line treatment for symptomatic relief in acute exacerbation of congestive heart failure in patients with normal or elevated blood pressure. To assess the response to therapy and prevent excessive diuresis and preload reduction, it is important to monitor for adverse effects such as hypokalemia and hyponatremia as well as weight changes and volume status. Intravenous vasodilators (e.g., nitroglycerine, nitroprusside) can be considered as an adjunct treatment. These agents cause peripheral vasodilation, resulting in pooling of blood in the venous system, which rapidly reduces ventricular filling pressures and improves cardiac function.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral atorvastatin therapy** - Oral statins such as atorvastatin are indicated in patients with congestive heart failure, in which ischemic heart disease is the cause of myocardial dysfunction. While this patient has risk factors for atherosclerotic disease such as type 2 diabetes mellitus and long-standing hypertension, he lacks evidence of coronary artery disease (e.g., retrosternal chest pain/pressure, dyspnea, dizziness). Moreover, statins are only indicated in the long-term management of CHF, not in an acute setting.

**B - Oral metoprolol therapy** - Oral beta blockers (e.g., metoprolol) are typically reserved for long-term management of congestive heart failure, not in an acute setting, since their negative inotropic effect can worsen cardiac output. Beta blocker therapy should be considered once the volume status of the patient has improved.

**C - Intermittent hemodialysis** - Hemodialysis is indicated in patients with congestive heart failure with volume overload that is refractory to aggressive diuresis with multiple agents, especially if they have increasing oxygen requirements. It is also indicated in patients who develop kidney failure due to cardiogenic shock. This patient has only been treated with hydrochlorothiazide thus far. Moreover, he does not have signs of kidney failure (e.g., oliguria, metabolic acidosis, uremia).

**D - Intravenous morphine therapy** - Opiates such as morphine can reduce patient anxiety and the work of breathing by decreasing central sympathetic output. They also cause peripheral vasodilation and venodilation, decreasing ventricular filling pressure. However, there is not enough available evidence regarding the benefits or potential risks associated with morphine administration (e.g., hypopnea, nausea) in patients with congestive heart failure. Therefore, morphine is not considered standard treatment in the management of acute exacerbation of CHF and would not be the most appropriate initial step in this patient who does not report significant anxiety.

**E - Thoracentesis** - Thoracentesis is indicated for both diagnostic and therapeutic purposes in patients with pleural effusion. This patient's lung examination findings of bibasilar crackles are inconsistent with a pleural effusion, which typically manifests with decreased breath sounds, dullness to percussion, and decreased tactile fremitus in the affected area due to fluid in the pleural space. Thoracentesis is not indicated in patients with pulmonary edema.

**F - Intravenous dobutamine** - Inotropes such as dobutamine are mainly used as a short-term temporizing measure in patients with congestive heart failure and a reduced ejection fraction with evidence of cardiogenic shock, systemic hypoperfusion, and end-organ damage. Inotropes are not recommended for patients with CHF with preserved ejection fraction, as seen in this man.

