### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Decreased compliance of the left ventricle** - Decreased compliance of the left ventricle is most likely due to left ventricular hypertrophy caused by long-standing hypertension and often manifests with an S4 gallop. Increased blood pressure activates angiotensin II either by local mechanical stretching of myocardiocytes or as a result of the activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Angiotensin II promotes concentric remodeling of the heart, increasing stiffness of the organ, thus, decreasing compliance. The S4 gallop occurs due to late diastolic contraction of the atria (atrial kick) against high ventricular pressures.

Image File: 422-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f22e8c3cd623.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increased left ventricular filling pressures** - With increased left ventricular filling pressures, the left ventricle fills more rapidly in diastole, producing an S3 gallop rather than an S4 gallop, which is seen in this patient. An S3 gallop is caused by rapid left ventricular filling and sudden deceleration of blood when the ventricle reaches its elastic limit. This sound can be a normal variant in young, healthy individuals. In adults, it is typically a sign of ventricular dysfunction due to heart failure, dilated cardiomyopathy, and/or volume overload.

**B - Dilation of the aortic root** - Dilation of the aortic root, which is caused by age-related degenerative changes, hypertension, aortitis (e.g., tertiary syphilis), or connective tissue disease (e.g., Marfan syndrome), causes chronic aortic insufficiency (AI). AI can result in a low-pitched, mid or late diastolic sound that is best heard at the cardiac apex due to vibration of the ventricular wall by the regurgitant jet. However, a patient with AI would also have an early diastolic murmur best heard in the right upper sternal border. An isolated low-pitched, late diastolic sound on cardiac examination suggests another cause.

Image File: 422-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6006ff4aa9375.jpg

**C - Thickening of the mitral valve leaflets** - Thickening of the mitral leaflet is seen in mitral stenosis and is the cause of the opening snap, which is an early diastolic sound that is best heard at the apex in the left lateral decubitus position. However, the opening snap is a high-pitched sound, unlike the low-pitched sound heard here, and it would be accompanied by the late-diastolic, decrescendo murmur of mitral stenosis.

Image File: 422-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb87d493973.jpg

**E - Impaired closure of the mitral valve** - Impaired closure of the mitral valve, which can be due to organic changes in the valve leaflets or chordae tendinae (as seen in degenerative mitral valve diseases, rheumatic fever, or infective endocarditis), causes mitral regurgitation (MR). MR is typically associated with a high-pitched, blowing, holosystolic murmur that is best heard over the apex (the 5th intercostal space at the midclavicular line) as blood backflows from the left ventricle to the left atrium. While an early diastolic sound (S3) might be heard in severe cases of MR, S4 gallop is not a typical finding.

Image File: 422-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8d86971a6.jpg

