### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Paradoxical embolism** - Paradoxical embolism is associated with atrial septal defects (ASD, PFO) and ventricular septal defects (VSD), which allows right-sided thromboemboli to enter the left-sided circulation by bypassing the pulmonary circulation. An ASD causes wide splitting of S2 that is fixed (does not change with respiration) due to increased volume within the pulmonary circulation. A VSD can manifest with a holosystolic murmur.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Sudden cardiac death** - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) typically manifests with a systolic ejection murmur caused by left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (LVOT). Hypertrophic myocardium, fibrosis, and disarrangement of cardiac myocytes predispose to potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias, which can lead to sudden cardiac death, usually during or after physical activity. If severe enough (and then likely symptomatic), HCM can also lead to the paradoxical splitting of S2, in which the aortic valve closes later than the pulmonary valve (P2, then A2). In an otherwise healthy patient, there is a more likely anatomic cause that explains the fixed, wide splitting of S2 in which the pulmonary valve closes later than the aortic valve (A2, then P2).

**B - Cerebral aneurysm** - Cerebral aneurysms are associated with coarctation of the aorta. Coarctation can manifest with a systolic ejection murmur over the left paravertebral area due to blood flowing through the aortic narrowing and/or a continuous murmur from collateral vessels heard between the shoulder blades. It does not manifest with a fixed, wide splitting of S2. Coarctation of the aorta may also be accompanied by other symptoms, such as hypertension, lower extremity cyanosis, lower extremity claudication, cold feet, dyspnea on exertion, or chest pain.

**C - Left ventricular hypertrophy** - Left ventricular hypertrophy is the often consequence of volume overload or increased pressures in the left ventricle (e.g., aortic regurgitation, aortic stenosis). ASD, PFO (seen here), and VSD increase the volume in the right ventricle and subsequently lead to right ventricular hypertrophy. In the case of large septal defects, untreated chronic volume overload in the right heart leads to severe hypertrophy and pressure reversal (Eisenmenger syndrome), which then shunts deoxygenated blood to the left ventricle, leading to cyanosis.

**E - Infective endocarditis** - Congenital heart defects (e.g., ventricular septal defect, pulmonary stenosis) and predamaged heart valves (e.g., aortic stenosis, mitral valve regurgitation) can predispose to infective endocarditis. However, this risk is negligible in ASDs and PFOs.

