### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Myocardial perfusion scan under pharmacological stress** - In a female patient under the age of 60 who presents with typical angina, the pretest probability of coronary artery disease (CAD) is intermediate. In patients with stable angina and intermediate pretest probability of CAD, follow-up with cardiac stress testing should occur. Because this patient's leg amputation limits her exercise capacity, imaging under pharmacological stress test is preferred. This method can help to detect stress-induced myocardial ischemia, which would manifest as an area of restricted perfusion that is reversible with rest.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Upper endoscopy** - Upper endoscopy is part of the diagnostic workup of patients with suspected GERD who are at risk of complicated disease (i.e., persistent vomiting, weight loss, GI bleed, men ≥ 50 with > 5 years of symptoms, smoking), or when an empirical trial of medical therapy with PPIs has failed. The clinical features of GERD can resemble those of angina pectoris (dull chest pain, shortness of breath, and/or upper epigastric discomfort). However, in a patient with a history of typical angina and multiple cardiac risk factors, further cardiac workup should be initiated first.

**C - Coronary angiography** - Coronary angiography is considered the gold standard for the diagnosis of CAD, but it is an invasive test and may have serious complications. Therefore, coronary angiography is reserved for patients with evidence of acute coronary syndrome (ACS), stable angina with a high pretest probability of CAD, or stable angina with intermediate pretest probability and abnormal cardiac stress test results. This patient is asymptomatic at rest and has normal cardiac markers and ECG findings, making ACS very unlikely. Because of her intermediate pretest probability of CAD, a less invasive procedure should be initiated first.

**D - Echocardiography at rest** - Resting echocardiography can be used to detect both blood flow abnormalities and ventricular wall motion dysfunction. Considering the patient is asymptomatic at rest and has a normal resting ECG, this test is unlikely to detect wall motion abnormalities that result from exercise-induced ischemia.

**E - Repeat ECG under treadmill stress** - In patients with stable angina and an intermediate pretest probability of CAD, follow-up with cardiac stress testing should occur. A treadmill stress test can be performed in patients who are able to exercise at an adequate level. For an exercise treadmill test to be sensitive enough to detect stress-induced ischemia, a patient must achieve 85% of the predicted maximum heart rate (220 - age) during the test. Because of this patient's amputation, her ability to use a treadmill is limited. Other contraindications to exercise stress testing include acute myocardial infarction, uncontrolled arrhythmias, and severe aortic stenosis.

**F - Magnetic resonance angiography** - MR angiography can be used to confirm vascular pathologies of larger vessels (e.g., aortic dissection) but does not allow for detailed evaluation of the coronary arteries and plaques. Patients with aortic dissection can present with chest pain and hypertension; however, the pain is most often sudden, severe, and sharp or tearing in nature. Other findings include a pulse deficit and asymmetrical blood pressure readings between limbs, neither of which is seen in this patient. A suitable noninvasive imaging modality for the diagnosis of CAD is coronary CT angiography, which can be used in symptomatic patients at intermediate risk for CAD and/or patients with equivocal stress test results.

