### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Enalapril** - ACE inhibitors such enalapril have been found to decrease remodeling by slowing down the rate of left ventricular dilation after acute myocardial infarction (MI). This effect is achieved by decreasing preload and afterload due to blockage of angiotensin II. This patient's presentation of medication non-compliance after a MI, dyspnea on exertion, left ventricular dilation on echocardiogram, and worsening ejection fraction of 40% is consistent with mild to moderate congestive heart failure.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Digoxin** - Although inotropic agents such as digoxin improve hemodynamic function in patients with congestive heart failure, it is mainly used for symptom improvement, not for prevention of cardiac remodeling.

**B - Hydrochlorothiazide** - Hydrochlorothiazide is usually added to baseline treatment with furosemide in patients with congestive heart failure that do not achieve sufficient diuresis with loop diuretics alone. Thiazides are used for symptoms relief, not for prevention of cardiac remodeling.

**C - Nifedipine** - Nifedipine has been found to worsen symptoms and hemodynamic status in patients with congestive heart failure and reduced ejection fraction. Although recent studies have shown attenuated cardiac remodeling when nifedipine is used, there are alternative drugs that have been established as first-line therapy for cardiac remodeling prevention.

**D - Diltiazem** - Calcium channel blockers (CCBs) such as diltiazem have not been found to improve mortality and/or remodeling in patients with CHF post myocardial infarction. CCBs are mainly used for symptomatic treatment.

**F - Abciximab** - Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists such as abciximab are mainly used in high-risk patients with myocardial infarction undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Recent studies have shown a decrease in left ventricular remodeling when abciximab is used right after PCI, but these findings were evaluated in a small population and more research is necessary to determine the benefits. There are alternative drugs that have been established as first-line therapy for cardiac remodeling prevention.

**G - Atorvastatin** - Although statins have been found to play a role in prevention of left ventricular remodeling in patients with congestive heart failure after myocardial infarction, there are alternative drugs that have been established as first-line therapy for cardiac remodeling prevention.

