### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Vagal maneuvers** - Vagal maneuvers are the initial step in the management of a stable patient with PSVT, as they are quick, can be performed by the patient him or herself, and have no side effects.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous procainamide** - Like all class Ia antiarrhythmics, procainamide stabilizes the cellular membrane. It may be used in the management of PSVT (specifically in cases of antidromic AVRT). However, it is a second-line treatment and is only used if the first-line treatment is unsuccessful.

**C - Coronary angioplasty** - Coronary angioplasty is used for the acute treatment of myocardial infarction. Although this patient smokes and has a family history of cardiovascular disease (both risk factors for MI), her presentation does not suggest MI (as she has no chest pain and is very young). Additionally, the ECG lacks typical findings of ischemia such as T-wave changes and ST elevation or depression.

**D - Intravenous adenosine** - Adenosine is used for the treatment of AVNRT and orthodromic AVRT, but it is a second-line treatment used if first-line treatment fails.

**E - Aspirin** - Aspirin is an important drug for the secondary prevention of myocardial infarction. Although this patient smokes and has a family history of cardiovascular disease (both risk factors for MI), her presentation does not suggest MI (as she has no chest pain and is very young). Additionally, the ECG lacks typical findings of ischemia such as T-wave changes and ST elevation or depression.

