### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Alcohol hallucinosis** - This patient's hallucinations (hearing the wallpaper speak) 12 hours after the last alcoholic beverage was consumed suggests a diagnosis of alcohol hallucinosis. An intact sensorium (i.e., alert and oriented) and normal vital signs as well as the absence of autonomic instability (e.g., hypertension, tachycardia, hyperthermia), disorientation, and agitation help distinguish this diagnosis from delirium tremens. Alcohol hallucinosis usually resolves within 24 to 48 hours and withdrawal symptoms can be managed with benzodiazepines.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Phencyclidine intoxication** - Phencyclidine (PCP) intoxication can cause hallucinations, as seen in this patient. However, phencyclidine intoxication classically causes aggressiveness, agitation, and increased pain tolerance, which is not consistent with this patient history. Furthermore, PCP intoxication usually lasts 1–4 hours. It is therefore unlikely that this patient is still intoxicated at least 12 hours after hospitalization.

**C - Cocaine intoxication** - Cocaine intoxication can cause autonomic hyperactivity (e.g., anxiety, diaphoresis, tremor) and hallucinations. However, physical exam typically shows vital sign abnormalities (tachycardia, hypertension) and pupillary dilation, which this patient lacks. Furthermore, since this patient has been in the hospital for over 12 hours, continued intoxication is unlikely.

**D - Wernicke encephalopathy** - This patient's alcohol use places him at risk for thiamine deficiency and Wernicke encephalopathy. However, he is not confused and lacks ophthalmic or ataxic findings on neurological exam, making this diagnosis unlikely.

**E - Delirium tremens** - Delirium tremens can cause hallucinations, as seen in this patient. However, DT usually occurs between 48 to 96 hours after a last drink and patients will have vital sign abnormalities (e.g., tachycardia, hypertension) with a disrupted sensorium (lack of orientation, confusion). Since this patient's vital signs and orientation are normal and his last drink was likely within 24 hours, another diagnosis is more likely.

**F - Brief psychotic disorder** - Brief psychotic disorder or other psychotic disorders can cause auditory hallucinations, as seen in this patient. However, this diagnosis can only be made in the absence of any substance use, and this patient consumed alcohol very recently. Furthermore, patients with brief psychotic disorder will have a normal physical exam, which is not consistent with this patient's autonomic hyperactivity (anxiety, diaphoresis, tremor).

