### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Abdominal aortic aneurysm** - The USPSTF recommends that men 65–75 years of age who are current or former smokers, like this patient, should receive a one-time screening with ultrasonography for an abdominal aortic aneurysm. Ultrasonography can determine the presence and size of an aneurysm, as well as the presence of a blood clot in an aneurysm. It is also the modality of choice for monitoring patients with this condition.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Colorectal cancer** - The USPSTF recommends screening for colorectal cancer in all asymptomatic adults between 45 and 75 years of age who have an average risk (e.g., no inflammatory bowel disease, adenomatous polyps, or family history of an inherited cancer syndrome). The previously recommended age to start screening was 50 years. Colonoscopy every 10 years is an appropriate strategy. Because this patient had his last colonoscopy 8 years ago, which was normal, and lacks symptoms suggestive of colorectal cancer (e.g., weight loss, hematochezia), a colonoscopy is not indicated at this time.

**B - Intracranial aneurysm** - This patient's hypertension, history of smoking, and advanced age increase his risk of developing an intracranial aneurysm. However, screening in asymptomatic patients is not indicated in the general population because it is not cost-effective, owing to the prevalence being too low and these aneurysms having a low risk of rupture. Screening may be considered in patients with genetic conditions associated with a higher incidence of intracranial aneurysms (e.g., autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome) and in patients with first-degree relatives with a history of intracranial aneurysms, neither of which is seen here.

**C - Lung cancer** - The USPSTF recommends annual screening with a low-dose CT scan of the chest in patients 50–80 years of age who have at least a 20 pack-year smoking history and who are current smokers or have stopped within the past 15 years. This patient has a 20 pack-year smoking history, but he stopped smoking 25 years ago. A low-dose CT scan of the chest is, therefore, not recommended at this time.

**E - Osteoporosis** - The USPSTF recommends osteoporosis screening with bone densitometry scan every 10 years for women aged 65 years or older. Although some suggest a one-time screening for men older than 70 years of age, there is insufficient evidence to suggest that screening is beneficial in younger men. Therefore, screening for osteoporosis is not indicated in this patient.

