### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Aortic valve regurgitation** - This patient has an early diastolic decrescendo murmur that is heard best on the left sternal border and, therefore, suggests aortic regurgitation. Regurgitation of blood from the aorta into the left ventricle causes widened pulse pressure with decreased diastolic blood pressures. Over time, this increase in preload causes left ventricular enlargement and myocardial hypertrophy. In patients with chronic aortic regurgitation, as seen here, signs and symptoms of left heart failure (exertional and nocturnal dyspnea, S3 gallop) occur as soon as the left ventricle becomes unable to maintain a normal cardiac output. Maneuvers that increase afterload (e.g., handgrip) increase the intensity of the associated murmur, as a result of the enlargement of regurgitation volume across the valve.

Image File: 431-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8965271b4.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Mitral valve stenosis** - Mitral stenosis can cause dyspnea on exertion and orthopnea, as seen in this patient. Although mitral stenosis produces a decrescendo diastolic murmur, it is usually slightly delayed after S2 and would be heard best along the left mid-clavicular line (at third left intercostal space), not the left sternal border. A prominent S1 and/or an opening snap of the mitral valve after S2 may also be present. Furthermore, since mitral stenosis restricts left ventricular blood flow, left ventricular preload is decreased, such that carotid pulses would be diminished and an S3 would not be present.

Image File: 431-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb87d493973.jpg

**B - Mitral valve regurgitation** - Mitral regurgitation (e.g., due to mitral valve prolapse) can cause dyspnea on exertion and orthopnea, as seen in this patient. However, mitral regurgitation produces a holosystolic murmur that is heard best at the apex (5th ICS at the left mid-clavicular line), not a diastolic murmur that is heard best at the left sternal border.

Image File: 431-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8d86971a6.jpg

**C - Tricuspid valve regurgitation** - While very rare, tricuspid regurgitation can cause signs of right-sided heart failure (lower extremity edema, hepatomegaly), but not signs of left-sided heart failure (dyspnea, orthopnea), as seen in this patient. Furthermore, tricuspid regurgitation produces a holosystolic murmur heard best at the 4th intercostal space of the left sternal border, not a diastolic murmur.

Image File: 431-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8d86971a6.jpg

**E - Mitral valve prolapse** - Mitral valve prolapse can cause fatigue and dyspnea on exertion but is asymptomatic in most patients. Furthermore, it causes a high-frequency mid-systolic click that is heard best in the mitral region. This patient has a diastolic murmur, which is not consistent with mitral valve prolapse.

Image File: 431-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8fa812d65.jpg

**F - Aortic valve stenosis** - Aortic stenosis can cause dyspnea on exertion and orthopnea, as seen in this patient. However, it commonly causes a crescendo-decrescendo systolic murmur, not a decrescendo diastolic murmur. Furthermore, aortic stenosis will more likely cause an S4 from a stiff myocardium due to left ventricular hypertrophy, not an S3. Carotid pulses tend to be diminished and delayed, not prominent.

Image File: 431-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb888d89352.jpg

