### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Bicuspid aortic valve** - While there are many etiologies of AR, the most common cause of chronic AR in a young patient is a congenital bicuspid valve. Bicuspid valve is also a common cause of early-onset aortic stenosis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Valve detachment** - Valve detachment is a complication of aortic dissection if the aortic valve is involved, leading to aortic regurgitation (AR). While this young patient does have signs of AR, he does not have any risk factors for the development of an aortic dissection in a young person, including connective tissue diseases (especially Ehlers-Danlos syndrome or Marfan syndrome) or a deceleration injury in a motor vehicle accident.

**B - Valve sclerosis** - Aortic valve sclerosis is caused by calcification of the aortic valve leaflets and is the most common cause of aortic stenosis in the elderly. Although it can be associated with AR, it would not be expected in this young patient.

**C - Asymmetric septal hypertrophy** - Asymmetric septal hypertrophy is not associated with AR but is the underlying pathology of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). It leads to left ventricular outflow obstruction in young patients and would present with exertional syncope and chest pain. The murmur heard in HCM is a systolic ejection murmur (crescendo-decrescendo) that increases with the Valsalva maneuver and standing, unlike this patient's diastolic murmur. It also does not cause a widened pulse pressure nor de Musset sign.

**D - Antistreptolysin O antibodies** - Antistreptolysin O titers are used to confirm a group A streptococcal infection (GAS) and are especially useful when acute rheumatic fever (ARF) is suspected. However, ARF usually occurs within 2–4 weeks of acute infection. This patient had an infection with streptococcal pharyngitis that was adequately treated 10 years ago and would not have positive titers at this point.

**E - Myxomatous degeneration** - Myxomatous degeneration is the most common underlying pathology in mitral valve prolapse (MVP). MVP is also seen in younger patients, especially those with a connective tissue disease such as Ehlers-Danlos syndrome or Marfan syndrome. However, this patient has a diastolic murmur and clinical signs consistent with AR and not MVP (rather heard as a systolic murmur with clicking). Although myxomatous degeneration is occasionally associated with AR, this patient has no clinical signs of a connective tissue disease like hypermobility, hyperelasticity (Ehlers-Danlos) or tall stature/long limbs (Marfan), and another underlying cause is more likely.

**G - Valve vegetation** - Valve vegetations from infectious endocarditis (IE) are a common cause of aortic regurgitation (especially in developing countries), as the vegetations prevent the valve from creating a proper seal to prevent backflow during diastole. This patient lacks constitutional symptoms, such as fever and chills, tachycardia, and malaise that would make IE likely. Furthermore, the patient lacks common extracardiac manifestations in left-sided IE, such as splinter hemorrhages, Janeway lesions, Osler nodes, and/or Roth spots.

