### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Aortic dissection** - An aortic dissection typically occurs in males 40–70 years of age with hypertension. It causes sudden and severe pain, typically of the anterior chest (in an ascending dissection) or the back and interscapular region (in a descending dissection), which can migrate as the dissection progresses. Other clinical features include elevated blood pressure, asymmetrical blood pressure and pulse readings between limbs, diminished distal pulses, syncope, sweating, and confusion. Aortic dissection manifests as a widened mediastinum on chest x-ray. Extension of the dissection into the aortic valve causes aortic regurgitation. However, unlike the murmur of aortic regurgitation from aortic valve disease, which is prominent along the left sternal border, the murmur of aortic regurgitation from aortic dissection is prominent along the right sternal border.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pulmonary embolism** - Pulmonary embolism can also present with acute shortness of breath, chest pain, and tachycardia. However, the chest pain of pulmonary embolism typically is pleuritic and presents with hypotension. Other common presenting findings are cough and symptoms of deep vein thrombosis (unilateral leg pain), which are absent in this patient.

**B - Esophageal rupture** - Esophageal rupture can also present with acute shortness of breath, chest pain, and tachycardia. However, the pain is typically retrosternal and radiates to the back. Further, there is usually a distinct precipitating cause, such as forceful vomiting, iatrogenic perforation (e.g., during upper endoscopy), foreign body ingestion, trauma, or malignancy, none of which are present in this patient.

**D - Spontaneous pneumothorax** - Spontaneous pneumothorax can also present with acute shortness of breath, chest pain, and tachycardia. The chest pain of spontaneous pneumothorax is typically pleuritic, not a sudden and migrating anterior chest pain as in this patient. Lung examination can demonstrate reduced or absent breath sounds, hyperresonant percussion, and decreased fremitus on the ipsilateral side. However, the lungs are clear to auscultation in this patient.

**E - Papillary muscle rupture** - Papillary muscle rupture is a complication of myocardial infarction leading to mitral regurgitation that can also present with a new murmur. However, the murmur is typically systolic. Additionally, clinical features include acute onset of hypotension and it presents 2–7 days post-infarction, which is not the case here.

**F - Myocardial infarction** - Myocardial infarction can also present with acute shortness of breath, chest pain, and tachycardia. Pain is typically retrosternal and can have left-sided radiation. ECG would likely show findings other than sinus tachycardia, such as the characteristic changes in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction. Further, myocardial infarction would not explain this patient's diastolic murmur.

