### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Obtain three sets of blood cultures** - Blood cultures are the best initial test for the diagnosis of infective endocarditis (IE). Because patients with IE usually have continuous bacteremia, blood cultures are positive in a high percentage of cases. Having two positive blood cultures fulfills one of the two major Duke criteria, which allows a diagnosis of IE to be determined. Between three and five sets of blood cultures should be obtained from different venipuncture sites. This step should be performed prior to initiating antibiotic therapy, as antibiotic administration is associated with false-negative blood cultures.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer intravenous vancomycin** - Vancomycin is the empiric treatment of choice for infective endocarditis, as it is effective against the most common causative organisms (Staphylococci and Streptococci). However, a different intervention should precede the start of empiric antibiotic therapy in patients with infective endocarditis.

**B - Measure antinuclear antibodies** - Antinuclear antibodies (ANA) are measured as a screening test for several autoimmune diseases including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). SLE can present with fever, fatigue, joint pain, splenomegaly, glomerulonephritis, and elevated ESR, all of which are seen in this patient. A rare complication of SLE is Libman-Sacks endocarditis (LSE). However, other typical features of SLE (i.e., malar rash, photosensitivity) are absent and this patient's leukocytosis would not be consistent with this condition. In addition, SLE is rare in children under the age of 8 years.

**C - Measure rheumatoid factor** - Rheumatoid factor (RF) is a nonspecific inflammatory marker that may be elevated in patients with autoimmune or infectious diseases. Although RF is part of the minor diagnostic criteria of IE indicating immunologic phenomena, another, more appropriate step, must first be taken.

**E - Obtain a transesophageal echocardiography** - Transesophageal echocardiography is used to evaluate evidence of endocardial involvement (e.g., vegetation, abscess, regurgitation, dehiscence of a prosthetic valve), which is one of the two major Duke criteria used to establish a diagnosis of infective endocarditis. However, another, more appropriate step, must first be taken in this patient. In addition, transthoracic echocardiography is typically performed first, since it is a much less invasive test.

**F - Obtain a renal biopsy** - Renal biopsy is performed in a variety of pathologies (e.g., renal carcinoma, SLE, glomerulonephritis). Infective endocarditis is associated with numerous systemic complications including renal injury (e.g., infarction from septic emboli) and glomerulonephritis (elevated creatinine, presence of RBCs, mild proteinuria). However, renal biopsy is not indicated in the evaluation of either of these complications in IE. In addition, another, more important step, must first be taken in this patient.

