### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Right-heart catheterization** - Right-heart catheterization is the test of choice to confirm the diagnosis of pulmonary hypertension as well as the specific subgroup, in this case pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Diagnosis is made when the mean pulmonary artery pressure is ≥ 20 mm Hg at rest and underlying pulmonary and left heart conditions (e.g., valvular heart disease, systolic dysfunction, diastolic dysfunction) are excluded. While PAH is often idiopathic, amphetamine and cocaine use have been associated with development of PAH. This patient has evidence of right-sided heart failure from her PAH, resulting in cor pulmonale. This indicates a worse prognosis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Polysomnography** - Polysomnography is the test of choice to diagnose obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), which can cause group 3 pulmonary hypertension and subsequent right-sided heart failure (cor pulmonale). However, this patient lacks other typical features of OSA ,such as restless sleep with excessive daytime sleepiness, snoring, apneic episodes and impaired cognitive function. Furthermore, her presentation is consistent with an alternate subgroup of pulmonary hypertension and polysomnography will not confirm the diagnosis.

**B - CT angiography** - CT angiography (CTA) can be used to diagnose pulmonary embolism (PE). Chronic thromboembolic disease can cause group 4 pulmonary hypertension, and would fit with the duration of her symptoms, however V/Q scan is actually preferred as it is more sensitive for this diagnosis. Furthermore, her presentation is consistent with an alternate subgroup of pulmonary hypertension and CTA will not confirm the diagnosis.

**C - Doppler echocardiography** - Doppler echocardiography is always part of the initial diagnostic investigation in patients with suspected pulmonary hypertension to estimate the pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP), as well as valvular and ventricular function. Chronic left-sided heart failure is the underlying etiology of group 2 pulmonary hypertension. While an ECHO would be important to perform in this patient (especially to look for mitral stenosis given her immigration history), it cannot confirm the diagnosis. Additionally, this patient does not have any pulmonary edema or extra heart sounds that suggest left-sided heart failure.

**D - High-resolution CT of the lung** - High-resolution CT of the lung is used in the diagnosis of interstitial lung disease (ILD), which can cause group 3 pulmonary hypertension. ILD may present with fatigue, dyspnea, and clubbing of the nails, as seen in this patient. However, ILD typically also presents with bibasilar, inspiratory crackles on auscultation, and reticular opacities on chest x-ray. Her presentation is more consistent with an alternate subgroup and CT will not confirm the diagnosis.

**F - Serologic testing** - Serologic testing can be used to diagnose certain connective tissue diseases, such as scleroderma (SSc), which are associated with group 1 pulmonary hypertension (pulmonary arterial hypertension). This patient lacks other typical features of SSc, such as hardening of the skin, sclerodactyly, Raynaud phenomenon, and dysphagia. Moreover, serologic testing would only confirm the presence of a connective tissue disorder, not confirm the diagnosis of pulmonary hypertension.

**G - Spirometry** - Spirometry is used to diagnose obstructive lung disease (e.g., asthma, COPD) and restrictive lung disease, which can cause group 3 pulmonary hypertension. While her smoking status and symptoms could be consistent with COPD, her overall presentation is suggestive of an alternate subgroup of pulmonary hypertension and spirometry will not confirm the diagnosis.

**H - Bronchoscopy** - Bronchoscopy is indicated in a variety of settings, such as evaluation of possible malignancy or atypical/chronic infection. Pulmonary malignancy or chronic infection could present with dyspnea and in rare cases, can cause group 5 pulmonary hypertension. However, her chest x-ray is not indicative of a tumor or infection requiring bronchoscopy. Her presentation is more consistent with an alternate subgroup of pulmonary hypertension and bronchoscopy will not confirm the diagnosis.

