### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Methylphenidate** - Methylphenidate and other psychostimulants, despite adverse effects (e.g., anorexia, nausea, and weight loss), should be considered for terminally ill patients with severe acute depression and a very limited life expectancy (i.e., days to weeks) and/or those at risk of suicide because the drugs are fast-acting (response often within 1–2 days). In many cases, psychostimulants are combined with SSRIs and phased out gradually over a period of weeks if the patient lives long enough to benefit from the effects of an SSRI.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - Megestrol** - Megestrol acetate is an appetite stimulant that can be used in adults with cancer-related anorexia or cachexia. Although it would be beneficial for improving this patient's appetite and low weight, it would not help in the treatment of her MDD, which should first be treated considering her recent suicide attempt and short life expectancy.

**C - Fluoxetine** - Although fluoxetine and other SSRIs are first-line drugs in the treatment of MDD, the response to treatment generally takes ∼ 4 weeks. However, this terminally ill patient with a short life expectancy has severe depression and recently attempted suicide. Although an SSRI should be considered, she would initially benefit most from a faster-acting treatment.

**D - Cognitive behavioral therapy** - CBT is effective in patients with MDD and may be offered to cancer patients to evaluate beliefs and thoughts as a means of processing the diagnosis and developing skills for coping with it. However, CBT is a long-term treatment that, especially in cancer patients, should be combined with pharmacologic therapy. Additionally, in this terminally ill patient with a short life expectancy who has MDD and a recent suicide attempt, a faster acting treatment modality is indicated.

**E - Bupropion** - Bupropion is a drug approved for MDD, but it only takes effect after 1–2 weeks of administration. This terminally ill patient with a short life expectancy has severe depression and recently attempted suicide; she requires faster-acting treatment. Moreover, bupropion is contraindicated in patients who are at risk of seizures, as it decreases the seizure threshold. This patient has been diagnosed with brain metastases, which make her prone to convulsions. Lastly, bupropion would prevent weight gain, which is not desirable in a patient with cancer cachexia.

