### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - “Losing approximately 15% of your current body weight would be the most effective measure”** - Weight loss is the most effective method of reducing blood pressure in overweight patients. Studies have shown a reduction in systolic blood pressure of approximately 1 mm Hg for every 1 kg of weight loss. This reduction is independent of exercise. Additionally, this patient would have a BMI of 24.5 kg/m2 after a 15-kg weight loss; maintaining a normal body weight has also been shown to reduce blood pressure.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - “Lifestyle modifications without pharmacotherapy cannot sufficiently reduce high blood pressure”** - Nonpharmacological measures (i.e., lifestyle changes) should be pursued in every patient with a systolic blood pressure > 130 mm Hg or a diastolic blood pressure > 90 mm Hg and have been shown to effectively reduce blood pressure. Lifestyle modifications can be initiated with or without pharmacotherapy, as not all patients with high blood pressure require antihypertensive drugs right away. The decision of whether to initiate pharmacological treatment depends on the patient's blood pressure, comorbidities, and preference. This patient wishes to avoid pharmacological therapy.

**B - "Adopting a DASH diet would be the the most effective measure"** - The DASH diet has been shown to reduce systolic blood pressure by approximately 11 mm Hg and could be offered to this patient as a complementary therapy. The DASH diet has also been shown to reduce levels of LDL cholesterol, which leads to improved cardiovascular health. However, there are other lifestyle modifications that can result in a more significant reduction of blood pressure.

**C - "Reducing your alcohol consumption to a maximum of one drink per day would be the most effective measure"** - Decreasing alcohol consumption to a maximum of one drink per day is a healthy lifestyle modification that should be encouraged in all patients. However, moderating alcohol consumption has only been shown to lead to a reduction in systolic blood pressure of up to 4 mm Hg. There are other lifestyle modifications that can result in a more significant reduction.

**D - "Reducing your sodium intake to less than 1500 mg per day would be the most effective measure"** - Reducing sodium intake to less than 1500 mg per day has been shown to reduce systolic blood pressure by approximately 5–6 mm Hg and could be offered as complementary lifestyle modification. Additionally, a low-sodium diet improves vascular structure and function and may help reduce the risk of gastric cancer, nephrolithiasis, and osteoporosis. However, there are other lifestyle modifications that can result in a more significant reduction of systolic blood pressure.

**F - "Walking for 30 minutes, 5 days a week would be the most effective measure"** - Walking for 30 minutes, 5 days per week has been shown to successfully reduce systolic blood pressure by approximately 5–8 mm Hg, and could be offered to this patient as a complementary therapy. Regular aerobic exercise also has additional health benefits, including the potential to reduce total cholesterol and raise HDL cholesterol as well as reduce mortality due to cardiovascular disease. However, there are other lifestyle modifications that can result in a more significant reduction of systolic blood pressure.

