### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Amyloid deposition** - Amyloid plaque is a common sequela of multiple myeloma and forms as a result of excess production of monoclonal immunoglobulins. Immunoglobulins can deposit in any organ, including the heart, in which case they cause a specific type of restrictive cardiomyopathy known as infiltrative cardiomyopathy. Thickening of the myocardium results in diastolic dysfunction and back-flow of blood causes shortness of breath, jugular venous distention, and pulmonary edema, which are all seen here.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Chronic vasoconstriction** - Chronic vasoconstriction can develop in long-term cocaine use and is due to alpha-1 receptor stimulation. Cocaine is toxic to the myocardium, causes myocardial thinning, and can lead to dilated cardiomyopathy (usually seen on echocardiography). However, this patient's TTE did not support the diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy and he has no history of substance abuse.

**B - Myosin gene mutation** - Myosin gene mutation is an autosomal dominant mutation seen in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), and the obstructive type of this disease can cause congestive heart failure. Multiple myeloma, however, is not associated with myosin gene mutation. Moreover, HCM is usually seen in young male athletes with a positive family history.

**D - Chronic hypercalcemia** - Chronic hypercalcemia is often seen in patients with multiple myeloma. Hypercalcemia can have a wide range of findings, including constipation, bone pains, and psychiatric mood disorders. Cardiomyopathy, however, is not caused by hypercalcemia.

**E - Iron deposition** - Iron deposition can lead to restrictive cardiomyopathy (although dilated cardiomyopathy is more common). Hemochromatosis is one condition that is associated with a high iron state. Patients with this condition can develop cardiomyopathy as a result of iron deposition, which presents with symptoms similar to those seen in this patient, including shortness of breath and JVD. However, other features typically associated with hemochromatosis (e.g., bronzed skin, diabetes, arthralgia) would be expected.

Image File: 443-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6058943fafed6.jpg

