### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Measure serum TSH levels** - All patients with new-onset symptomatic Afib should be evaluated for potential causes of arrhythmia. Measurement of serum TSH levels is the best initial step in the diagnosis of hyperthyroidism, a common cause of symptomatic Afib that can manifest with hypertension with wide pulse pressure (140/70 mm Hg), tremor, and warm skin, as seen in this patient. Individuals with Graves disease, the most common cause of hyperthyroidism, can also develop pretibial myxedema, which manifests as nonpitting bilateral pretibial edema, also seen here. Given that this patient has classic features of hyperthyroidism and Graves disease, her TSH levels should be measured at this time.

Treatment of hyperthyroidism (e.g., with antithyroid drugs and/or surgery) in patients who have developed Afib usually results in conversion to sinus rhythm. Beta blockers such as propranolol can be administered to reduce the heart rate and provide symptomatic relief. Electrical or pharmacological cardioversion is a last-resort treatment in patients who still have Afib after achieving euthyroid status.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Observation and follow-up in 1 week** - Expectant management may be considered in patients with paroxysmal Afib, which can be due to stress or excess coffee or alcohol intake and typically resolves without treatment. This patient's hypertension with wide pulse pressure, tremor, warm skin, and pretibial edema suggests a reversible cause of Afib, which requires further evaluation.

**C - Perform transthoracic echocardiography** - Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) is indicated in all patients with new-onset Afib to assess cardiac function and rule out underlying structural cardiac disease (e.g., mitral valve stenosis). While this test should be performed at some point during this patient's workup, another step is more appropriate at this time. TTE does not need to be performed at the initial visit if the patient is stable. This patient's hypertension with wide pulse pressure and bilateral nonpitting pretibial edema suggests a different cause of Afib than structural cardiac disease.

**D - Perform CT pulmonary angiography** - CT pulmonary angiography (CTPA) is indicated in patients with suspected pulmonary embolism (PE) who are stable and have a high pretest probability of PE. This patient has a number of risk factors for deep vein thrombosis (DVT), and thus PE, including smoking, use of the contraceptive pill, and a recent long bus trip. However, with a Wells score for PE of 1.5 (tachycardia), which indicates a low pretest probability of PE, measurement of D-dimers rather than CTPA would be indicated.

**E - Obtain urine toxicology screening** - Urine toxicology screening is used to confirm the presence of drugs. Intoxication with cocaine or amphetamines may lead to cardiac arrhythmias such as acute Afib. While this patient presents with a tachycardic arrhythmia, tremor in both hands, and warm extremities, she does not have other features of sympathomimetic drug intoxication such as mydriasis or euphoria. Moreover, hypertension with wide pulse pressure and bilateral nonpitting pretibial edema suggests a different cause of Afib.

