### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - High-output heart failure** - Arteriovenous fistulas lower peripheral vascular resistance due to shunting of blood from high pressure arterial circulation to the low pressure venous system. This causes lower systemic vascular resistance that results in both elevated heart rate and decreased effective circulating volume, triggering activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS). RAAS activation in turn causes retention of sodium and water, resulting in increased cardiac filling pressures with elevated cardiac output, which may culminate in a state of high-output heart failure. This patient requires immediate surgical division of the fistula to reverse current symptoms and prevent irreversible myocardial damage.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - AV fistula aneurysm** - Arteriovenous fistula aneurysms may present with a focal enlargement of the graft and pose a risk of infection or rupture. However, this patient does not present with any abnormal graft enlargement on examination or overlying skin changes (e.g., ulceration or infection). Moreover, an arteriovenous fistula aneurysm would not explain his current symptoms.

**B - Dialysis disequilibrium syndrome** - Dialysis disequilibrium syndrome would not present with symptoms of heart failure, but rather headache and disorientation secondary to cerebral edema. The edema is caused by osmotic shifts in patients initiating dialysis for the first time and is potentially due to rapid reduction of blood urea nitrogen. This syndrome is much less prevalent today due to preventative measures such as earlier initiation of dialysis (before urea nitrogen levels become significantly elevated) or starting dialysis more slowly to correct the uremia at a slower rate.

**C - Sepsis** - As the patient is afebrile, normotensive, and has no identifiable source of infection, sepsis is an unlikely cause his symptoms.

**D - Pulmonary embolism** - Although pulmonary embolism (PE) may cause acute shortness of breath and tachycardia, the duration of the patient's symptoms and the lack of unilateral leg edema, risk factors for deep venous thrombosis and PE (major surgery in last 4 weeks, active cancer), or calf tenderness make PE an unlikely diagnosis.

**E - Constrictive pericarditis** - Constrictive pericarditis can present with signs of heart failure, as seen in this patient. Additionally, uremia is a potential cause of the condition and this patient has chronic kidney disease. However, the lack of chest pain makes pericarditis unlikely, and the patient should not be uremic since he is currently undergoing dialysis three times a week. Additionally, he has no pericardial knock, and the presence of an S3 gallop suggests a different diagnosis.

