### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Proximal right coronary artery** - Occlusion of the proximal right coronary artery (RCA) can cause an inferior wall myocardial infarction, which in turn can present atypically with epigastric pain. High-degree AV block can occur in this setting because the SA node and AV node are usually supplied by the RCA (the SA node directly, and the AV node via the AV nodal branch). Right-sided leads (V4R, V5R, and V6R) should also be obtained to evaluate for right ventricular (RV) infarction (especially given the patient's jugular venous distention), as the RCA supplies the RV via its right marginal branch.

Image File: 448-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5da477e9949f6.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Left coronary artery** - The left coronary artery (LCA) branches to the left anterior descending artery (LAD) and the left circumflex artery (LCX), so occlusion of the LCA can lead to a massive myocardial infarction involving the a combination of the anterior (ECG changes in I, aVL, V1–6), anteroseptal (I, aVL, V1–4), anterolateral (I, aVL, V5–6/7), apical (I, aVL, V3–5), and posterolateral (II, III, aVF, V5–7, and sometimes I, and aVL) walls. In a patient with left-dominant coronary circulation, LCA occlusion leading to distal occlusion of the posterior interventricular artery (PIV) could also cause a posterior wall myocardial infarction.

**C - Left circumflex artery** - The left circumflex artery (LCX) supplies the lateral and posterior walls of the left ventricle. Occlusion of the LCX causes ECG changes in the lateral (V5, V6, I, aVL) leads. In patients with left-dominant coronary circulation, occlusion of the LCX causes distal infarction of the posterior descending artery, leading to an inferior wall myocardial infarction and ECG changes in the posterior/posterolateral (V7–V9) and inferior (II, III, aVF) leads. However, the LCX is not the most likely source of this patient's inferior wall myocardial infarction because only approx. 10% of the population is left-dominant.

**D - Left anterior descending artery** - Occlusion of the left anterior descending artery (LAD) would cause a myocardial infarction of the anterior (ECG changes in I, aVL, V1–6), anteroseptal (I, aVL, V1–4), anterolateral (I, aVL, V5–6/7), and/or apical wall (I, aVL, V3–5). An anteroseptal myocardial infarction can sometimes cause serious arrhythmias, such as high-degree AV block, since the LAD supplies the left and right bundle branches and partially supplies the left anterior and posterior fascicles. However, conduction abnormalities are more common following an inferior myocardial infarction, as is epigastric pain.

**E - Posterior interventricular artery** - Occlusion of the posterior interventricular artery (PIV) would cause a posterior wall myocardial infarction, which would manifest as ST-segment depression in leads V1 and V2, sometimes with prominent R waves. Posterior leads (V7–9) would show ST-segment elevation. Epigastric pain is not common in posterior wall myocardial infarctions, nor are conduction abnormalities, since the PIV does not supply the conduction system.

