### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Propranolol** - Propranolol is a first-line pharmacologic treatment for performance-only social anxiety disorder and can be given 30–60 minutes before an anxiety-causing event. It may be particularly useful for patients who experience symptoms such as tachycardia and tremor. Cognitive behavioral therapy is an additional first-line treatment and may result in a more durable response than pharmacotherapy.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Olanzapine** - Second-generation antipsychotics, such as olanzapine, are commonly used to treat schizophrenia, psychosis, and bipolar disorder. Although there have been clinical trials that suggest that these drugs may be effective in treating social anxiety disorder, they are not currently approved for this indication. Moreover, this patient has performance-only social anxiety disorder; her anxiety is solely related to giving presentations at work, and she describes normal interactions with others outside of these specific situations. Another type of pharmacotherapy is more appropriate.

**C - Clonazepam** - Benzodiazepines (e.g., clonazepam) are a first-line pharmacologic treatment for performance-only social anxiety disorder but are relatively contraindicated in this patient with a history of alcohol use disorder because of the potential for misuse and drug dependence.

**D - Venlafaxine** - Selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SSNRIs), such as venlafaxine, are a first-line pharmacologic treatment for many anxiety disorders, including social anxiety disorder. However, this patient has performance-only social anxiety disorder; her anxiety is solely related to giving presentations at work, and she describes normal interactions with others outside of these specific situations. SSNRIs are not the preferred treatment for this condition.

**E - Sertraline** - Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), such as sertraline, are a first-line pharmacologic treatment for many anxiety disorders, including social anxiety disorder. However, this patient has performance-only social anxiety disorder; her anxiety is solely related to giving presentations at work, and she describes normal interactions with others outside of these specific situations. SSRIs are not the preferred treatment for this condition.

