### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Subacute thyroiditis** - Subacute thyroiditis is most often a transient, self-limiting inflammation of the thyroid gland. De Quervain's thyroiditis, the granulomatous subtype of subacute thyroiditis, most commonly occurs in women 30–50 years of age and is often preceded by a viral upper respiratory tract infection. It is characterized by fever, malaise, and a painful, diffuse, and firm goiter, as well as a triphasic clinical course of hyperthyroidism (as seen in this patient presenting with tachycardia, widened pulse pressure, sweating, and resting tremor), followed by hypothyroidism, and finally a return to euthyroidism over the span of several months.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Hashimoto thyroiditis** - Hashimoto thyroiditis is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in the US. While hyperthyroidism can occasionally be present in acute phases of Hashimoto's thyroiditis (Hashitoxicosis), the disease is typically asymptomatic in its early stages and only presents with hypothyroidism in later stages. Pain and fever do not typically occur, and the goiter is usually painless. Moreover, signs and symptoms of thyroid dysfunction would be more pronounced than in this patient.

**C - Graves disease** - Graves disease is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism and predominantly affects women. Graves disease would explain this patients symptoms of hyperthyroidism (mild tachycardia, sweating, resting tremor) and would also present with elevated thyroid hormone levels, suppressed TSH, and an enlarged thyroid. However, it would not explain her symptoms of infection (fever, anterior neck pain, tender thyroid gland) or elevated ESR. Furthermore, 123I scan would show a diffusely increased uptake of radioactive iodine, making this diagnosis unlikely.

**D - Thyroid lymphoma** - Primary thyroid lymphoma is a very rare form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma that can result in an enlarged, painful goiter. However, it classically presents with a rapidly growing thyroid mass and neck adenopathy. Fever can occur in association with other constitutional symptoms, but symptoms and laboratory studies consistent with hyperthyroidism would not be expected.

**E - Struma ovarii** - Struma ovarii is a rare cause of ectopic thyroid tissue, with less than 10% of patients presenting with symptoms of hyperthyroidism. More often, patients present with abdominal pain and distention, a palpable abdominal mass, and abnormal vaginal bleeding, which this patient does not have. Furthermore, she has a goiter, which would not occur in association with struma ovarii.

**F - Factitious hyperthyroidism** - Exogenous intake of thyroid hormone, either intentional (e.g., Munchausen syndrome, desired weight loss) or unintentional (accidental ingestion), would explain both the symptoms of hyperthyroidism (mild tachycardia, sweating, resting tremor) and altered thyroid function tests (increased T3 and T4, low TSH) in this patient. However, it would not be consistent with this patient’s fever, elevated ESR, tender goiter, or diffusely decreased uptake of 123I, as the exogenous suppression of TSH would lead to general thyroid gland atrophy

**G - Toxic adenoma** - Toxic thyroid adenoma typically manifests with symptoms of hyperthyroidism (mild tachycardia, sweating, resting tremor) and laboratory studies showing elevated thyroid hormones and decreased TSH, as seen here. However, it would not account for this patient's fever or elevated ESR. Furthermore, a 123I scan would reveal significantly increased uptake in a solitary hot nodule with suppression of the remainder of the gland.

