### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Measure fasting blood glucose concentration** - Measurement of fasting blood glucose (FBG) concentration is routinely used to screen for diabetes mellitus. Although screening recommendations for diabetes mellitus differ among expert groups, this 41-year-old patient with dyslipidemia and a BMI of 29 kg/m2 meets the screening criteria of both the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) and the American Diabetes Association (ADA). The USPSTF recommends screening individuals 35–70 years of age with a BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2. The ADA recommends screening individuals with a BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2 who have at least one additional risk factor (e.g., physical inactivity, hypertension, dyslipidemia, a first-degree relative with diabetes) and individuals ≥ 45 years of age who have no risk factors. Besides FBG, other tests used to screen for diabetes mellitus include hemoglobin A1C (HbA1c) and the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). Each of the following findings can be used to establish a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus: FBG ≥ 126 mg/dL, HbA1c ≥ 6.5%, and a 2-hour plasma glucose ≥ 200 mg/dL during an OGTT.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Obtain Pap smear** - For cervical cancer screening in women 30–65 years of age, the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends Pap smears every 3 years with cervical cytology alone, every 5 years with human papillomavirus (HPV) testing alone, or every 5 years with HPV testing in combination with cytology (HPV/Pap cotesting). This 41-year-old patient had a normal Pap smear 2 years ago and, therefore, does not need further testing at this time.

**C - Perform abdominal ultrasonography** - For abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) screening, the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends ultrasonography once for men 65–75 years of age who have ever smoked. There is no specific recommendation for screening for women, even if they have a history of smoking or a family history of AAA.

**D - Obtain low-dose CT scan of the chest** - For lung cancer screening, the United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends low-dose CT scan of the chest annually for individuals 50–80 years of age who have a history of smoking for ≥ 20 pack-years and who currently smoke or stopped smoking within the past 15 years. This 41-year-old patient has smoked for 10 pack-years and, therefore, does not require screening at this time.

**E - Perform breast ultrasonography** - Breast ultrasonography is not the recommended screening method for breast cancer. Screening recommendations for breast cancer vary among professional societies. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) recommends mammography every 1–2 years for women > 40 years of age who have an average level of risk. The United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends mammography every 2 years for women 50–74 years of age who have an average level of risk; for women < 50 years of age, screening for breast cancer is not universally recommended. The decision to start earlier screening should be an individual one based on risk factors such as family history in a first-degree relative (i.e., parent, sibling, or child), which is associated with a twofold increase in risk.

**F - Administer pneumococcal vaccine** - For adults 19–64 years of age with certain medical conditions (e.g., immunodeficiency, chronic renal failure, asplenia), the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends the administration of the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) followed by the pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV23). The CDC also recommends PPSV23 alone for individuals who smoke and individuals who have alcohol use disorder, diabetes mellitus, or chronic heart, liver, or lung disease. Because this 41-year-old patient only has dyslipidemia and a remote history of smoking, she does not need the pneumococcal vaccine at this time.

