### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus** - A history of polydipsia, polyuria, and nocturia in combination with increased plasma osmolality and decreased urine osmolality after a water deprivation test is suggestive of diabetes insipidus (DI). This patient's lack of response to desmopressin (i.e., plasma osmolality remained high and urine osmolality remained low) indicates nephrogenic DI. Although the pathomechanism by which hypercalcemia causes nephrogenic DI is not entirely understood, changes in interstitial osmotic gradient, hypercalcemic tubulointerstitial injury, and downregulation of aquaporin-2 channels are thought to be involved. Correction of hypercalcemia usually reverses these changes. Medications such as lithium and demeclocycline can also cause this condition.

Image File: 457-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d07bcd169b4d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state** - Hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state (HHS) manifests with polyuria, polydipsia, nausea, signs of dehydration (e.g. dry mucous membranes), and increased plasma osmolality in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus, similar to what is seen here. However, plasma osmolality in HHS is usually > 320 mOsmol/kg due to a blood glucose level typically > 600 mg/dL, which is not seen here.

**C - Beer potomania** - Beer potomania is typically caused by an excessive intake of beer and a low dietary solute intake. This patient only drinks one beer per day, which is not enough to cause this condition. Moreover, in contrast with this patient's findings, beer potomania manifests with dilutional hyponatremia and low serum osmolality, and urine osmolality is typically below 100 mOsm/kg.

**D - Psychogenic polydipsia** - Psychogenic polydipsia (PP) manifests with polyuria and polydipsia, both of which are seen here. However, because of the dilutional effect of excessive water intake, patients with PP typically present with hyponatremia and low serum osmolality. Moreover, both the ADH secretion and the renal ADH receptors are intact in patients with PP, so plasma and urine osmolality values would be expected to be normal after a water deprivation test.

**E - Central diabetes insipidus** - Central diabetes insipidus (central DI) manifests with polyuria, nocturia, polydipsia, hypernatremia, and increased plasma osmolality and decreased urine osmolality after a water deprivation test. However, in contrast to what is seen here, urine osmolality increases after desmopressin administration in patients with central DI because renal ADH receptors are intact.

**F - Syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion** - Syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion (SIADH) can be induced by medications such as SSRIs (e.g., escitalopram), which this patient takes. However, in contrast with this patient's findings, SIADH manifests with increased urine osmolality, decreased plasma osmolality, and hyponatremia due to increased water reabsorption in the distal convoluted tubules and collecting ducts.

