### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Cerebral edema** - Cerebral edema occurs in up to 1% of patients with diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) and is typically seen in the first 12 hours after the initiation of treatment. The pathophysiology is not fully understood, and the complication also occurs in patients with optimal management. Since cerebral edema is associated with a high mortality rate, patients with DKA should be monitored for mental status changes and other signs of increased intracranial pressure.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Intrinsic kidney injury** - This patient likely has mild acute kidney injury (AKI) due to his severe dehydration. However, this type of AKI would be classified as prerenal rather than intrinsic. Intrinsic kidney injury due to diabetic nephropathy is a common long-term complication of diabetes mellitus. For this reason, this patient's kidney function should be monitored regularly. The condition would not occur within the first 24 hours of diabetic ketoacidosis.

**C - Cognitive impairment** - Patients with diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) are believed to be at increased risk for cognitive impairment, particularly memory dysfunction. However, the deficits develop slowly, and signs of cognitive impairment are usually not evident immediately following an episode of DKA. Moreover, cognitive impairment is more commonly seen in patients who have frequent episodes of severe hyperglycemia or hypoglycemia.

**D - Deep venous thrombosis** - Children with diabetic ketoacidosis appear to be at increased risk for deep venous thrombosis. However, thrombosis most commonly occurs in patients with a central venous line and would therefore be unlikely in this patient.

**E - Hyperkalemia** - Patients receiving insulin treatment are generally at risk for hypokalemia, not hyperkalemia, since insulin moves K+ back into depleted cells, which decreases serum K+ levels. DKA may initially present with normal or even elevated serum K+ levels due to a shift of K+ from the intracellular to the extracellular space during hyperglycemia. K+ levels should therefore be closely monitored, as they can decrease rapidly once insulin treatment is initiated.

