### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Insulinoma** - Insulinomas usually present with Whipple's triad (hypoglycemia symptoms, low serum glucose when symptomatic, relief when given glucose) and is often associated with significant weight gain as seen in this patient. Diagnostic findings include hypoglycemia with high insulin levels, and high C-peptide or proinsulin levels, which are also seen here. Treatment involves surgical excision of the tumor.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Polycystic ovarian syndrome** - Although polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) may also present with obesity, weight gain, and hyperinsulinemia, as seen in this patient, patients often have normal or high serum glucose levels due to reduced peripheral insulin sensitivity. Furthermore, PCOS often presents with symptoms of virilization due to increased androgen production from hyperinsulinemia. This patient's hypoglycemia, along with decreased serum glucose and increased C-peptide levels, make this diagnosis unlikely.

**C - Exogenous hypoglycemia** - Administration of exogenous medications such as insulin or sulfonylureas may cause symptoms of hypoglycemia like we see in this patient. Health care providers are at increased risk due to access to these medications. However, in the case of exogenous insulin administration, C-peptide levels would be low, and in the case of exogenous sulfonylurea administration, the urine sulfonylurea screen would be positive.

**D - Binge eating disorder** - Although binge eating disorders may present with obesity and hyperinsulinemia, especially in patients under stress such as this one, they rarely cause hypoglycemia, as the insulin release is proportional to high blood glucose levels. This patient's hypoglycemia, combined with the high C-peptide levels, makes another diagnosis more likely.

**E - Cushing's syndrome** - Cushing's syndrome may cause symptoms of weight gain, weakness, and anxiety, all of which are seen in this patient. Insulin and C-peptide levels may also be high, as excess cortisol causes insulin resistance. However, insulin resistance is usually associated with hyperglycemia rather than hypoglycemia. Furthermore, patients with Cushing's syndrome usually develop other symptoms, such as virilization in women, decreased libido, striae in the abdomen, easy bruising, and osteoporosis.

