### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 2** - Autoimmune polyendocrine syndromes are conditions characterized by multiple endocrine deficiencies. Autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type 2 (Schmidt syndrome) manifests with adrenal insufficiency and it is also associated with autoimmune thyroid disease (e.g., Hashimoto thyroiditis) and type 1 diabetes mellitus. Furthermore, antibodies against adrenal steroid enzymes, such as those directed against 17α-hydroxylase, are commonly found. Even though it is associated with multiple endocrine deficiencies, this condition does not typically cause hypoparathyroidism, which is consistent with this patient's normal PTH levels. Other disorders occasionally seen in patients with autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type 2 include alopecia areata, pernicious anemia, vitiligo, myasthenia gravis, and rheumatoid arthritis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1** - Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN 1) classically manifests with primary hyperparathyroidism resulting in increased PTH levels. This patient, however, has normal PTH levels. Moreover, MEN 1 is classically associated with endocrine pancreatic tumors and/or pituitary adenomas, none of which is described here.

**B - Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2B** - Multiple endocrine neoplasia 2B (MEN 2B) typically manifests with medullary thyroid carcinoma and it is further associated with pheochromocytoma, multiple neuromas, and marfanoid habitus, none of which is described here.

**C - Sheehan syndrome** - Postpartum hypopituitarism (Sheehan syndrome) usually occurs following postpartum hemorrhage. Sheehan syndrome can result in secondary adrenal insufficiency, which can manifest with hypotension, weight loss, and anorexia as seen in this patient. However, it is not associated with hyperpigmentation of the skin, which is classically seen in individuals with primary adrenal insufficiency. Moreover, this patient has no reported history of pregnancy.

**D - Congenital adrenal hyperplasia** - Variants of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) that are associated with impaired mineralocorticoid production (e.g., 21β-hydroxylase deficiency) can manifest with hypotension, vomiting, anorexia, and hyperpigmentation of the skin, similar to symptoms seen in this patient. However, these severe cases of CAH manifest within the first few weeks of life and are also associated with virilization and pseudohermaphroditism in female individuals, none of which is seen here.

**E - Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A** - Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (MEN 2A) is associated with primary hyperparathyroidism resulting in increased PTH levels. This patient, however, has normal PTH levels. Moreover, MEN 2A typically manifests with medullary thyroid carcinoma and it is further associated with pheochromocytoma, none of which is described here.

**G - Cushing syndrome** - Cushing syndrome (in the setting of secondary hypercortisolism) classically manifests with hyperpigmentation of the skin due to increased production of proopiomelanocortin. However, Cushing syndrome would cause insulin resistance, rather than type 1 diabetes. Moreover, it is associated with easily bruisable skin, muscle weakness, hirsutism, central obesity, and hypertension, none of which is described here.

