### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Hydrocortisone, liothyronine, and levothyroxine therapy** - Treatment with liothyronine and levothyroxine should be started immediately upon clinical suspicion of myxedema coma because this condition can be life-threatening (up to 50% mortality); patients should also be treated with glucocorticoids until a diagnosis of coexisting adrenal insufficiency is ruled out. This patient probably had a longstanding undiagnosed or untreated hypothyroidism, which increases the risk of developing myxedema coma. Moreover, her presumed history of injection drug use (healed needle track marks) is an additional precipitating factor for this condition. Other triggers include infections, stroke, acute coronary syndrome, trauma, and surgical procedures. In patients with suspected myxedema coma, blood samples for evaluation of TSH, T4, and cortisol levels should be drawn before initiating treatment. The treatment must then be initiated without waiting for the results.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Emergency hemodialysis** - Emergency hemodialysis is indicated in patients with lithium or methanol intoxication, severe metabolic acidosis (pH < 7.1), refractory hyperkalemia, hypercalcemia, or fluid overload, and in patients with signs of uremia. This patient does not present with any of these conditions, and myxedema coma is not itself an indication for emergency hemodialysis.

**C - Emergency pericardiocentesis** - Emergency pericardiocentesis is used in the treatment of hemodynamically unstable patients with cardiac tamponade, which manifests with hypotension and low-voltage QRS complexes on ECG, both of which are seen in this patient. However, although pericardial effusion may be present in patients with myxedema coma, cardiac tamponade is rare. Additionally, the absence of muffled heart sounds and jugular vein distention in this case make cardiac tamponade unlikely.

**D - Activated charcoal and sodium bicarbonate therapy** - Activated charcoal and IV sodium bicarbonate therapy are used in the treatment of tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) overdose, which can manifest with altered mental status, bradypnea, and hypotension, all of which are seen here. However, patients with TCA overdose present with hyperthermia (due to the anticholinergic effects of TCAs), tachycardia, and hyperreflexia, whereas this patient presents with hypothermia, bradycardia, and hyporeflexia. Moreover, TCA overdose does not manifest with nonpitting edema, and affected individuals usually have mydriasis, whereas this patient's pupils are normal in size. Finally, ECG findings in patients with TCA overdose include prolonged QRS complexes and QT intervals, none of which are seen here.

**E - Naloxone therapy** - Naloxone is used in the treatment of acute opioid intoxication, which can manifest with altered mental status, bradypnea, bradycardia, hypotension, hypothermia, and hypoglycemia, all of which are seen here. Furthermore, this patient's presumed history of injection drug use (healed needle track marks) puts her at increased risk for this condition. However, patients with an opioid overdose do not present with nonpitting edema and typically present with small, pinpoint pupils, whereas this patient's pupils are normal in size. Moreover, ECG findings of acute opioid intoxication include wide QRS complexes, increased QT interval, and ventricular arrhythmias; low-voltage QRS complexes or widespread T-wave inversions would not be expected.

**F - Measurement of D-dimer concentration** - D-dimer concentration is measured if pulmonary embolism (PE) is suspected but the pretest probability of PE is low (modified Wells score for PE ≤ 4). Although PE can manifest with altered mental status and hypoxemia, patients with PE typically present with tachycardia, tachypnea, chest pain, and respiratory alkalosis, none of which are seen in this patient. Moreover, the edema in patients with PE due to DVT (the most common cause of PE) is usually unilateral and pitting, whereas this patient presents with nonpitting bilateral edema in the lower extremities. This patient's presentation is consistent with a different life-threatening condition that requires immediate treatment before performing additional investigations.

**G - CT scan of the head** - Neuroimaging is performed as part of the diagnostic work-up of patients with an altered mental status to exclude structural causes if the diagnosis remains unclear after the initial assessment. This patient's presentation is consistent with a life-threatening metabolic condition that requires immediate treatment before performing additional investigations.

