### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Oral methimazole therapy** - Initial management of thyrotoxicosis due to GD consists of beta blockers (e.g., propranolol) for immediate control of symptoms (e.g., tachycardia) and antithyroid drugs (ATDs) such as methimazole for 4–8 weeks to establish euthyroidism prior to any further steps in treatment (e.g., surgery). Long-term euthyroid control in patients with GD complicated by moderate-to-severe GO can be achieved either with long-term ATDs or with surgery (near-total thyroidectomy). Radioactive iodine ablation is only a treatment option in patients with mild GO and is not recommended in moderate-to-severe cases because it can worsen orbitopathy. Management of ocular symptoms consists of symptomatic therapy, eye-protection methods (e.g., sunglasses, artificial tears), and immunosuppressive drugs (e.g., steroids) because GO is the result of an autoimmune reaction of the orbital tissue. Establishing euthyroidism is recommended in all patients with GO to prevent deterioration of orbitopathy. Furthermore, noncontrast CT scan (to avoid iodine uptake) or MRI should be performed in patients with moderate-to-severe GO to evaluate disease severity.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Thyroid lobectomy** - Thyroid lobectomy is the preferred treatment option for patients with hyperthyroidism due to localized autonomous thyroid nodules (e.g., toxic adenoma). GD affects the entire thyroid, as seen on this patient's thyroid scintigraphy, and lobectomy is not a treatment option in GD. Furthermore, this patient has acute thyrotoxicosis; thyroid surgery is not recommended at this point in treatment because manipulation of the thyroid could lead to thyroid storm.

**B - Near-total thyroidectomy** - Near-total thyroidectomy is a treatment option to establish long-term euthyroidism in patients with GD and in those with concomitant GO. This patient has acute thyrotoxicosis; thyroid surgery is not recommended at this point in treatment because manipulation of the thyroid could lead to thyroid storm.

**D - Radioactive iodine ablation** - Radioactive iodine ablation (RAIA) is a treatment option to establish long-term euthyroidism in patients with GD. However, RAIA is not recommended for patients with concomitant moderate-to-severe GO because it can worsen orbitopathy. Furthermore, this patient has acute thyrotoxicosis, which should be treated prior to any further steps in treatment.

**E - Tocilizumab therapy** - Tocilizumab therapy is a second-line treatment option for patients with moderate-to-severe GO. This drug may be used for patients whose ocular symptoms are refractory to high-dose glucocorticoids.

