### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Aripiprazole extended-release injections** - Long-acting injectable (LAI) antipsychotics such as aripiprazole extended-release injections are indicated for patients with schizophrenia who have frequent relapses due to treatment nonadherence, as seen here. This patient has shown a good response to oral aripiprazole previously, so continuing the same drug in an LAI form is recommended. The use of LAI antipsychotics is associated with improved treatment adherence due to a reduced need for daily medications. Because the treatment is administered in the hospital, this patient will also have more privacy about her treatment than with oral aripiprazole.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral clozapine** - Clozapine, a second generation antipsychotic, is used in the management of patients with treatment-resistant schizophrenia, particularly those with persistent suicidality. This patient's symptoms are due to nonadherence rather than refractory schizophrenia, so another pharmacotherapy is more appropriate.

**C - Oral olanzapine** - Olanzapine, a second-generation antipsychotic, can be used as a first-line treatment for schizophrenia. However, this patient has previously shown a good response to a different first-line antipsychotic treatment, so a change of medication is not warranted. Moreover, initiation of a different oral therapy will not improve this patient's adherence to treatment.

**D - Oral lorazepam** - Lorazepam, a benzodiazepine, can be used in the management of extrapyramidal symptoms (e.g., dystonia, akathisia) associated with antipsychotic use. However, this patient has no such manifestations, so lorazepam is not appropriate at this point.

**E - Haloperidol extended-release injections** - Haloperidol extended-release injections can be used to manage patients with schizophrenia who are not adherent to treatment, as in this case. However, this patient has shown a good response to a first-line antipsychotic treatment, so it is not recommended that she change her medication. Moreover, haloperidol is associated with numerous side effects (e.g., extrapyramidal symptoms, tardive dyskinesia, anticholinergic effects), so it is a less suitable choice at this point.

**F - Intramuscular benztropine** - Benztropine is used in the management of extrapyramidal symptoms (e.g., dystonia, akathisia) associated with antipsychotic use, and intramuscular administration is preferred in the acute setting. This patient has none of these symptoms, so benztropine is not appropriate at this point.

