### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - T-wave flattening on ECG** - T-wave flattening on ECG is a sign of hypokalemia, which is a common finding in patients with Cushing syndrome. In these patients, excess cortisol binds to mineralocorticoid receptors, causing increased retention of water and sodium, as well as increased excretion of potassium and H+. These mechanisms lead to hypernatremia and hypertension as well as hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Nuchal muscle hypertrophy** - In patients with Cushing syndrome, relocation of body fat from the body periphery to the body center leads to central obesity and dorsocervical (buffalo hump) and supraclavicular fat deposits (not muscle hypertrophy). Moreover, patients with Cushing syndrome typically present with muscle atrophy and weakness due to the catabolic effects of cortisol on protein metabolism.

**B - Homonymous hemianopia** - About 75% of cases of endogenous Cushing syndrome are caused by pituitary adenomas, which can cause visual field defects by compressing the visual pathways. However, patients with large pituitary adenomas (i.e., macroadenoma) typically present with bitemporal hemianopia (not homonymous hemianopia) due to compression of the optic chiasm. Moreover, most pituitary adenomas that produce ACTH are microadenomas (< 10 mm in diameter) and therefore too small to cause visual field defects.

**C - Low serum glucose concentration** - In patients with Cushing syndrome, hypercortisolism leads to insulin resistance, which causes hyperglycemia rather than hypoglycemia.

**D - Decreased blood leukocyte count** - Cortisol has both anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effects. In patients with Cushing syndrome, hypercortisolism promotes apoptosis in monocytes, lymphocytes, and eosinophils, causing an absolute decrease in the number of these types of leukocytes. However, excess cortisol levels also inhibit neutrophil apoptosis and neutrophil migration out of the endothelial lining of vessels, which leads to neutrophilic leukocytosis and a blood leukocyte count that is overall increased.

**F - Positive Chvostek sign** - A positive Chvostek sign is a sign of hypocalcemia. In patients with Cushing syndrome, excess cortisol inhibits calcitriol synthesis. Decreased calcitriol levels cause impaired intestinal calcium absorption and increased renal calcium secretion. However, most patients with Cushing syndrome are normocalcemic because of a compensatory increase in PTH secretion, which stimulates calcium release from the bone.

**G - Low serum bicarbonate concentration** - Low serum bicarbonate levels are seen in disorders that are associated with metabolic acidosis (e.g., Addison disease). The effect of excess cortisol on mineralocorticoids causes increased excretion of potassium and H+, resulting in alkalosis rather than acidosis. Alkalosis presents with an elevated, not decreased, serum bicarbonate concentration.

