### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Elevated serum VIP concentration** - In patients with VIPoma, excessive release of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) increases relaxation of gastric and intestinal smooth muscles and causes unregulated fluid and electrolyte secretion, leading to secretory tea-colored diarrhea, along with the resulting dehydration and hypokalemia. VIP also inhibits gastric acid secretion, increases bone resorption, and stimulates gluconeogenesis, leading to achlorhydria / hypochlorhydria, hypercalcemia, and hyperglycemia, respectively. The cutaneous flushing seen in this patient is a result of VIP-induced vasodilation; this finding is seen in approx. 20% of patients with VIPoma.

The main diagnostic finding is elevated serum VIP concentration (> 75 pg/mL). The primary tumor is most frequently found in the pancreas and can be localized with an abdominal CT scan.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Anti-tissue transglutaminase antibodies** - Anti-tissue transglutaminase antibodies are found in celiac disease. While this patient did initially have chronic episodic diarrhea, celiac disease more often presents with steatorrhea due to malabsorption rather than watery diarrhea. Other symptoms of malabsorption typically seen in celiac disease include fatigue, weight loss, vitamin deficiency, iron deficiency anemia, osteoporosis, and hypocalcemia, none of which are seen in this patient.

**B - Excessive accumulation of mast cells** - Systemic mastocytosis could cause significant diarrhea, abdominal pain, nausea, and cutaneous flushing. The excessive accumulation of mast cells seen in this disease can localize to specific organs, like the intestine, where synchronous activation leads to an excessive release of mast cell mediators, such as histamine, prostaglandins, proteases, and various cytokines. The skin is often involved and patients typically report pruritus and urticaria. However, this rare disease would not cause the laboratory abnormalities or achlorhydria / hypochlorhydria seen in this patient and is therefore an unlikely cause of his symptoms.

**C - Functional gastrointestinal disorder** - Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) typically presents with altered bowel habits (such as diarrhea) and abdominal pain, both of which are seen in this patient. However, in IBS, abdominal pain is typically relieved by defecation. IBS can also present with constipation (bowel habits may vacillate between diarrhea and constipation). Physical examination, laboratory results, and imaging are all normal in IBS, making it an unlikely diagnosis in this patient.

**E - Increased conversion of 5-hydroxytryptophan to serotonin** - Carcinoid syndrome due to a serotonin-producing carcinoid tumor can also present with diarrhea, tachycardia, and flushing, making it an important differential diagnosis. However, this patient lacks the asthma-like attacks (dyspnea and wheezing) and valvular lesions (e.g., tricuspid regurgitation) that are often seen in carcinoid syndrome. Additionally, carcinoid syndrome would not explain this patient's abnormal laboratory values or his achlorhydria / hypochlorhydria.

**F - Infection with Vibrio cholerae** - Vibrio cholerae could explain this patient's watery diarrhea, and he did recently travel to an endemic country. However, patients infected with Vibrio cholerae typically have vomiting, and a recent infection would not explain his previous history of chronic diarrhea and flushing, nor his decreased gastric acid output.

**G - Transmural inflammation of the intestinal walls** - Transmural inflammation of the intestinal wall is characteristic of Crohn disease (CD). This patient is a smoker, which is a known risk factor for CD. He also presents with diffuse abdominal pain, but the abdominal pain that is seen in CD typically appears in the RLQ due to terminal ileitis. Furthermore, CD usually presents with signs of malabsorption such as weight loss and anemia. Extraintestinal symptoms like erythema nodosum, pyoderma gangrenosum, and/or uveitis may also be present. More importantly, Crohn disease would not explain this patient's laboratory abnormalities, cutaneous flushing, or his achlorhydria.

