### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Refer to surgery for parathyroidectomy** - The majority of primary hyperparathyroidism cases are caused by abnormal growth of the parathyroid gland. Adenomas (80–85%), hyperplasia (5%), and carcinomas (2%) are the most common causes of primary hyperparathyroidism and require surgical resection for definitive treatment. Surgery is indicated for patients with any of the following: age under 50; evidence of skeletal compromise (e.g., DEXA T-score < -2.5, vertebral fracture on radiograph); evidence of renal compromise (e.g., estimated GFR < 60 mL/min, > 400 mg/day 24-hour urine calcium excretion, presence of nephrolithiasis); serum calcium level > 1 mg/dL higher than the upper limit of normal serum calcium level or symptoms of hypercalcemia. This patient meets the criteria for surgery based on her age, nephrolithiasis, and elevated serum calcium.

Image File: 473-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5adf5fb6f1a12.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Begin cinacalcet therapy** - Cinacalcet is a calcimimetic that acts as an agonist for the calcium-sensing receptor of the parathyroid gland. This acts to lower the release of PTH thereby reducing serum calcium and phosphate. Although cinacalcet is very effective in reducing calcium and phosphate levels, many patients experience side effects, such as nausea, arthralgias, and paresthesias. Because cinacalcet is not a definitive treatment, it is usually reserved for patients who are not candidates for the preferred therapy.

**C - Recommend low-calcium diet** - A low-calcium diet would exacerbate this patient's condition by increasing PTH production (because of the lower serum calcium). This increased production would result in bone breakdown and eventually osteopenia, which would increase this patient's risk of fractures. Individuals with primary hyperparathyroidism should maintain moderate calcium intake (1000 mg/day).

**D - Order serum protein electrophoresis** - Serum protein electrophoresis can detect the elevated production of monoclonal antibodies that would occur in a patient with multiple myeloma. Although the bone destruction in multiple myeloma causes hypercalcemia, the parathyroid's physical response would be a decrease in PTH rather than an increase.

**E - Order CT scan of the chest and abdomen** - Paraneoplastic syndromes (e.g., PTHrP release, ectopic vitamin D production) can cause hypercalcemia and should be considered in adult patients with no obvious etiology for their hypercalcemia. CT scans of the chest and abdomen are helpful in screening for malignancies associated with these syndromes, such as squamous cell lung cancer (PTHrP), lymphoma (ectopic 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D production), or any malignancy that has spread to the bone (malignant osteolysis). Individuals with malignancy-associated hypercalcemia would have very low PTH in response to hypercalcemia, unlike this patient.

**F - Begin hydrochlorothiazide therapy** - Hydrochlorothiazide can be used to treat calcium-based stones by decreasing urinary calcium concentration. Although hydrochlorothiazide therapy can address this patient's nephrolithiasis, increased renal resorption of calcium would worsen her hypercalcemia.

**G - Perform percutaneous nephrolithotomy** - Percutaneous nephrolithotomy is a minimally invasive urological procedure for removing large renal calculi. The first step in this patient's management should address her primary hyperparathyroidism, which is the underlying cause of her calculi. In addition, minimally symptomatic patients with small calculi (≤ 20 mm) are generally treated with medical therapy alone or, depending on the location of the calculi, with either ESWL or ureterorenoscopy.

