### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Exogenous hyperthyroidism** - Over-the-counter weight-loss supplements and herbal products are commonly contaminated with thyroid hormone in amounts high enough to cause thyrotoxicosis, as seen in this patient. Other groups at high risk for factitious hyperthyroidism are medical personnel who have access to L-thyroxine and use it to lose weight, receive insurance compensation (malingering), or gain attention (Munchausen syndrome/factitious disorder). A distinguishing feature of patients with exogenous hyperthyroidism is the absence of goiter. Low or undetectable thyroglobulin levels indicate that exogenous thyroid hormones have caused the thyroid gland to stop producing endogenous hormones and thus confirm the diagnosis.

Image File: 476-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ce671eb7b063.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Coffee consumption** - Excessive consumption of stimulants such as caffeine can cause restlessness, sleep disturbances, tachycardia, hyperreflexia, resting tremor, and palpitations similar to this patient's case. However, her daily routine of drinking of 2–3 cups of coffee is generally regarded as safe for regular consumption. Furthermore, her regular coffee consumption has been a longstanding habit and she is now likely to be well-tolerant to this level of caffeine intake. Therefore, this is unlikely to be the cause of her rather recent onset of symptoms.

**B - Pheochromocytoma** - Pheochromocytoma can also present with episodic or persistent hypertension, palpitations, and tachycardia as well as weight loss and diaphoresis (sweating) due to the massive release of catecholamines into systemic circulation. If examined during such an episode, patients could also exhibit resting tremor and hyperreflexia. However, pheochromocytomas commonly cause throbbing headaches, nausea, pallor, and abdominal pain, none of which this patient has. Most importantly, patient's symptoms would generally have an episodic nature, which was not reported here.

**C - Acute stress disorder** - Acute stress disorder is a trauma- and stressor-related disorder. To establish this diagnosis, a patient must meet a wide range of criteria that include arousal symptoms such as the sleep disturbance and irritability seen here, but also and more importantly a history of trauma as well as symptoms of intrusion, negative mood, dissociation, and avoidance. Furthermore, this patient's neurological findings of hyperreflexia and resting tremor suggest a different diagnosis.

**D - Hashimoto thyroiditis** - Hashimoto thyroiditis is an autoimmune disease in which autoantibodies against the thyroid gland lead to the gradual destruction of thyroid tissue. While hyperthyroidism can occasionally be present in acute phases of Hashimoto thyroiditis (Hashitoxicosis), the disease is typically asymptomatic in its early stages and only presents with hypothyroidism in later stages.

**E - Graves disease** - Graves disease is an autoimmune disorder that causes hyperthyroidism and is characterized by the presence of stimulating TSH receptor autoantibodies. However, unlike this patient, individuals with Graves disease typically present with diffuse goiter, Graves ophthalmopathy, and pretibial myxedema.

Image File: 476-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_61276bd9bc2d7.jpg

**G - Generalized anxiety disorder** - While patients with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) may present with irritability, restlessness, and sleep disturbance, patients typically do not show neurological findings such as the increased reflexes seen in this case. Furthermore, GAD is characterized by prolonged and excessive anxiety that is either unspecific or revolves around certain themes (e.g., health, work).

