### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Administer intravenous dextrose** - In a patient with suspected hypoglycemia who is unconscious and actively seizing, the most appropriate next step in management is to administer glucose intravenously. In addition, regular serum glucose monitoring should be conducted during administration. Alternatively, if this patient were conscious and tolerating PO intake, oral glucose or fast-acting carbohydrates such as fruit juice or candy could be given. If both oral and IV routes are unavailable, intramuscular or subcutaneous glucagon should be administered.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Obtain a 12-lead ECG** - A 12-lead ECG is an important diagnostic tool in the assessment of chest pain and suspected acute coronary syndrome, as it may show ST-segment elevation/depression, T-wave inversions, or pathological Q waves in the event of a myocardial infarction. However, ACS classically presents with retrosternal chest pain that radiates to the left shoulder, arm, or jaw and is not reproducible on palpation. In some cases, diabetic patients with ACS may present with atypical symptoms (such as dyspnea, diaphoresis, and nausea/vomiting) and with little or no chest pain due to reduced pain sensation from diabetic polyneuropathy. While this patient has palpitations and diaphoresis, his history and onset of seizure suggest that another diagnosis is more likely.

**C - Administer intravenous phenoxybenzamine** - Phenoxybenzamine would be the best initial therapy for a patient with pheochromocytoma to control blood pressure via alpha blockade. While symptoms of pheochromocytoma include sweating, tachycardia, palpitations, and tremor, the absence of persistently elevated blood pressure and no history of severe hypertension make pheochromocytoma an unlikely diagnosis in this case. Additionally, pheochromocytoma is not a common cause of seizure and would not explain the low blood glucose concentration.

**D - Administer intravenous lorazepam** - Intravenous lorazepam is the best initial therapy for a patient in status epilepticus. Status epilepticus is defined by ≥ 5 min of continuous seizures or ≥ 2 seizures with consciousness not being fully regained in the interictal period. While this patient's loss of consciousness and shaking is consistent with the onset of an acute seizure, his seizure has just begun and does not meet the criteria for status epilepticus. The most appropriate next step in management in this case is to address the underlying cause of the secondary seizure.

**E - Obtain an arterial blood gas analysis** - Measurement of blood pH via arterial blood gas analysis would be an appropriate step in the workup of suspected lactic acidosis caused by the accumulation of metformin in patients with renal dysfunction. Although metformin-associated lactic acidosis may present with nausea, hyperventilation (Kussmaul respirations), and loss of consciousness, lactic acidosis is a rare side effect of metformin, and this patient has no contraindications for use of metformin such as chronic kidney disease, recent IV contrast use, liver failure, or heart failure.

**F - Administer intramuscular glucagon** - Intramuscular or subcutaneous glucagon would be the most appropriate next step in the management of a patient with severe hypoglycemia who is unconscious (not tolerating oral delivery of fast-acting carbohydrates) in a non-hospital setting, where intravenous access is not readily available. While glucagon would address the patient's hypoglycemia, there is a more effective and rapidly acting treatment available in the hospital setting.

**G - Obtain an EEG** - An EEG is an important diagnostic test if there is an underlying seizure disorder that might suggest epilepsy. While this patient's loss of consciousness and shaking is consistent with the onset of an acute seizure, this patient does not have a history of seizure disorder. The most appropriate next step in management in this case is to address the underlying cause of the secondary seizure.

