### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Infection with acid-fast bacilli** - The findings of fever, weight loss, and long-standing cough in an immigrant from the Philippines should raise suspicion of tuberculosis (TB) caused by Mycobacteria tuberculosis, which appears as acid-fast bacilli on Gram staining. TB can potentially affect any organ, including the adrenals, where it may result in chronic adrenocortical insufficiency, presenting as bilateral adrenal enlargement. This patients's presentation with fatigue, hypotension, loss of pubic hair, hyperkalemia, low cortisol, and elevated ACTH suggests primary adrenocortical insufficiency, in this case most likely caused by TB.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Adrenal infarction** - Causes of adrenal infarction include coagulopathies such as antiphospholipid syndrome. While this patient's family history of SLE increases the risk of coagulopathies, patients with adrenal infarction typically present with a more acute clinical course. This patient's symptoms of long-standing cough, fever, and weight loss make another mechanism more likely.

**B - Adrenal hemorrhage** - Adrenal hemorrhage may be caused by anticoagulation therapy or Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome, which may be seen in Neisseria meningitis septicemia. This patient is currently not on any anticoagulative medications and—besides the lethargy and hypotension—there is little evidence to suggest acute meningococcal sepsis, which might consist of altered mental status, shock, or coagulopathy-induced purpura and ecchymoses.

**C - Pituitary tumor** - A pituitary gland tumor may cause adrenal insufficiency if ACTH production is impaired (secondary adrenal insufficiency). The presentation with fatigue, hypotension, and low cortisol would be similar, but ACTH would be low rather than elevated. Furthermore, potassium would be in the normal range because ACTH is only a minor regulator of aldosterone production.

**E - Amyloid deposition** - Amyloidosis may affect any organ, including the adrenals. Although amyloid infiltration of the adrenal glands may cause bilateral adrenal enlargement, the progression of the disease would assume more of a chronic course than 2 months. Furthermore, there is no evidence of plasma cell disorders, chronic inflammation, chronic kidney disease, or a family history of amyloidosis in this patient, which might suggest amyloidosis.

**F - Autoimmune adrenalitis** - Autoimmune adrenalitis is the most common cause of primary adrenocortical insufficiency. It commonly occurs in association with other autoimmune diseases as part of a polyglandular autoimmune syndrome, e.g., together with type 1 diabetes mellitus. Although this patient's fatigue, hypotension, low cortisol, and elevated ACTH are signs of adrenocortical insufficiency, the simultaneous presence of cough, fevers, and weight loss, as well as history of immigration, make a different underlying pathomechanism more likely.

