### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Provide reassurance and schedule follow-up** - In many patients, both nausea and the lithium-induced postural tremor decrease over time; most cases are therefore managed conservatively with reassurance, avoidance of exacerbating factors (e.g., caffeine, stress), and follow-up. If the tremor persists, a reduction in the total daily dose of lithium (if serum lithium concentration is close to the upper limit of the therapeutic range), the use of short-acting lithium preparations, and/or divided doses (to reduce peak serum lithium concentrations) can be considered. If the tremor is severe or refractory to expectant management and dosage adjustment, beta blockers (e.g., propranolol), which are also used to treat other forms of postural tremors (e.g., essential tremor, physiologic tremor), can be used. If the tremor is progressive, coarse, irregular, affects parts of the body besides the upper limbs, and/or accompanies other symptoms (e.g., delirium, diarrhea, vomiting), lithium intoxication must be ruled out. Nausea can be reduced by advising the patient to take lithium during or immediately after meals, use of a sustained-release preparation of lithium, and/or divided doses.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Decrease the total daily dose of lithium** - If serum lithium concentration is in the standard (0.60–0.80 mEq/L) or high (0.80–1.00 mEq/L) therapeutic range, decreasing the total daily lithium dose to the minimum effective dose is an appropriate strategy to decrease side effects. In this patient, however, the serum lithium concentration is in the low therapeutic range (0.40–0.60 mEq/L); a further decrease in the total daily lithium dose would impair therapeutic efficacy. Additionally, mild nausea and a postural tremor are side effects that can be managed by other means.

**B - Begin hemodialysis** - Hemodialysis is indicated for the treatment of lithium intoxication if the patient has an altered mental status, seizures, severe arrhythmias, and/or a serum lithium concentration > 5.0 mEq/L (> 4.0 mEq/L if the patient has concomitant renal insufficiency). While lithium toxicity usually occurs with serum lithium concentrations > 1.5 mEq/L, this patient's serum lithium concentration is within the reference range. Additionally, lithium intoxication manifests with a coarse, irregular tremor rather than a postural fine tremor, and gastrointestinal manifestations of lithium toxicity are usually more severe and include vomiting and diarrhea rather than mild nausea.

**C - Replace lithium with valproic acid** - Valproic acid, a mood stabilizer, can be used for maintenance therapy in bipolar disorder if the side effects of lithium cannot be tolerated by the patient even at the lowest possible dose. However, mild nausea and the lithium-induced postural tremor, as seen here, are not indications for switching from lithium to another mood stabilizer; these particular adverse effects of lithium therapy can be controlled by other means. In bipolar disorder, the mood stabilizer that successfully treated a patient's manic episode (in this case, lithium) should be continued as maintenance therapy unless otherwise indicated.

**E - Begin propranolol therapy** - Beta blockers such as propranolol are only indicated for the management of a lithium-induced postural tremor if the tremor is severe (i.e., causes functional or social impairment for the patient) or is refractory to other steps. Beta blockers have been reported to decrease renal lithium clearance and are therefore not used as first-line therapy for lithium-induced postural tremors. A different step is more appropriate for the initial management of this patient.

