### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Neuroblastoma** - Neuroblastoma is a malignant neuroendocrine tumor that can present initially as abdominal distention and constipation with a palpable, irregular mass that crosses the midline. It can also cause hypertension and fever, as seen here. Opsoclonus-myoclonus syndrome explains the patient's twitching feet and erratic eye movements. Although neuroblastomas can originate from any aggregation of sympathetic nervous tissue, > 60% arise in the abdomen, as seen in this patient. The characteristic diagnostic finding is elevated urine catecholamine metabolites (homovanillic and vanillylmandelic acid).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hodgkin lymphoma** - Hodgkin lymphoma typically presents as cervical lymphadenopathy or a mediastinal mass in young adults or in the elderly (bimodal age distribution). While it often causes fevers, other B symptoms such as night sweats or weight loss are absent in this patient. Also, a diagnosis of Hodgkin lymphoma would not explain this patient's abdominal mass, elevated urine catecholamine metabolites, or abnormal eye and foot movement.

**B - Pheochromocytoma** - Pheochromocytoma is a tumor that usually arises on the adrenal medulla. It can lead to episodic hypertension, headaches, and diaphoresis secondary to catecholamine release. The suprarenal mass is sometimes palpable and causes increased levels of urine catecholamine metabolites, both of which are seen here. However, pheochromocytomas generally do not occur in children unless there is a family history (e.g., multiple endocrine neoplasia), which makes this tumor unlikely.

**C - Acute lymphoblastic leukemia** - Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common childhood cancer and usually presents with fatigue, easy bruising, and unexplained weight loss, none of which are seen in this patient. While it can also cause fevers, ALL would not explain this patient's abdominal mass, elevated urine catecholamine metabolites, or abnormal eye and foot movement, making it an unlikely cause of her symptoms.

**D - Hepatoblastoma** - Hepatoblastoma is a rare childhood tumor that may also present as a large, irregular abdominal mass in a young child. However, hepatoblastoma would not explain this child's abnormal eye and foot movements, and it would not cause an elevation in urine catecholamine metabolites.

**E - Nephroblastoma** - Nephroblastoma (i.e., Wilms' tumor) is a childhood tumor that may also present with hypertension, abdominal distention, and a large abdominal mass. However, in contrast to this patient's abdominal mass, nephroblastomas do not cross midline and tend to be smooth (rather than irregular). Additionally, nephroblastoma would not explain the elevated catecholamine metabolite levels seen here, nor would it cause abnormal eye and foot movements.

**G - Rhabdomyosarcoma** - Rhabdomyosarcoma is a rare tumor that most often arises in the head and neck region, though it can occasionally arise in the genitourinary tract (25% of cases). A very large bladder tumor may explain the abdominal mass and constipation seen in this patient. However, most rhabdomyosarcomas are not palpable and would not cause elevations in urine catecholamine metabolites.

**H - Mesoblastic nephroma** - Mesoblastic nephroma is a rare congenital tumor that can also present as an abdominal mass. About 90% of these tumors are found within the first year of life, making it an unlikely finding in a 2-year-old. Additionally, a mesoblastic nephroma would not lead to elevated urine catecholamine metabolites, nor would it explain this child's abnormal eye and foot movements.

