### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Hydrochlorothiazide therapy** - In addition to a low-salt and low-protein diet, hydrochlorothiazide treats nephrogenic diabetes insipidus by paradoxically reducing the volume of urine produced. In this case, hydrochlorothiazide leads to an increased sodium and water reabsorption in the proximal tubules. As a result, less water reaches the ADH sensitive distal tubules and volume of urine decreases.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Metformin therapy** - Metformin is a first-line medication used to treat diabetes mellitus. This patient's polydipsia, polyuria, and fatigue are similar to what might be seen in a patient being newly diagnosed with diabetes mellitus. However, her normal blood glucose, hypernatremia, and response to the initial tests point to nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, which is not treated with metformin.

**B - Further water restriction** - Water restriction is a technique used to treat psychogenic polydipsia, in which the patient would have mild hyponatremia and low serum osmolarity. This patient has neither of those, and has already been through 3 hours of water deprivation without any change in her urine osmolarity, demonstrating that this is not an effective treatment for her.

**C - Amiloride therapy** - Amiloride is an epithelial sodium channel blocker that is used as a diuretic and for the treatment of lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI). However this patient is taking valproic acid as a mood stabilizer, which does not lead to NDI. In some other cases of NDI, potassium-sparing diuretics may be considered but only in addition to first-line therapy and not as a monotherapy.

**D - Chlorpropamide therapy** - Chlorpropamide is a sulfonylurea commonly used to treat central diabetes insipidus because of its additional effect of increasing ADH secretion and strengthening the effect of ADH on the kidney. This medication would have no effect on this patient's nephrogenic diabetes insipidus and could cause dangerous hypoglycemia.

**E - Discontinue valproic acid** - Valproic acid can cause different side effects such as hepatotoxicity. It is well tolerated by the kidney and does not cause diabetes insipidus; so stopping it would not solve the problem.

**F - Begin infusion of 3% saline** - Small amounts of 3% saline help to appropriately raise the sodium level in patients with severe hyponatremia as might be seen in beer potomania. But this patient has hypernatremia and her history does not suggest beer potomania.

**H - Desmopressin therapy** - Desmopressin therapy is an effective treatment for central diabetes insipidus, but this patient is suffering from the nephrogenic form of the disease. This patient's kidneys are unable to respond to desmopressin, as has already been evidenced in the patient's workup.

