### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Hypercalcemic crisis** - This patient with metastatic thyroid cancer most likely developed lytic bone lesions with consequent hypercalcemia of malignancy. Patients with mild to moderate hypercalcemia are typically asymptomatic or develop symptoms such as constipation, fatigue, and polyuria. Severe hypercalcemia (hypercalcemic crisis), which is seen here, is a life-threatening condition that manifests with oliguria/anuria, dehydration, gastrointestinal symptoms, and an altered level of consciousness. The treatment for severe hypercalcemia includes immediate administration of normal saline to replenish volume loss and dilute serum calcium, as well as pharmacotherapy with calcitonin, bisphosphonates, or denosumab to inhibit bone resorption and calcium release. Hemodialysis can be considered in patients who do not respond to therapy or who cannot tolerate large amounts of intravenous saline because of the increased risk of fluid overload (e.g., due to acute kidney injury or heart failure).

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hemorrhage from brain metastasis** - Hemorrhage from brain metastasis can manifest with an altered mental status, nausea, and vomiting. However, other characteristic features of intracranial hemorrhage, such as focal neurologic deficits (e.g., hemiparesis), seizures, and/or headaches, are not seen here. In addition, this patient's abdominal pain, dehydration, and oliguria are inconsistent with intracranial hemorrhage and suggest a different diagnosis.

**C - Hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state** - A hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state (HHS) can manifest with an altered mental status, nausea, vomiting, and dehydration in a patient with type 2 diabetes mellitus who is not fully adherent to their antidiabetic medication. However, HHS is characterized by increased, rather than decreased, urine output due to glycosuria and osmotic diuresis.

**D - Cytotoxic effect of chemotherapy** - The cytotoxic effects of chemotherapy may lead to tumor lysis syndrome (TLS), which can manifest with lethargy, nausea, vomiting, and oliguria. However, TLS most commonly occurs after the initiation of chemotherapy in patients with advanced hematologic malignancies, which is not the case here. In addition, this patient does not have any other characteristic findings of TLS, such as cardiac arrhythmias, tetany, muscle cramps, and seizures.

**E - Sepsis** - Sepsis can manifest with tachypnea, signs of organ dysfunction (e.g., altered mental status, oliguria), and features of the primary infection (e.g., nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain due to appendicitis; decreased breath sounds due to pneumonia). Although this patient's history of terminal cancer and diabetes mellitus increases his risk of developing sepsis, he lacks features of systemic infection, such as fever, tachypnea, or hypotension.

