### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - F** - These findings are consistent with Addison disease. Lack of aldosterone leads to diminished renal sodium and water absorption, causing hypovolemia and hyponatremia. Renal excretion of potassium and protons is also impaired, resulting in hyperkalemia and mild hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis (decreased bicarbonate). Hypocortisolism directly causes nausea, weight loss, and hypotension, as in this patient, and triggers ADH release, which contributes to hyponatremia. Finally, loss of the gluconeogenic effect of cortisol causes hypoglycemia.

The most common cause of Addison disease is autoimmune adrenalitis. There is an increased prevalence of other autoimmune conditions in patients with Addison disease, including vitiligo, as seen here. Primary adrenal insufficiency is also a common manifestation in patients with polyglandular autoimmune syndromes.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - These findings would be seen in secondary adrenal insufficiency, not primary adrenal insufficiency. In this condition, decreased production of ACTH in the pituitary gland leads to hypocortisolism and hypoandrogenism. Consequently, hypoglycemia due to a decrease in gluconeogenesis (normally promoted by cortisol) would be seen, as well as hyponatremia due to an increase in ADH and free water retention. However, since aldosterone secretion is primarily controlled by the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, secondary adrenal insufficiency is not associated with hypoaldosteronism, which is why potassium and bicarbonate levels remain normal. Moreover, although this patient shows signs of hypocortisolism, he lacks risk factors for secondary adrenal insufficiency like prolonged steroid use. Finally, hyperpigmentation is a sign of an excess of ACTH, not a deficiency.

**B - B** - These values are consistent with Cushing syndrome, not primary adrenal insufficiency. In this condition, the weak mineralocorticoid effects of excess cortisol lead to sodium and water retention as well as increased potassium excretion, causing metabolic alkalosis. Moreover, the glucocorticoid effects cause central obesity, thin skin, weight gain, insulin resistance, and hyperglycemia. This patient does not have Cushingoid features and presents with findings that are directly opposed to what would be expected in Cushing syndrome, i.e., weight loss, hypotension, low serum cortisol concentration.

**C - C** - These values are consistent with primary hyperaldosteronism, not primary adrenal insufficiency. In this condition, excessive production of aldosterone leads to sodium and water retention. Increased sodium reabsorption, in turn, leads to hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis. Even though primary hyperaldosteronism manifests with fatigue, which is seen in this patient, it is typically associated with drug-resistant hypertension, not hypotension. Moreover, it is not associated with hyperpigmentation or a negative cosyntropin test.

**D - D** - These values are consistent with diabetic ketoacidosis, not primary adrenal insufficiency. In this condition, insulin deficiency causes a hyperglycemic crisis, which leads to hyperosmolarity and production of ketone bodies. The hyperosmolar state causes potassium to be shifted out of cells along with water as a compensatory mechanism, resulting in hyperkalemia (although total body potassium is depleted). An increase in ketone bodies leads to an excess of acidic compounds (which is then buffered by bicarbonate), causing an overall metabolic acidosis with an anion gap. Although this patient is at risk for autoimmune disease due to his vitiligo, he does not have a history of diabetes or typical symptoms of DKA like polyuria, polydipsia, vomiting, or volume depletion. Furthermore, DKA is not associated with hyperpigmentation or a negative cosyntropin test.

**E - E** - These values are consistent with excessive use of potassium-wasting diuretics like thiazides, not with primary adrenal insufficiency. Enhanced excretion of sodium and chloride, as well as loss of potassium due to increased activity of the Na+-K+ cotransporter, leads to hyponatremia, hypokalemia, and metabolic alkalosis, with normal glucose levels. This patient has no history of diuretic use. Moreover, diuretic use would not explain the negative cosyntropin test, nor the hyperpigmentation of the buccal mucosa.

