### ** Correct Answer: **

**I - Antihistamine** - This patient's presentation is characteristic of antihistamine toxicity. The CNS effects of confusion and drowsiness are mediated by the H1 histamine receptors. Dry skin, dry mucous membranes, mydriasis, tachycardia, and constipation are due to anticholinergic effects.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Phencyclidine** - Phencyclidine intoxication is characterized by violent and/or psychotic behavior but can in some cases also present with CNS depression and sedation. Additional clinical features of toxicity include increased pain tolerance, ataxia, dysarthria, nausea and vomiting. Nystagmus is also a common symptom, which is not seen in this patient.

**B - Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor** - Serotonin syndrome refers to SSRI intoxication, and is characterized by fever, diaphoresis, hypertension, tachycardia, nausea, diarrhea, and mydriasis. Although it can also cause delirium and confusion, this patient's dry skin and constipation suggest an alternative diagnosis.

**C - Cannabis** - Cannabis intoxication can present with hyperemesis, dysphoria, anxiety, and panic. Physical examination findings include conjunctival injection, mild tachycardia, increased blood pressure, and dry mouth. This patient's constellation of symptoms are more consistent with an alternative diagnosis.

**D - Cocaine** - Cocaine intoxication usually presents with agitation, mydriasis, nausea, tachycardia, and hypertension. Cocaine toxicity also usually causes diaphoresis, as opposed to the dry skin seen in this patient. Moreover, sedation is inconsistent with cocaine intoxication.

**E - Opioid** - Opioid intoxication presents with altered mental status, respiratory depression, and constipation. While this patient does have evidence of altered mental status, opioid toxicity would cause miosis, rather than mydriasis.

**F - Cyanide** - Cyanide intoxication can present with confusion (and in severe cases, seizure or coma), vertigo, headache, nausea and vomiting. Patients initially are usually hypertensive and tachycardic, but then become hypotensive and bradycardic. This patient's mydriasis and dry, erythematous skin are more suggestive of an alternative diagnosis.

**G - Amphetamine** - Amphetamine intoxication can present with constipation, mydriasis, and tachycardia. Patients with amphetamine toxicity are usually agitated or psychotic. Although coma can also occur in severe cases, his sedation is less consistent with amphetamine toxicity. Additionally, his dry mucous membranes suggest an alternative diagnosis.

**H - Carbon monoxide** - Carbon monoxide poisoning can present with a variety of clinical features, depending on the blood level concentrations, and include confusion and lethargy. However, other common symptoms include headache, malaise, and dizziness. A cherry-red appearance of the lips is also typical. In severe cases, MI and respiratory failure can occur. None of these signs are present in this patient.

