### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Administration of octreotide** - As a somatostatin analog, octreotide reduces the secretion of glucagon to control the symptoms resulting from hypersecretion of glucagon (hyperglycemia, diarrhea, necrolytic migratory erythema, neurologic symptoms). Next to other supportive care (e.g., control of hyperglycemia), octreotide is the preferred initial therapy to bring these symptoms under rapid control.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Distal pancreatectomy** - Resection of the distal portion of the pancreas is the definitive treatment for glucagonoma that is strictly localized to the pancreas and not metastasized. In localized disease, resection can lead to rapid resolution of symptoms. However, localized glucagonoma is rare and this patient already shows features that are highly suspicious for metastatic disease (liver lesions on ultrasound), which requires further evaluation before determining a surgical treatment option. Furthermore, even if the disease is localized, this woman's symptoms and hyperglycemia should be resolved before surgery.

**B - Measurement of serum zinc levels** - Zinc deficiency, which is commonly associated with malabsorptive syndromes (e.g., Crohn's disease, celiac disease), can present with chronic diarrhea, anemia, and skin lesions (especially perioral blistering lesions). Although these lesions are very similar to necrolytic migratory erythema, they do not migrate. Also, zinc deficiency is not associated with hyperglycemia and it does not explain the presence of a pancreatic mass.

**C - Endoscopic ultrasonography** - Endoscopic ultrasound provides excellent spatial resolution (up to 2–3 mm), allowing detection of very small tumors and providing more accurate information on the local disease extent. However, it only plays a minor role in the diagnosis of glucagonoma since it is primarily detected by the use of hormonal assays and CT or MRI imaging.

**D - Obtaining cancer antigen 19-9 levels** - CA 19-9 is a tumor marker that can be useful in the evaluation of exocrine pancreatic cancer. Since pancreatic cancer is a diagnosis that always needs histologic confirmation, tumor markers should not be routinely obtained for cancer screening or diagnosis. Once a definitive diagnosis of pancreatic cancer is established, CA 19-9 can be used later as a marker for prognosis and treatment response.

**F - Measurement of glycated hemoglobin** - Glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) is used as a marker to monitor glucose control in diabetic patients who are expected to have long-term impairment of glucose tolerance (such as insulin deficiency or resistance). It is not useful in patients who can be offered definitive causative treatment for secondary hyperglycemia (in this case: excessive glucagon secretion).

