### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Hyperglycemia** - Hyperglycemia is the most significant risk factor for the initiation and progression of diabetic nephropathy. NEG of proteins results in the formation of advanced glycation end-products and reactive oxygen species, which activate intercellular signaling pathways that lead to epigenetic alterations of proinflammatory and profibrotic gene expression. In the kidneys, this process manifests with thickening of the glomerular basement membrane, progressive glomerular hypertrophy, and glomerulosclerosis, resulting in worsening of the filtration capacity and possibly end-stage renal disease. Stringent glycemic control following the diagnosis of diabetes mellitus has been shown to limit the initiation and progression of diabetic nephropathy and may even partially reverse the loss of glomerular function (e.g., increased glomerular filtration rate and regression of albuminuria).

Other preventive strategies include lifestyle modifications and antihypertensive treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers.

Hyperglycemia is the most significant risk factor for the initiation and progression of DN. NEG of proteins occurs in a hyperglycemic environment and results in the formation of advanced glycation end-products and reactive oxygen species, which activate intercellular signaling pathways that lead to epigenetic alterations of proinflammatory and profibrotic gene expression. In the kidneys, this process manifests with thickening of the glomerular basement membrane, progressive glomerular hypertrophy, and glomerulosclerosis, resulting in worsening of the filtration capacity and possibly end-stage renal disease. Glycemic control early in the course of diabetes mellitus has been shown to limit the initiation and progression of DN independent of glycemic control later on (legacy effect). Stringent glycemic control may even partially reverse the loss of glomerular function.

Image File: 492-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a265769c8fad.jpg

Question Difficulty: 0

** Other Answers: **

**A - Glycosuria** - Glycosuria is a common finding in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and occurs when blood glucose levels (typically above 180 mg/dL) exceed renal tubular reabsorption capacity. While glycosuria is an important risk factor for urinary tract infections, it is not associated with the initiation or progression of DN.

**B - Hyperreninemia** - Hyperreninemia and the subsequent activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) is an important risk factor for the progression of hypertensive nephropathy. RAAS activation also contributes to the progression of diabetic nephropathy in hypertensive patients with diabetes mellitus. Therefore, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers are used to treat arterial hypertension in these patients. However, the role of hyperreninemia in normotensive diabetic patients is less clear, and hyperreninemia is not associated with the initiation of diabetic nephropathy.



Hyperreninemia plays a significant role as the initiator of pathological renal changes in hypertensive nephropathy. In DN, paracrine hyperreninemia and RAAS activation (secondary to altered glomerular structure and hemodynamics) lead to a vicious cycle that contributes to the progression of DN. Therefore, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers, which have a renoprotective effect independent of the degree of blood-pressure reduction, are used to limit the progression of DN. However, the role of hyperreninemia in the initiation of DN is less clear; patients with diabetes mellitus often have low or normal levels of plasma renin activity prior to the onset of DN. A different pathophysiological process is the primary initiator of glomerular changes of DN.

**C - Albuminuria** - Albuminuria is an early sign of DN and is used as a clinical marker to detect the onset and grade the severity of kidney damage in patients with diabetes mellitus. However, the filtered albumin does not lead to glomerular damage, and albuminuria occurs only when the glomerular filtration capacity is already impaired (due to increased permeability of the basement membrane).

**E - Hyperinsulinemia** - Hyperinsulinemia occurs early in the course of type 2 diabetes mellitus as a result of insulin resistance. Although hyperinsulinemia may lead to renal damage via several mechanisms, it is not the most significant risk factor for the initiation of DN, since DN also occurs in type 1 diabetes mellitus in which patients are hypoinsulinemic.

Image File: 492-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b9630ba5a8aa.jpg

