### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Pituitary adenoma** - In addition to features of hypothyroidism, this patient has decreased TSH levels, indicating secondary (central) hypothyroidism. Pituitary mass lesions, especially pituitary adenomas, are the most common cause of central hypothyroidism. Pituitary tumors can cause hypothyroidism by compressing and destroying TSH-releasing cells.

Image File: 494-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_588f516098661.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hemochromatosis** - Iron overload from hemochromatosis can result in pituitary damage, causing central hypothyroidism. While patients also have other signs of classic pituitary dysfunction such as sexual dysfunction, they often also present with changes in their skin pigmentation, hyperglycemia ("bronze diabetes"), and joint pain (MCP II and III). This patient does not show any signs of iron storage disease.

**B - Tuberculosis** - In rare cases, tuberculosis (TB) can infiltrate the pituitary or the hypothalamus, causing central hypothyroidism. However, except for an occasional cough, this patient lacks findings of tuberculosis such as night sweats and weight loss. Even when travelling to countries where TB is endemic, significant exposure to high-risk populations (e.g., hospital workers) is required for infection.

**D - Graves disease** - Patients with Graves disease have low TSH levels but present with symptoms of hyperthyroidism such as heat intolerance, diarrhea, and warm and moist skin. Other hallmark signs are Graves ophthalmopathy and diffuse goiter, neither of which is present in this patient.

**E - Hashimoto thyroiditis** - Hashimoto thyroiditis presents with signs of hypothyroidism, since autoantibodies gradually destroy the thyroid gland and subsequently reduce thyroid hormone levels. Reactive TSH secretion by an intact pituitary follows, resulting in elevated TSH levels.

