### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Fluid restriction** - Fluid restriction is the first-line treatment for SIADH. Intake of fluids must be decreased to the point where excretion of free water is greater than intake of free water. This reverses the dilutional hyponatremia that occurred from the ADH-induced water retention.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Head elevation** - Head elevation, as well as avoiding neck flexion/rotation or circumstances that may provoke Valsalva responses, are important actions to take when dealing with elevated intracranial pressure (ICP). This woman's history of head trauma is concerning for elevated ICP, especially since a subdural hematoma was noted on admission. With new onset headache, further evaluation of the hematoma is necessary. However, since it appears to be stable and she is hyponatremic, this particular intervention is unlikely to provide relief of her symptoms.

**B - Demeclocycline** - Demeclocycline, a tetracycline, is helpful in treating SIADH because it is an ADH antagonist within the kidney. However, this therapy is reserved for symptomatic patients, or when initial interventions fail to correct the hyponatremia.

**C - Tolvaptan** - Tolvaptan is a vasopressin receptor antagonist, which makes it a useful drug for treating SIADH. This therapy is reserved for symptomatic patients, or when multiple interventions fail to correct the hyponatremia.

**D - Desmopressin** - Desmopressin is a synthetic vasopressin (i.e., ADH) analog used to treat central diabetes insipidus. Increased ADH in this woman would make her hyponatremia worse.

**F - Mannitol** - Mannitol is an osmotic diuretic used to treat cerebral edema, elevated intracranial pressure, and acute angle-closure glaucoma. It acts to pull water into the nephron and reverse the dilutional hyponatremia. However, it causes large increases in urine output that can lead to dehydration and hypernatremia if not monitored closely.

**G - Hypertonic saline** - Hypertonic saline is used for hyponatremia with severe symptoms (e.g., seizures, altered mental status, coma) which can be seen in some cases of SIADH. Because this patient's symptoms are mild (e.g., headaches, fatigue), a less invasive treatment should be tried first.

