### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Decreased serum cortisol concentration** - The anterior pituitary gland receives its blood supply from a relatively low-pressure arterial system and is, therefore, vulnerable to ischemia and infarction (e.g., due to hemorrhagic shock). As a result, patients who experience severe blood loss during delivery can develop hypopituitarism (Sheehan syndrome). Symptoms can develop immediately after delivery or within months to years. Impaired production and release of ACTH from the anterior pituitary gland result in cortisol deficiency. Manifestations of hypocortisolism include weight loss (which outweighs the weight gain caused by low thyroid hormones), hypotension, hyponatremia, hypoglycemia, and fatigue. Patients who are suspected of having Sheehan syndrome should receive testing of anterior pituitary hormones (i.e., ACTH, TSH, prolactin, FSH/LH, and growth hormone). Treatment consists of the replacement of the deficient hormones, though there is currently no available treatment for prolactin deficiency.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increased serum sodium concentration** - Sheehan syndrome is characterized by damage to the pituitary gland due to postpartum hemorrhage, which results in a deficiency of anterior pituitary hormones. No anterior pituitary hormone deficiency is associated with an increased serum sodium concentration; ACTH deficiency can cause hyponatremia as a result of increased water retention in the kidneys mediated by excess secretion of antidiuretic hormone.

**B - Decreased serum aldosterone concentration** - Sheehan syndrome is characterized by damage to the pituitary gland due to postpartum hemorrhage, which results in a deficiency of anterior pituitary hormones. Lack of ACTH causes secondary adrenal insufficiency, which results in manifestations of hypocortisolism and hypoandrogenism, as seen in this patient. However, in contrast to primary adrenal insufficiency, ACTH deficiency is not associated with hypoaldosteronism because mineralocorticoid production is controlled by the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, not by ACTH.

**C - Increased serum TSH concentration** - Sheehan syndrome can cause secondary hypothyroidism, which manifests similarly to conditions that cause primary deficiencies of thyroid hormones (e.g., Hashimoto disease). These manifestations include fatigue, bradycardia, ankle edema, dry skin, and prolonged relaxation phase of deep tendon reflexes, as seen in this patient. However, the underlying cause of secondary hypothyroidism in patients with Sheehan syndrome is damage to the pituitary gland due to postpartum hemorrhage, which results in a decrease, not increase, in the serum concentrations of the anterior pituitary hormones, including TSH. While isolated hypothyroidism typically manifests with weight gain, this patient's weight loss is the result of a different hormone deficiency caused by Sheehan syndrome.

**D - Increased serum FSH concentration** - Sheehan syndrome can cause secondary hypogonadism, which manifests similarly to conditions that cause primary deficiencies of estrogen (e.g., primary ovarian insufficiency, menopause). These manifestations include oligomenorrhea and amenorrhea, as seen in this patient. However, the underlying cause of secondary hypogonadism, in patients with Sheehan syndrome is damage to the pituitary gland due to postpartum hemorrhage, which results in a decrease, not increase, in the serum concentrations of the anterior pituitary hormones, including FSH.

**E - Decreased serum oxytocin concentration** - Patients with Sheehan syndrome develop damage to the pituitary gland due to postpartum hemorrhage. The anterior pituitary gland receives its blood supply from a relatively low-pressure arterial system and is, therefore, vulnerable to ischemia and infarction. In contrast, the posterior pituitary gland is thought to receive its blood supply from a higher-pressure arterial system. Accordingly, the posterior pituitary gland hormones, including antidiuretic hormone and oxytocin, are not typically affected in patients with Sheehan syndrome.

