### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - She smokes 1 pack of cigarettes daily** - Oral contraceptives (OCPs) are contraindicated in individuals above the age of 35 who smoke over 15 cigarettes a day. Combined estrogen-progestin OCPs increase the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE), predominantly because estrogen induces a prothrombotic state. Because smoking has a similar prothrombotic effect, OCPs are contraindicated in heavy smokers to prevent VTE.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Her hemoglobin A1c is 8.6%** - A hemoglobin A1c level of 8.6% indicates diabetes mellitus. Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus with vascular injury manifesting with end-organ damage (e.g., nephropathy, retinopathy, or neuropathy) is an absolute contraindication for OCP. However, there is no evidence of end-organ damage in this patient, so OCPs are not contraindicated.

**C - She has recurrent migraine headaches without aura** - While migraine headaches with aura are absolute contraindications for OCP use, in the absence of an aura OCP use is not contraindicated.

**D - She has a history of cervical dysplasia** - Large-scale prospective studies have found that long-term OCP use is associated with only a slight increase in the risk of cervical cancer and that the risk returns to normal after OCP cessation. Cervical dysplasia is not an absolute contraindication for OCP use.

**E - Her father had an ischemic stroke** - While a medical history of cerebrovascular accident in the patient herself would be an absolute contraindication for OCP use, a family history of stroke does not contraindicate the initiation of contraception.

**F - Her infant is still breastfeeding** - In the immediate post-partum period (30 days after delivery), combined estrogen-progestin OCP use is absolutely contraindicated in patients breastfeeding their infants. However, this patient is 8 months post-partum, at which point combined OCP use is appropriate.

