### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Serum thyroid-stimulating hormone** - Lithium, a mood stabilizer commonly used as monotherapy for both acute and long-term treatment of mild to moderate manic episodes of bipolar disorder, blocks the coupling of thyroid hormone precursors, the release of T4 and T3, and the conversion of T4 to T3. As a result, hypothyroidism is a common side effect of lithium, which is why thyroid function tests (e.g., thyroid-stimulating hormone and free T4) should be performed every 6–12 months during ongoing treatment. Lithium-induced hypothyroidism, which is often subclinical, should be treated with replacement therapy. There is usually no need to discontinue lithium therapy.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Serum aminotransferases** - Regular measurement of serum aminotransferases is not necessary with lithium treatment because this drug is not known to cause liver damage. Valproic acid, which can also be used as a mood stabilizer in patients with bipolar disorder, is associated with severe hepatotoxicity. Therefore, serum liver testing prior to valproate therapy and at frequent intervals thereafter is recommended.

**C - Complete blood count with differential** - Although leukocytosis is a possible side effect of lithium, this is usually clinically insignificant and does not warrant the regular measurement of complete blood count with differential. Clozapine, which is sometimes used for treatment-resistant bipolar disorder, can cause life-threatening agranulocytosis, which is why a complete blood count should frequently be obtained in patients using this drug.

**D - Serum glucose** - Although lithium has been associated with hyperglycemia, this is an uncommon side effect; therefore, regular measurement of serum glucose is not recommended during ongoing treatment. Atypical antipsychotics (e.g., clozapine, olanzapine, quetiapine), which can be used to treat acute mania or as adjunctive therapy for refractory bipolar disorder, are known to cause hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and weight gain. Thus, fasting serum glucose should be monitored regularly in patients using this group of drugs.

**E - Urine culture** - Routine urine cultures are unnecessary with lithium treatment because this drug is not associated with urinary tract infections. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is a possible side effect of lithium as a result of interference with ADH signaling. However, a urine culture is irrelevant in diagnosing nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.

