### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Eplerenone therapy** - Eplerenone, an aldosterone receptor antagonist, is the treatment of choice for primary hyperaldosteronism caused by bilateral adrenal hyperplasia. The elevated aldosterone of bilateral adrenal hyperplasia must be addressed by either blocking its receptors or surgically removing the adrenal glands. Compared to bilateral adrenalectomy, medical therapy is preferred to better control blood pressure and prevent the need for lifelong glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid replacement.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Amiloride therapy** - Therapy with amiloride is second-line treatment of bilateral adrenal hyperplasia. By blocking the epithelial sodium channel in the distal convoluted tubule, less sodium is reabsorbed and less potassium is secreted, which results in diuresis similar to other potassium-sparing diuretics. However, amiloride fails to address the action of the elevated aldosterone on the mineralocorticoid receptors located throughout the body, as this unchecked signaling increases the risk of deleterious cardiovascular effects (i.e. atrial fibrillation, nonfatal myocardial infarction, and stroke).

**B - Aliskiren therapy** - Aliskiren therapy is used to treat hypertension when ACE inhibitors and ARBs are not tolerated. However, this patient's blood pressure is caused by elevated aldosterone, which means this medication has no role in treating his hypertension.

**C - Propranolol therapy** - Propranolol therapy can be used for treating hypertension but would not treat this patient's underlying elevated aldosterone. Common uses for this medication include essential tremor, migraine prophylaxis, and portal hypertension, none of which are present in this patient.

**D - Unilateral adrenalectomy** - If imaging or adrenal venous sampling had indicated the presence of a unilateral adenoma, then a unilateral adrenalectomy would be the first-line intervention. Although the procedure has been shown to have some positive effect in treating patients with bilateral adrenal hyperplasia by reducing the amount of adrenal tissue back to an appropriate level, it is not considered first-line treatment.

**F - Lisinopril therapy** - Lisinopril therapy in bilateral adrenal hyperplasia is saved for patients with hypertension that persists after appropriate treatment. Other than its role in that particular instance, lisinopril by itself does not address the underlying cause of the hypertension.

**G - Bilateral adrenalectomy** - Bilateral adrenalectomy is not a recommended therapy for bilateral adrenal hyperplasia because it would require lifelong glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid replacement therapy, which would likely cause various serious side effects over time.

