### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Cushing syndrome** - Cushing syndrome is the most likely diagnosis in a patient presenting with menstrual changes, fatigue, acne, hirsutism, ecchymoses, hypertension, and proximal muscle weakness. Irregular menstrual cycles are likely due to the inhibitory effect of high circulating cortisol on gonadotropin release. Hyperglycemia is caused by cortisol stimulating gluconeogenesis, peripheral insulin resistance, and direct suppression of insulin release. Leukocytosis can occur as a result of demargination of neutrophils from vascular walls. Hypokalemia is due to the aldosterone-like effects of cortisol, which stimulates excretion of potassium and hydrogen ions, causing metabolic alkalosis.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Primary hyperaldosteronism** - Primary hyperaldosteronism is one of the most common causes of secondary hypertension. It is caused by elevated circulating aldosterone levels, which result in increased sodium reabsorption and potassium excretion in the urine. Although this patient's blood pressure is elevated, her menstrual changes, fatigue, acne, hirsutism, ecchymoses, and proximal muscle weakness are not consistent with hyperaldosteronism.

**C - Pheochromocytoma** - Pheochromocytoma, a catecholamine-secreting tumor of the adrenal glands, leads to an increased sympathetic activity. Patients typically present with episodic hypertension, headaches, palpitations, and diaphoresis. Although this patient has elevated blood pressure, she does not have headaches. Furthermore, symptoms such as menstrual abnormalities, fatigue, acne, and hirsutism are not consistent with pheochromocytoma.

**D - Polycystic ovarian syndrome** - Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is characterized by high levels of circulating androgens, which leads to virilization, obesity, acne, and hirsutism. Although the clinical presentation of PCOS overlaps with Cushing syndrome, this patient's proximal muscle weakness, ecchymoses, hypertension, and leukocytosis make PCOS less likely.

**E - Hypothyroidism** - Hypothyroidism can present with weight gain, fatigue, menstrual cycle abnormalities, hypertension, muscle weakness, acne, and possibly hirsutism. However, constipation, dry skin, cold intolerance, and delayed relaxation of tendon reflexes would also be expected. Additionally, hypothyroidism would also not explain this patient's ecchymoses, leukocytosis, or hyperglycemia (hypoglycemia is possible instead).

