### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Adrenalectomy** - This patient most likely has primary hypercortisolism, which is typically caused by autonomous overproduction of cortisol by the adrenal gland (most commonly due to adrenal adenoma). Excess cortisol production suppresses pituitary secretion of ACTH, leading to low ACTH levels and ACTH-independent Cushing syndrome, as seen here. The treatment of choice for patients with adrenocortical tumors is laparoscopic or open adrenalectomy. After surgical therapy, patients who develop adrenal insufficiency require lifelong glucocorticoid replacement therapy.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Prednisolone therapy** - Since this patient has Cushing syndrome due to primary hypercortisolism, therapy with prednisolone is contraindicated because it would aggravate her condition.

**B - Metyrapone therapy** - Metyrapone, ketoconazole, and etomidate are drugs that suppress cortisol synthesis and are used in patients with nonresectable ACTH-producing tumors (e.g., inoperable adrenal carcinomas, advanced small cell carcinoma of the lung), which would cause an elevated ACTH. This patient has primary hypercortisolism caused by a cortisol-producing tumor.

**D - Polychemotherapy and radiation therapy** - The combination of polychemotherapy and radiation is a curative treatment approach for patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC) who have limited-stage disease. SCLC is frequently associated with paraneoplastic syndromes and is the most common cause of endogenous Cushing syndrome from an ectopic source of ACTH. In SCLC, the affected cells produce ACTH that is resistant to negative feedback of high cortisol, resulting in secondary hypercortisolism. This patient has primary hypercortisolism.

**E - Transsphenoidal hypophysectomy** - Transsphenoidal hypophysectomy is the treatment of choice in patients with corticotropic pituitary adenoma, which would also present with Cushing syndrome. Although pituitary adenoma is the most common cause of endogenous Cushing syndrome (i.e., Cushing disease), it would result in secondary hypercortisolism due to increased ACTH production by the tumor. This patient has primary hypercortisolism.

**F - Partial nephrectomy** - Partial nephrectomy is the treatment of choice in patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Patients with RCC may present with paraneoplastic manifestations, including Cushing syndrome due to ectopic ACTH production (secondary hypercortisolism) that is resistant to negative feedback of high cortisol. This patient has primary hypercortisolism.

