### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - QT prolongation** - QT prolongation is seen in hypocalcemia due to slower calcium influx during phase 2 of the myocardial action potential and lengthening of the ST segment, whereas the T wave remains unaffected. Hypoparathyroidism, caused by trauma during thyroidectomy or parathyroidectomy, is the most common cause of hypocalcemia. Other, less common causes include vitamin D deficiency, PTH resistance, increased phosphate binding (rhabdomyolysis or tumor lysis syndrome), and hypomagnesemia.

Image File: 508-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_604b8d036baa7.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Torsade de pointes** - Torsade de pointes is usually associated with hypomagnesemia, which can also present with tremor and tetany. Furthermore, severe hypomagnesemia can lead to hypocalcemia, which would also explain the patient's other symptoms. However, given his history of thyroid surgery, iatrogenic hypoparathyroidism is the more likely cause of hypocalcemia in this patient. Hypocalcemia does not typically cause Torsade de pointes.

**C - U waves** - U waves are seen in hypokalemia, which typically presents with cardiac arrhythmias, fatigue, muscle weakness, weakened deep tendon reflexes, and constipation. Hypokalemia can be caused by a transcellular shift of potassium (metabolic alkalosis or medications such as insulin or beta-agonist therapy) or a decrease in total body potassium due to decreased intake, renal loss (hyperaldosteronism, hypercortisolism, or diuretic use), or gastrointestinal loss (diarrhea, vomiting, or laxative use). Neither the patient's symptoms nor his history point to hypokalemia.

**D - Peaked T waves** - Peaked T waves are seen in hyperkalemia, which manifests with cardiac arrhythmias, muscle weakness, weakened deep tendon reflexes, and diarrhea. Hyperkalemia can be caused by a transcellular shift of potassium due to acidosis, or medications such as succinylcholine or digoxin; or an increase in total body potassium due to reduced excretion or medications such as potassium-sparing diuretics. Neither the patient's symptoms nor his history point to hyperkalemia.

**E - PR prolongation** - PR interval prolongation would be seen in hyperkalemia, which manifests with cardiac arrhythmias, muscle weakness, weakened deep tendon reflexes, and diarrhea. Hyperkalemia can be caused by a transcellular shift of potassium due to acidosis, or medications such as succinylcholine or digoxin; or an increase in total body potassium due to reduced excretion or medications such as potassium-sparing diuretics. Neither the patient's symptoms nor his history point to hyperkalemia.

