### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Anabolic steroid use** - Since anabolic steroid use can induce muscle building, is often used by bodybuilders (like this patient) and other athletes. Side effects of extraneous anabolic steroids include gynecomastia, increased irritability, increased hematocrit, and reduction of testicular size, all of which are seen in this patient.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Side effect of tinea capitis treatment** - This patient was recently treated for tinea capitis. Several agents that can be used as systemic therapy for tinea capitis, e.g., fluconazole, ketoconazole, or itraconazole, can cause gynecomastia due to decreased testosterone synthesis. However, none of these agents would explain this patient's increased irritability or decreased testicular size, which are symptoms of excess testosterone.

**C - Normal aging** - Physiologic gynecomastia can occur with aging, but after early puberty, it typically does not appear again until around the age of 50. This patient is only 40 years old and is presenting with additional symptoms of decreased testicular size and increased irritability, which suggests another cause.

**D - Cirrhosis** - Cirrhosis can cause gynecomastia but typically presents with additional signs of jaundice, hepatosplenomegaly, ascites, and skin changes. While this patient is at risk for developing cirrhosis based on his alcohol consumption, his lack of hepatosplenomegaly and other findings makes cirrhosis an unlikely diagnosis. Additionally, cirrhosis would not cause the reduction in testicular size seen in this patient.

**E - Obesity** - Obesity can result in pseudogynecomastia, which refers to fat deposition around the nipples that does not involve glandular proliferation. While this patient has an elevated BMI (30.1 kg/m2) that technically classifies him as obese, he is preparing for a bodybuilding competition and is likely heavier because of his amount of muscle mass rather than excess fatty tissue.

**F - Erythropoietin use** - Erythropoietin is sometimes used by athletes to stimulate erythropoiesis, which increases the oxygen-carrying capacity of blood. Side effects include hypertension, polycythemia, and increased risk of myocardial infarction and stroke. While a history of erythropoietin use would explain this patient's high hematocrit level, it would not explain his gynecomastia, irritability, or small testes. Moreover, erythropoietin use is generally seen in athletes aiming to increase endurance rather than those seeking to build muscle mass.

**G - Marijuana use** - Marijuana use can be associated with the development of gynecomastia and irritability during withdrawal. However, the testicular atrophy present in this patient is not explained by marijuana use. This patient's clinical features and laboratory findings are more consistent with a different diagnosis.

