### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Muscarinic antagonist** - Antipsychotic-induced pseudoparkinsonism is generally treated with dose reduction or discontinuation of the offending drug. However, if this does not suffice or is not feasible due to active psychotic illness, pharmaceutical treatment should be initiated to provide symptomatic relief. Centrally-acting muscarinic antagonists, e.g., benztropine and trihexyphenidyl, are the preferred treatment for pseudoparkinsonism associated with antipsychotic drugs in most patients. Elderly patients, however, should be treated with amantadine to avoid the potential anticholinergic side effects of muscarinic antagonists (e.g., dry mouth, constipation, urinary retention, cognitive impairments, delirium).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - β-adrenergic antagonist** - β-adrenergic antagonists such as propranolol are the preferred treatment for essential tremor. Unlike this patient's tremor, essential tremor typically manifests as a bilateral tremor of the hands that worsens with voluntary movements but resolves at rest. Moreover, essential tremors are sporadic or hereditary in nature and are not associated with consumption of antipsychotic drugs.

**B - GABA agonist** - GABA agonists, such as benzodiazepines, are not indicated for drug-induced pseudoparkinsonism but are used as a second-line treatment for drug-induced acute dystonia (second-line due to its anticholinergic properties). This extrapyramidal symptom (EPS) manifests within hours to days of antipsychotic treatment with painful and lasting muscle spasms of the eye, tongue, neck (torticollis), and back muscles. After acute treatment of the dystonia, the offending antipsychotic drug should be replaced with an antipsychotic that has a lower risk for EPS.

**C - Dopamine antagonist** - Immediate discontinuation of the offending antipsychotic drug and replacement with the weak dopamine antagonist clozapine is recommended in patients who develop signs of tardive dyskinesia. This extrapyramidal symptom (EPS) involves involuntary choreoathetoid movements of the mouth (repetitive chewing and lip-smacking), face, and extremities, which develop after months to years of treatment. Although switching to an atypical antipsychotic drug generally reduces the risk of EPS progression, another drug is more likely to provide immediate relief for this patient's pseudoparkinsonism.

**D - Histamine antagonist** - The histamine antagonist diphenhydramine is not indicated for drug-induced pseudoparkinsonism but is used as a second-line treatment for drug-induced acute dystonia (second-line due to its anticholinergic properties). Acute dystonia manifests within hours to days of antipsychotic treatment with painful and lasting spasms of the eye, tongue, neck (torticollis), and back muscles. After acute treatment of the dystonia, the offending antipsychotic drug should be replaced with an antipsychotic with a lower risk of extrapyramidal symptoms.

