### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Elevated TSH** - Elevated thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) can indicate primary hypothyroidism, subclinical hypothyroidism, or another thyroid disorder. This patient presents with menorrhagia, fatigue, weight gain, bradycardia, facial myxedema (puffy appearance), thinning of the eyebrows, and diminished deep tendon reflexes with delayed relaxation, all of which are typical features of hypothyroidism. The history of limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis suggests an autoimmune etiology of hypothyroidism, such as Hashimoto's thyroiditis, since autoimmune thyroiditis is often associated with other autoimmune diseases, including vitiligo, pernicious anemia, type 1 diabetes mellitus, and systemic connective tissue diseases (e.g., SLE, systemic sclerosis, or vasculitides).

Image File: 510-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e8c835de6be5.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Decreased von Willebrand factor level** - Decreased von Willebrand factor (vWF) levels are characteristic of von Willebrand disease (vWD). VWD is one of the most common bleeding disorders and a common cause of menorrhagia. However, a bleeding disorder would not explain the patient's weight gain, fatigue, myxedema, and diminished deep tendon reflexes, making the diagnosis unlikely.

Image File: 510-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d5fb1f04aa24.jpg

**C - Benign uterine neoplasms** - Uterine leiomyomas are benign uterine neoplasms that can present with hypermenorrhea, menorrhagia, and dysmenorrhea, which are caused by the increased total surface area as a result of the bulging uterine wall, impaired endometrial wall contractility, or micro/macrovascular abnormalities. Although this patient's obesity is a risk factor, an enlarged, firm and irregular uterus would be expected on bimanual pelvic examination. Furthermore, uterine neoplasms would not explain this patient's other symptoms (e.g., fatigue, myxedema, and diminished deep tendon reflexes).

**D - Prolonged aPTT** - A prolonged aPTT is indicative of a bleeding disorder that involves the intrinsic pathway of coagulation, such as hemophilia or von Willebrand disease (vWD). Menorrhagia is a common symptom in female carriers of the mutated x chromosome responsible for hemophilia A and B. VWD is one of the most common bleeding disorders in pediatric patients and also a common cause of menorrhagia. However, the patient presents with additional symptoms that cannot be explained by a bleeding diathesis, including weight gain, fatigue, myxedema, and diminished deep tendon reflexes.

Image File: 510-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d972fcf0397c.jpg

**E - Elevated midnight cortisol** - Since serum cortisol is normally lowest around midnight, measuring midnight cortisol in the serum or saliva is the preferred initial screening test for Cushing's syndrome. Cushing's syndrome can present with weight gain, fatigue, a puffy facial appearance (“moon facies”), and irregular menstrual cycles, as seen in this patient. In contrast to this patient's menorrhagia, which occurs in regular 30-day intervals, menorrhagia due to Cushing's syndrome is usually caused by anovulatory cycles, which are the result of pituitary axis inhibition. Furthermore, Cushing's syndrome is not normally associated with an autoimmune disease.

**F - Endometrial overgrowths** - Uterine polyps are endometrial overgrowths that frequently cause abnormal uterine bleeding. Risk factors include obesity, a history of cervical polyps, and/or tamoxifen or hormone replacement therapy. In this premenopausal obese woman, uterine polyps could explain her menorrhagia. However, uterine polyps usually present as vaginal bleeding or spotting between periods rather than increased menstrual flow and duration. In addition, endometrial polyps would not cause the patient's other findings, such as fatigue, weight gain, myxedema, and diminished deep tendon reflexes.

**G - Elevated LH:FSH ratio** - An elevated LH:FSH ratio is characteristic of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Although PCOS could explain this patient's weight gain, other common features are missing, including oligo- or amenorrhea (not menorrhagia), infertility, hirsutism, acne vulgaris, obesity, and possibly other signs of metabolic syndrome.

**H - Elevated androgens** - Elevated androgen levels can lead to menstrual irregularities in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) or 21β-hydroxylase deficiency (most common form of CAH). Although PCOS could explain this patient's weight gain, other common features are missing, including oligo- or amenorrhea (not menorrhagia), infertility, hirsutism, acne vulgaris, obesity, and possibly other signs of metabolic syndrome. As for 21β-hydroxylase deficiency, unlike this patient, affected females would present at birth with female pseudohermaphroditism, precocious puberty (because excess androgens are aromatized to estrogen), and hypotension (due to salt-wasting associated with hypoaldosteronism and hypocortisolism).

