### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Medication adverse effect** - Drug-induced SIADH is an adverse effect of cyclophosphamide (often given to patients with PAN), which results in unrestricted secretion of ADH. Untreated SIADH leads to hyponatremia, manifesting with nausea, vomiting, weakness, and in severe cases, altered mental status (e.g., confusion, disorientation). Laboratory studies show low serum sodium and low serum osmolality due to excessive free water retention, as well as hypouricemia (due to increased urinary uric acid clearance) and concentrated urine (due to inappropriate reabsorption of water). Cessation of the offending drug is the first step in management. In addition to being a possible adverse effect of medications (chlorpropamide, carbamazepine, cyclophosphamide, SSRIs), SIADH can be caused by intracranial infections (i.e., meningitis, encephalitis), malignancies (especially small cell lung carcinoma), pulmonary diseases (pneumonia, COPD), and stroke.

Image File: 511-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f3e8519b9281.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Volume depletion** - Dehydration due to volume depletion can manifest with nausea, vomiting, and generalized weakness in mild to moderate dehydration and altered mental status (e.g., confusion, disorientation, lethargy) in severe cases. However, patients with dehydration typically present with hypernatremia and high serum osmolality due to the reduction in total body water, low urine sodium excretion, clinical signs of dehydration (e.g., dry mucus membranes, decreased skin turgor), and abnormal vital signs (i.e., hypotension, tachycardia). This patient has hyponatremia, low serum osmolality, no clinical signs of dehydration (normal skin turgor, moist mucus membranes), and vital signs within normal limits indicating a euvolemic state.

**C - Excessive water intake** - Excessive water intake (e.g.. due to psychogenic polydipsia) can result in hyponatremia and low serum osmolality. However, patients with excessive water intake typically have low urine osmolality due to the body's attempt to excrete excessive free water; this patient's urinalysis shows concentrated urine indicating excessive free water reabsorption.

**D - Adrenal insufficiency** - Adrenal insufficiency can result in hyponatremia due to reduced aldosterone secretion. However, hypoaldosteronism also results in hypovolemia, hyperkalemia, and mild hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis, none of which is seen here. In addition, excessive loss of sodium and water as opposed to concentrated urine would be expected.

**E - Cerebral ischemia** - Cerebral ischemia (i.e., stroke) can result in SIADH, which can manifest with dilutional hyponatremia, decreased serum osmolality, and concentrated urine, as seen here. Although this patient presents with altered mental status, neurological evaluation shows no focal deficits or additional signs of cerebral ischemia, making this diagnosis less likely.

**F - Acute kidney injury** - Acute kidney injury can result in hyponatremia due to the kidney's inability to reabsorb sodium. However, this patients lacks additional signs of kidney injury including oliguria, signs of volume depletion (e.g., hypotension), signs of uremia, elevated creatinine, and the inability to concentrate the urine.

