### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Primary hyperparathyroidism** - Primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT) is characterized by excessive excretion of parathyroid hormone (PTH). PTH increases renal calcium reabsorption, decreases renal phosphate reabsorption, and stimulates osteoclast activity, causing calcium release from bones. Thus, pHPT typically causes hypercalcemia with hypophosphatemia, as seen in this patient. Clinical features of pHPT include gastrointestinal (e.g., nausea and vomiting), renal (e.g., nephrolithiasis), and musculoskeletal (e.g., lower back pain) manifestations, all of which are seen here. In addition, hypercalcemia, regardless of the etiology, can cause acute pancreatitis. To confirm the diagnosis, serum PTH levels and urine calcium levels should be measured.

Other typical manifestations of pHPT include psychiatric features (e.g., depression, fatigue, anxiety, sleep disorders) and polyuria.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hyperlipoproteinemia** - Hyperlipoproteinemia can manifest with severe hypertriglyceridemia (triglyceride levels > 1,000 mg/dL), which can cause acute pancreatitis. However, this patient has normal triglyceride and lipid levels. Furthermore, hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia are not expected in hyperlipoproteinemia.

**B - Metastatic bone disease** - Metastatic bone disease causes hypercalcemia and can also manifest with bone pain. However, metastatic bone disease is associated with normal serum phosphate levels rather than hypophosphatemia. Furthermore, this patient has no history of malignancy.

**C - Distal renal tubular acidosis** - Distal renal tubular acidosis (type 1 RTA) is caused by ineffective secretion of H+ into the distal tubule, leading to an increase in urine pH that results in nephrocalcinosis and calcium phosphate stone formation. Bone demineralization and subsequent bone pain may also occur. However, Type 1 RTA does not explain this patient's hypercalcemia or acute pancreatitis. Furthermore, type 1 RTA is most often associated with inherited genetic abnormalities or autoimmune diseases, including Sjogren syndrome and rheumatoid arthritis, neither of which is seen here.

**D - Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia** - Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia (FHH) is caused by mutations of calcium-sensing receptors in parathyroid glands and kidneys, leading to increased serum calcium levels. In most cases, however, FHH is asymptomatic and no treatment is necessary. Furthermore, in patients with FHH, urinary calcium excretion is low and nephrolithiasis is not expected.

