### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Zoledronic acid** - Bisphosphonates such as zoledronic acid reduce serum calcium levels by reducing osteoclast-mediated bone resorption and are considered first-line in malignancy-associated hypercalcemia. Given this patient's history of breast cancer, her hypercalcemia is likely malignancy-related (due to humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy or osteolytic metastases). In symptomatic patients with moderate hypercalcemia (12–14 mg/dL), long-term therapy is usually recommended in order to avoid the sequelae of hypercalcemia (e.g., renal insufficiency). Further measures to reduce serum calcium levels include reducing dietary intake, discontinuing medications that increase serum calcium levels (e.g., thiazide diuretics), and avoiding dehydration. In patients with symptomatic moderate or severe hypercalcemia, IV hydration and calcitonin should be used to lower calcium levels in the acute setting.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cinacalcet** - Cinacalcet reduces calcium levels by inhibiting PTH production and is indicated in hypercalcemia secondary to hyperparathyroidism. However, this patient has suppressed PTH levels due to hypercalcemia. Moreover, malignancy-associated hypercalcemia is typically mediated by parathormone-related protein rather than PTH, in which case cinacalcet would be ineffective.

**B - Magnesium oxide** - Magnesium oxide is useful in managing hypomagnesemia, which is commonly seen in association with hypocalcemia. In patients with hypocalcemia, serum levels of calcium often fail to normalize in the presence of coexisting magnesium deficiency. However, this patient has elevated rather than reduced calcium levels, and magnesium supplementation would not be useful.

**C - Denosumab** - Denosumab is typically reserved for patients with calcium levels above 12.5 mg/dl or when first-line hypercalcemia treatments fail. As this patient's calcium level is 12 mg/dl and she is treatment-naive, an alternate agent would be more appropriate at this time.

**D - Furosemide** - Furosemide is sometimes used in the treatment of patients with severe hypercalcemia as a means of rapidly reducing serum calcium levels. However, furosemide has been shown to have limited efficacy in the treatment of hypercalcemia and, in addition, bears a risk of exacerbating associated dehydration and fluid loss. Furosemide is not an appropriate long-term treatment for hypercalcemia.

**F - Prednisone** - Prednisone is appropriate in treating hypercalcemia associated with lymphoma or chronic granulomatous disorders such as sarcoidosis, where the pathogenesis of the hypercalcemia is due to the increased production of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (calcitriol). In these conditions, corticosteroids can reduce the production of calcitriol in activated macrophages. However, this patient has no evidence of granulomatous disease or lymphoma, and prednisone is, therefore, unlikely to be effective.

