### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Growth hormone and testosterone** - This patient's presentation is consistent with Prader-Willi syndrome, a genetic syndrome caused by a microdeletion on the paternal gene copy of chromosome 15. Newborns present with muscular hypotonia, dysmorphic facial features (e.g., esotropia), genital hypoplasia, and cryptorchidism. Growth hormone deficiency (short stature), premature adrenarche, hypogonadism (risk factor for osteoporosis), and hyperphagia with development of obesity are observed as the children grow. Developmental delays (delayed language development) and behavioral problems are also commonly seen. The administration of growth hormone and sex hormones is the treatment of choice for management of obesity, growth hormone insufficiency, and hypogonadism.

Image File: 518-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6040f75fc6f55.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Fluoxetine** - Fluoxetine is an SSRI indicated for the treatment of depression, anxiety disorders, obsessive-compulsive disorders, and somatic symptom disorders. Though this child's condition is often associated with behavioral features that may improve with fluoxetine, it is not effective in controlling weight gain and is also approved in children > 8 years old.

**B - Octreotide** - Octreotide is an analog of the hormone somatostatin and is used to inhibit the effects of growth hormone, insulin, and glucagon (e.g., patients with acromegaly). Since this patient is already small for his age and octreotide has no confirmed beneficial effect in the treatment of excessive weight gain, this medication is not indicated.

**C - Laparoscopic gastric banding** - Laparoscopic gastric banding is a surgical procedure to help weight loss. By placing a band around the upper part of the stomach, food intake is restricted and a feeling of satiety is achieved with smaller amounts of food. However, surgery is reserved for individuals who are not able to lose weight with conservative methods, and is also not performed on young children.

**E - Phentermine** - Phentermine is a drug used as a short-term appetite suppressant in adults who are unable to achieve adequate weight loss through calorie restriction and exercise. Since it has a large range of adverse effects and has not been proven effective in controlling appetite or weight gain in individuals with hereditary syndromes, as is likely in this patient, phentermine is not indicated.

**F - Levothyroxine** - Levothyroxine is indicated for the treatment of individuals with hypothyroidism. Common clinical features include fatigue, cold, dry skin, weight gain, and cold intolerance. Though this patient shows some symptoms consistent with hypothyroidism, the degree of weight gain and possible osteoporosis (arm fractured twice after minor trauma) cannot be explained by this diagnosis.

