### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - “As you may already know, Native Americans have statistically higher rates of diabetes. Therefore, I would like to discuss screening options for high blood sugar with you today.”** - Native Americans have the highest prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus among race groups in the United States, the reasons for which are a combination of genetic and socioeconomic factors. According to the American Diabetes Association (ADA) and USPSTF, patients with an elevated BMI who are between 40 and 70 years of age should undergo regular screening for type 2 diabetes mellitus. All patients with at least one additional risk factor for type 2 diabetes mellitus should undergo screening even before 40 years of age. While smoking, diet, and alcohol use are risk factors that are generally assessed in routine health maintenance examinations, social and genetic determinants of health such as Native American ancestry are less commonly assessed, often due to poor access to care and provider negligence with regard to minority groups. Poor screening, therefore, contributes to a higher burden of disease in not only Native Americans but also other minorities, such as African Americans, Hispanics, and Asian Americans.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - “At this time, there is nothing to worry about. Have a great day.”** - This patient's clinical presentation is normal as he has no complaints and a normal physical examination. However, Native American ancestry is associated with an increased risk for certain conditions, and patients within this population should receive the corresponding counseling and screening necessary. Furthermore, it is recommended that, prior to the end of the visit, the physician reminds the patient to schedule an appropriate follow-up appointment.

**C - “Actually, I would like to perform a fecal occult blood test on a stool sample as you have a high risk of developing cancer because of your genetic background.”** - While there is a correlation between higher rates of colorectal cancer and Native American ancestry, the causes of this are complex and not fully established. Inequities in access to colorectal screening may be the primary driver for this disparity. The United States Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening for colorectal cancer in all asymptomatic adults between 45 and 75 years of age who have an average risk (e.g., no inflammatory bowel disease, adenomatous polyps, or family history of an inherited cancer syndrome). Colonoscopy every 10 years is an appropriate strategy. Since this patient is only 38 years of age and does not have significant risk factors for colorectal cancer, screening is not currently indicated. In addition, it is inappropriate to tell this patient he has a high risk of malignancy without providing context, as it will likely increase patient anxiety.

**D - “Please fill out a short questionnaire about addictions before you leave today.”** - While recreational drug and alcohol use are a matter of concern in Native American communities, it is inappropriate to assume an addiction from this patient's race alone. The United States Preventive Services Task Force recommends that all adults should be screened for excessive alcohol use, but since this patient reports not drinking alcohol or taking recreational drugs, additional screening is unwarranted. Moreover, physicians should show approach potentially sensitive topics delicately and avoid being confrontational by opening with a term like “addiction” and requesting that the patient fill out a questionnaire before obtaining his willingness to be screened.

**E - “Because of your ancestry, I suggest we do a 24-hour blood pressure measurement to evaluate you for hypertension.”** - While there is a correlation between higher rates of hypertension and Native American ancestry, it has not yet been established whether this is a socially determined health risk (e.g., diet), a genetic predisposition, or the result of confounders (e.g., inadequate health care availability). At this time, there is no recommendation for intensified screening for hypertension in Native American persons. Furthermore, there is no reason to suspect hypertension in this patient who has normal blood pressure measurements.

