### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Flumazenil** - Flumazenil is a benzodiazepine (GABAA receptor) antagonist used for the treatment of benzodiazepine overdose. Since flumazenil may precipitate withdrawal seizures in patients who have developed benzodiazepine dependence, it should only be considered in the case of significant respiratory depression. This patient with a GCS score < 8 and respiratory depression requiring endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation has severe respiratory depression. Respiratory depression in benzodiazepine overdose is usually mild (which helps to distinguish it from opioid intoxication) but can be especially severe when benzodiazepines are combined with other respiratory depressants such as alcohol or TCAs.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hemoperfusion** - Extracorporeal therapies (e.g., hemofiltration, hemodialysis, hemoperfusion) can be performed to treat poisoning only if the toxin has a volume of distribution that is < 1 L/kg (e.g., metformin, valproic acid, lithium, barbiturates). Extracorporeal therapies are not very effective in the case of benzodiazepine overdose because benzodiazepines have a volume of distribution that is > 1 L/kg as a result of their very high lipid solubility.

**C - Fomepizole** - Fomepizole therapy is indicated for methanol or ethylene glycol poisoning, which can also manifest with altered mental status. However, patients with methanol or ethylene glycol poisoning are usually tachypneic (in an attempt to compensate for metabolic acidosis). Moreover, the empty pill bottles found next to the patient suggest a different pharmacological overdose.

**D - Sodium bicarbonate** - Sodium bicarbonate can be used to treat severe metabolic acidosis (e.g., ethylene glycol poisoning), to counter the effect of cardiotoxic drugs with sodium-channel blocking properties (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants), and to hasten removal of drugs that are acidic and eliminated by urine (e.g., phenobarbital, salicylates). Benzodiazepines are weak bases that neither cause metabolic acidosis nor block sodium channels, and they are predominantly eliminated by hepatic metabolism. Administration of sodium bicarbonate would not be the first-line therapy in benzodiazepine reversal.

**E - Dextrose** - Intravenous dextrose is indicated in case of hypoglycemia, which can manifest with altered mental status as seen in this patient. However, intravenous dextrose would most likely be unnecessary in this patient because benzodiazepines are not known to cause hypoglycemia. Furthermore, the patient does not have known risk factors for hypoglycemia such as diabetes mellitus, chronic alcohol abuse, or liver disease.

**F - Naloxone** - Naloxone is a competitive μ-opioid receptor antagonist used to treat opioid overdose. Opioids can cause altered consciousness, lethargy, and respiratory depression if overdosed, all of which are seen in this patient. However, opioid intoxication would typically manifest with bradypnea that is more severe than what is seen in this patient, as well as with hypotension, hypothermia, and possibly seizures. Moreover, miosis would typically be seen on physical examination, rather than the normal pupils observed here.

