### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Adrenal vein sampling** - Adrenal venous sampling is indicated in patients with primary hyperaldosteronism who opt for surgical management and have a normal CT, bilateral adrenal abnormalities on CT, or a unilateral abnormality in a patient over age 35 – as in this patient. The purpose of the test is to confirm that the nodule seen on CT is, in fact, the cause of his primary hyperaldosteronism and not simply an incidental finding. If the nodule were an incidental finding – not an uncommon finding in patients over age 35 – then removal of the nodule or unilateral adrenalectomy would likely not be curative.

Image File: 522-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59107fef388d2.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - MRI of the abdomen and pelvis** - MRI is a confirmatory test that can be used to detect adrenal abnormalities in patients with suspected primary hyperaldosteronism. However, this patient already has a positive CT scan, so that an MRI would not provide additional information. Furthermore, CT is generally the imaging modality of choice for primary hyperaldosteronism since it has superior resolution in this setting than MRI.

**B - Spironolactone therapy** - Aldosterone receptor antagonists such as spironolactone and eplerenone are a common treatment option for primary hyperaldosteronism. Eplerenone is generally preferred over spironolactone because it has fewer side effects (e.g., gynecomastia). Medical therapy would be indicated if a patient opts against surgery, is a poor surgical candidate, or has bilateral adrenal disease (bilateral hyperplasia). Since this patient prefers surgical intervention, spironolactone therapy is not indicated.

**C - Triamterene therapy** - Triamterene could be used as supplemental therapy in hyperaldosteronism, as it acts at the aldosterone-sensitive sodium channel of the collecting tubule. However, this would not be a first-line medical therapy because triamterene does not block the harmful effects of hyperaldosteronism outside of the kidney (e.g., the cardiovascular system). In addition, this patient has opted for surgical treatment over medical management.

**D - Right adrenalectomy** - Unilateral adrenalectomy is the treatment of choice for primary aldosteronism due to unilateral adenoma/hyperplasia. However, this patient requires confirmatory testing that his disease is due to that nodule before he should undergo surgery.

**E - Fludrocortisone suppression test** - Fludrocortisone suppression testing can be used to confirm the diagnosis of primary hyperaldosteronism when initial screening labs (plasma aldosterone, renin, and potassium concentrations) are only mildly abnormal. This test is rarely performed presently as its sensitivity and specificity are comparable to oral or IV salt-loading test, but fludrocortisone suppression testing requires 4–5 days of hospitalization. A fludrocortisone suppression test is not required in this patient because his diagnosis of primary hyperaldosteronism is already confirmed.

**G - Bilateral adrenalectomy** - Bilateral adrenalectomy is not indicated in patients with primary hyperaldosteronism as it necessitates lifelong glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid therapy, the risks of which outweigh the benefits of the surgery. In cases of primary aldosteronism caused by bilateral adrenal disease, medical therapy with aldosterone receptor antagonists (e.g., spironolactone) is the treatment of choice. In addition, this patient's CT indicates a unilateral adrenal adenoma, so that bilateral adrenalectomy would certainly not be indicated.

