### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Administration of insulin** - Exogenous insulin does not cross the placenta and is the preferred agent for treatment of gestational diabetes mellitus if diet and exercise modification are not sufficient. Gestational diabetes increases the risk of fetal macrosomia and, consequently, shoulder dystocia during vaginal delivery. Shoulder dystocia may result in an upper brachial plexus palsy. Neonatal hypoglycemia is caused by hyperinsulinemia, which occurs in response to maternal hyperglycemia during pregnancy.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administration of folic acid** - Folate deficiency during pregnancy increases the risk of neural tube defects (e.g., spina bifida, meningomyelocele, anencephaly, and encephalocele). Folate deficiency is not associated with macrosomia or hypoglycemia, and folic acid supplementation would not have prevented this patient's current symptoms.

**B - Avoidance of soft cheeses** - Avoidance of soft cheeses and unpasteurized dairy during pregnancy is recommended to prevent infection with Listeria monocytogenes. Congenital Listeria infection can lead to granulomatosis infantiseptica and/or meningitis, as well as many other nonspecific symptoms, such as respiratory distress, fever, lethargy, difficulty feeding, and diarrhea. This patient's presentation is not consistent with congenital listeriosis, and avoidance of soft cheeses would not have prevented his current symptoms.

**C - Administration of penicillin** - Penicillin is recommended for the treatment of prenatal Syphilis infection in order to prevent congenital syphilis. Early congenital syphilis is characterized by hepatomegaly, jaundice, rhinorrhea, and skeletal abnormalities. Late congenital syphilis is characterized by facial abnormalities (e.g., saddle nose, frontal bossing), dental abnormalities (e.g., Hutchinson teeth, mulberry molars), interstitial keratitis, sensorineural hearing loss, and saber shin. This patient's presentation is not consistent with congenital syphilis.

**E - Abstinence from alcohol** - Prenatal alcohol exposure is associated with intrauterine growth restriction, developmental delay, and congenital birth defects such as microcephaly, midfacial hypoplasia, and cardiac defects (e.g., ventricular septal defect). Alcohol exposure is not associated with macrosomia, so abstinence would not have prevented this patient's current symptoms.

**F - Abstinence from cocaine** - In-utero exposure to cocaine causes vasoconstriction and increases risk of intrauterine growth restriction and morphologic defects in brain development. This can lead to decreased levels of arousal and developmental delay. The macrosomia seen in this patient is not consistent with cocaine exposure. Avoidance of cocaine would not have prevented this patient's current symptoms.

**G - Avoidance of cat feces** - Avoiding exposure to cat feces (e.g., the cleaning of a pet's litter box) during pregnancy is recommended to prevent infection with Toxoplasma gondii. The classic triad of congenital toxoplasmosis includes chorioretinitis (a form of posterior uveitis), diffuse intracranial calcifications, and hydrocephalus. This patient's presentation is not consistent with congenital toxoplasmosis, and avoidance of cat feces would not have prevented this patient's current symptoms.

**H - Vaccination against rubella** - Vaccination against rubella is recommended to prevent congenital rubella syndrome. The classic triad of symptoms associated with congenital rubella syndrome consists of cataracts, bilateral sensorineural hearing loss, and cardiac defects. A “blueberry muffin” rash may also be present. Rubella infection during pregnancy may result in intrauterine growth restriction, but it is not known to cause macrosomia.

