### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Release of thyroid hormone from damaged follicular cells** - Postpartum thyroiditis (PPT) is caused by a subacute autoimmune inflammation of the thyroid gland that results in lymphocytic infiltration, destruction of the follicular cells, and subsequent release of thyroid hormones. Affected individuals most commonly present with symptoms of hyperthyroidism, followed by a hypothyroid phase due to the exhaustion of thyroglobulin stores and the inhibition of TSH secretion by high concentrations of serum thyroid hormones (T3 and T4). As the inflammation remits, the follicles regenerate and hormone synthesis resumes, reestablishing the euthyroid state. Although the sequence of hyperthyroidism followed by hypothyroidism is typical, isolated transient hyper- or hypothyroidism also occurs. Physical examination of the thyroid gland can be normal or show a painless goiter, as seen in this patient. Radioimmunoassay shows thyroid peroxidase antibodies in approx. 60% of patients and is classically negative for TSH receptor antibodies (TRAbs), which helps differentiate PPT from Graves disease.

Risk factors for PPT include autoimmune disorders (e.g., type 1 diabetes mellitus), positive antithyroid peroxidase antibodies, and a history of PPT. PPT is usually self-limiting, but TSH values should be monitored because affected individuals have an increased risk of developing permanent hypothyroidism.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hyperplasia of thyrotropic pituitary cells** - Hyperplasia of thyrotropic pituitary cells leads to increased secretion of TSH, causing hyperthyroidism. This patient, however, has decreased serum concentrations of TSH. Moreover, decreased thyroid blood flow and increased ESR are not expected in patients with hyperplasia of the thyrotropic pituitary cells.

**B - Granulomatous inflammation of the thyroid gland** - Granulomatous inflammation is seen in DeQuervain thyroiditis, which can manifest with symptoms of hyperthyroidism, increased ESR, and decreased blood flow on thyroid ultrasound, all of which are seen in this patient. However, affected individuals typically have a painful rather than painless goiter and often have fever and a history of recent upper respiratory infection, none of which is seen in this patient.

**C - Production of human chorionic gonadotropin by a gestational trophoblastic neoplasm** - The production of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) by gestational trophoblastic neoplasms (e.g., choriocarcinoma) can manifest with features of hyperthyroidism due to the structural similarity between HCG and TSH (identical alpha subunit). The binding of HCG to the TSH receptors leads to increased secretion of thyroid hormones and a drop in TSH concentrations because of negative feedback. However, choriocarcinoma is not associated with a decrease in thyroid blood flow or increased ESR. Furthermore, this condition typically manifests with postpartum vaginal bleeding and inadequate uterine regression after delivery, neither of which is seen here.

**E - Binding of thyroid stimulating antibodies to thyrotropin receptors** - Thyrotropin receptor antibodies (TRAbs) are most commonly seen in Graves disease, which manifests with hyperthyroidism, is associated with other autoimmune disorders (e.g., type 1 diabetes mellitus), and can be triggered by pregnancy. However, ultrasound of the thyroid gland in Graves disease typically shows increased rather than decreased thyroid blood flow. Furthermore, this condition is not associated with an increased ESR.

**F - Somatic activating mutation of the thyrotropin receptor gene** - An activating somatic mutation of the thyrotropin receptor is seen in toxic multinodular goiter (TMNG), which causes hyperthyroidism and painless goiter, both of which are seen in this patient. However, TMNG does not cause an increase in ESR, and hyperfunctioning nodules in TMNG typically have increased rather than decreased vascularity. Furthermore, physical examination and thyroid ultrasound of patients with TMNG would reveal a nodular thyroid gland, which is not seen here.

