### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Pituitary microadenoma** - Endogenous hypercortisolism is most often caused by a pituitary microadenoma (∼ 75% of cases), in which case it is referred to as ACTH-dependent Cushing syndrome, or Cushing disease. This patient presents with the classic features of excess glucocorticoid production, including central obesity, thin, easily bruisable skin, stretch marks, proximal muscle weakness and atrophy, hypertension, and hyperglycemia. His hyperpigmentation (e.g., darkening of mucous membranes and skin creases) is a unique feature of Cushing disease that results from increased production of ACTH, which is cleaved from the same precursor as melanocyte-stimulating hormone.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Adrenal adenoma** - Adrenal adenomas can also cause endogenous hypercortisolism, in which case it is referred to as ACTH-independent hypercortisolism (or primary hypercortisolism). However, hyperpigmentation of the skin creases and mucous membranes is not a feature of primary hypercortisolism. In addition, adrenal adenomas are rare; there is a much more common cause of endogenous hypercortisolism.

**C - Decreased thyroid size** - Decreased thyroid size can be seen in Hashimoto thyroiditis. Patients with hypothyroidism can present with weight gain, difficulty sleeping, and lethargy. Decreased thyroid hormone can also increase prolactin levels and lead to decreased libido, as seen in this patient, but other features in this patient, particularly the stretch marks, muscle atrophy, hyperpigmentation, and hyperglycemia, are more consistent with Cushing syndrome.

**D - Multiple kidney cysts** - Multiple kidney cysts are seen in polycystic kidney disease (PKD), which can also cause hypertension. However, other symptoms such as abdominal and/or flank pain, recurrent urinary tract infections, and chronic renal failure would also be expected. Furthermore, hyperglycemia and hyperpigmentation are not seen in PKD, making an alternative diagnosis more likely.

**E - Adrenal carcinoma** - Adrenal carcinomas can also cause endogenous hypercortisolism, in which case it is referred to as ACTH-independent hypercortisolism. Patients with adrenal carcinoma present similarly to those with benign lesions (either pituitary or adrenal in origin), with central obesity, thin, easily bruisable skin, stretch marks, and proximal muscle weakness and atrophy. However, adrenal carcinomas are rare in adults and would not be associated with hyperpigmentation.

**F - Kidney tumor** - Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) can cause secondary hypercortisolism through ectopic ACTH production as a paraneoplastic syndrome. Although RCC is the most common type of kidney tumor in adults, it rarely presents as Cushing syndrome. Moreover, this patient does not have a history of hematuria or any other manifestations (flank pain or mass) consistent with RCC.

**G - Pulmonary tumor** - Small cell lung cancer can lead to ectopic ACTH production as a paraneoplastic syndrome, which would also present with central obesity, acne, and thin, easily bruisable skin with stretch marks on the abdomen. As a smoker, this patient is at higher risk for lung cancer. However, symptoms of lung cancer like cough, hemoptysis, dyspnea, and chest pain are missing in this patient, and there are much more common causes of endogenous hypercortisolism.

