### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Propranolol** - Propranolol is indicated for the immediate control of symptoms in patients with hyperthyroidism. This patient with anxiety, tremor, digital swelling, retraction of the eyelid, and irregular heartbeats most likely has hyperthyroidism. Thyroid hormones affect cardiac myocytes directly and also stimulate proliferation of beta-adrenergic receptors, which can cause cardiac arrhythmias as seen in this patient. Beta blockers decrease the adrenergic tone and therefore reduce tachycardia, control hypertension, improve muscle weakness, tremor, and neuropsychiatric symptoms. Thus, this patient should be started on a beta blocker (propranolol) as soon as possible.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Propylthiouracil** - Propylthiouracil (PTU) is an antithyroid drug that is used in the medical treatment of hyperthyroidism, which this patient shows sign and symptoms of. However, symptomatic treatment should be started for immediate control of symptoms. Furthermore, PTU is usually indicated during the first trimester of pregnancy, whereas methimazole is usually the preferred antithyroid drug for other cases because of its long duration of action and potency.

**C - Digoxin** - Main indications for digoxin treatment are atrial fibrillation (AF) and heart failure in treatment-resistant cases. Although this patient most likely has AF, it is accompanied by symptoms of thyrotoxicosis (tremor, anxiety, retraction of the eyelid). Hyperthyroid AF is usually resistant to the typical dose of digoxin, which requires a larger dose and thereby increases the risk of digoxin toxicity. Moreover, digoxin does not provide relief of the other manifestations of adrenergic hyperstimulation.

**D - Amiodarone** - Amiodarone is used in the treatment of ventricular tachycardia and persisting ventricular fibrillation (VF) after unsuccessful defibrillation, as well as the long-term treatment of refractory supraventricular arrhythmia (atrial fibrillation). Because of the high levels of iodine in amiodarone, it may aggravate pre-existing thyroid conditions. In this patient, who shows symptoms of supraventricular arrhythmia (palpitations and irregularly irregular pulse) and hyperthyroidism (anxiety, tremor, digital swelling, and retraction of the eyelid), amiodarone should only be considered if other treatment options fail.

**E - Warfarin** - Warfarin is an oral anticoagulant. Patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) are at increased risk of developing thromboembolic complications, which is why long-term anticoagulation is indicated when CHA2DS2-VASc score is ≥ 2 or when AF is caused by valvular disease. This patient's CHA2DS2-VASc score is 1 and although she presents with symptoms of AF (irregularly irregular pulse) and a systolic ejection murmur, her murmur is most likely due to the hyperdynamic circulation resulting from the increased adrenergic tone.

**F - Diltiazem** - Diltiazem is classified as a class IV antiarrhythmic drug and is used to achieve rate control in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF), which is this patient's most likely arrhythmia. However, another therapeutic option is more commonly used and would also relieve thyrotoxic symptoms, such as tremor and anxiety.

