### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Venlafaxine** - SNRIs (e.g., venlafaxine) or SSRIs (e.g., sertraline) are indicated as first-line medications for patients with PTSD who fail to improve after trauma-focused cognitive behavioral therapy, as seen in this patient. SSRIs and SNRIs are effective in symptom reduction and treatment of concurrent psychiatric conditions (e.g., major depressive disorder) in patients with PTSD. Patients who respond poorly should be considered for management with a different SSRI or SNRI. If these treatment options are insufficient, second generation antipsychotics (e.g., quetiapine, risperidone) can be considered to augment SSRIs and SNRIs or as monotherapy.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Lorazepam** - Benzodiazepines (BDZs) like lorazepam should generally be avoided in patients with PTSD. BDZs have a high addiction potential and there is a lack of evidence supporting their benefits in the treatment of individuals with PTSD.

**B - Prazosin** - Prazosin is used in patients with PTSD with significant sleep disturbance or nightmares, neither of which is seen in this patient. Prazosin therapy is therefore not suitable for this patient.

**C - Quetiapine** - Second generation antipsychotics like quetiapine can be used in patients with PTSD who fail to improve after two trials with different first-line medications and trauma-focused cognitive behavioral therapy. A different medication would be indicated as the first-line treatment for this patient.

**E - Risperidone** - Second generation antipsychotics like risperidone can be used in patients with PTSD who fail to improve after two trials with different first-line medications and trauma-focused cognitive behavioral therapy. A different medication would be indicated as the first-line treatment for this patient.

