### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Mammography** - Mammography is the recommended imaging modality for the evaluation of a breast lump in women older than 30 years of age. Along with clinical assessment, it is the initial step in breast cancer diagnosis and allows deciding whether a biopsy is further required or not.

Image File: 531-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ac9ed16c2bf.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - MRI scan of the breast** - MRI scan of the breast is indicated for the workup of a suspicious breast lump when routine imaging tests are inconclusive or as a screening tool when the patient has an increased risk for breast cancer (e.g., a BRCA mutation carrier). However, none of these conditions apply.

**C - Fine-needle aspiration** - Fine-needle aspiration is the recommended diagnostic modality for evaluating a nonsuspicious breast mass (e.g., young patient, soft movable mass), but is performed after imaging. This patient also already has signs concerning for malignancy.

**D - Core needle biopsy** - Although core needle biopsy is part of the workup of breast lumps when there is suspicion of malignancy, it is performed after imaging.

**E - BRCA gene testing** - BRCA gene testing is recommended for evaluating breast cancer in patients with a family history of breast, ovarian, tubal, or peritoneal cancer, or in some patients after breast cancer is diagnosed (e.g., triple negative or bilateral breast cancer). However, none of these conditions apply.

**F - Monthly self-breast exams** - A monthly self-breast exam is not a recommended strategy in this patient since she has a breast lump concerning for breast cancer, which requires further work up.

**G - Ultrasonography of the breast** - Ultrasound is the recommended initial imaging test for a self-palpated breast lump in women younger than 30 years of age because it offers higher sensitivity than mammogram. Young women have higher density breast tissue, which makes the detection of breast abnormalities in mammogram more difficult.

