### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Breast-conserving therapy and sentinel lymph node biopsy** - Breast-conserving therapy and sentinel node biopsy are diagnostic and therapeutic procedures used as a first-line intervention in patients with newly diagnosed invasive ductal carcinoma. All patients who undergo lumpectomy require postoperative radiation to the whole breast to minimize the risk of recurrence. Sentinel node biopsy is necessary to stage the cancer, which will determine subsequent treatment. Moreover, given the HER2-positive immunohistochemical staining, this patient will benefit from adjuvant systemic chemotherapy in the form of trastuzumab.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Tamoxifen therapy** - Tamoxifen is a selective estrogen receptor modulator that is primarily used in patients with estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer, but this patient's stain is estrogen receptor negative.

**C - Trastuzumab therapy** - Trastuzumab is used as adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with operable, HER2 receptor-positive breast cancer, as is the case here. Although this patient should eventually undergo trastuzumab therapy, another step of management is indicated at this time.

**D - Whole-body PET/CT** - A whole-body PET/CT scan is required in all patients with stage IIIA or higher disease to assess for metastases. Additionally, patients who present with signs of metastatic disease, such as abdominal pain, elevated LFTs, or palpable abdominal masses, may benefit from a whole-body PET/CT scan. However, the stage of this patient's cancer has not yet been determined and she does not have any signs of metastatic disease, so a whole-body PET-CT would not be indicated at this time.

**E - Bilateral mastectomy with lymph node dissection** - A bilateral mastectomy with lymph node dissection is commonly performed in patients with bilateral disease, or in patients who have a BRCA gene mutation. Although a BRCA mutation has not explicitly been ruled out in this patient, BRCA mutation carriers generally have a personal and/or family history of breast, ovarian, tubal, or peritoneal cancer, and may also have more advanced disease at presentation (triple-negative or bilateral breast cancer). This patient does not have any of these conditions, which makes a BRCA mutation unlikely. In addition, a HER2 mutation has already been identified as the likely culprit.

**F - Bone scan** - A bone scan is commonly obtained in patients who present with bone pain or elevated alkaline phosphatase in the setting of newly diagnosed breast cancer, which may be indicative of metastatic disease. This patient does not have either of these findings.,

