### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Vaginal pessary** - Conservative treatment is the best initial step for managing patients with mildly symptomatic POP in the absence of urinary or defecatory dysfunction. The most commonly used conservative methods include vaginal pessaries and pelvic floor muscle training (e.g., Kegel exercises). Patients should also be advised on lifestyle modifications that help prevent the progression of POP through the reduction of intraabdominal pressure, such as weight loss, smoking cessation (to prevent chronic cough), and constipation treatment (to prevent straining). If the symptoms of POP persist or worsen despite conservative management, surgical treatment is indicated. Asymptomatic POP does not require any treatment.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hysterectomy** - Hysterectomy, typically performed with concomitant transvaginal apical suspension, is a treatment option for POP with severe symptoms (e.g., urinary or defecatory dysfunction) and/or after unsuccessful first-line treatment of mild POP. This patient is only mildly symptomatic and has not yet received any treatment for her uterine prolapse. Therefore, a different intervention is more appropriate at this time.

**B - Topical estrogen therapy** - Topical estrogen is the first-line treatment option for moderate to severe atrophic vaginitis, which commonly occurs in menopause and may be concomitant to POP. Atrophic vaginitis typically manifests with vaginal soreness, dyspareunia, and vaginal discharge, none of which are seen in this patient. Topical estrogen is not indicated in patients with POP who do not have concomitant atrophic vaginitis.

**C - Transvaginal diverticulectomy** - Transvaginal diverticulectomy is the treatment of choice for symptomatic urethral diverticula (UD), which most commonly develops in women aged 20–60 years. Furthermore, a history of multiple vaginal deliveries, which this patient has, is among the risk factors for UD. However, lower back pain and the protrusion of the cervix during Valsalva maneuver are not consistent with UD. UD typically manifests with dysuria, dyspareunia, postvoid urine dribbling, and a tender anterior vaginal wall mass, none of which are seen here.

**D - Colporrhaphy** - Colporrhaphy is a highly effective treatment option for some types of POP, such as cystocele and rectocele, both of which can manifest with vaginal fullness and back pain. However, cystocele and rectocele are typically characterized by urinary and defecatory dysfunction, respectively, neither of which are seen here. This patient's clinical and physical examination findings are consistent with uterine prolapse, for which colporrhaphy is not indicated.

