### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Consult a multidisciplinary team specialized in gender identity services** - Assessment and management of children and adolescents who present with gender dysphoria should be made by multidisciplinary teams comprised of medical and mental health professionals who specialize in gender identity. The long-term management of gender dysphoria should be individualized and multidisciplinary, involving a combination of psychotherapy, social gender transition, hormone therapy, and gender-affirming surgery. Before starting any interventions, however, patients should first be evaluated by the multidisciplinary team.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Initiate cognitive-behavioral therapy and prescribe a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor** - Cognitive-behavioral therapy and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are appropriate for patients with anxiety disorders, which are common among adolescents with gender dysphoria. This adolescent, however, has not reported any symptoms that suggest an anxiety disorder. A different next step is indicated in the treatment of this patient with gender dysphoria.

**B - Initiate male-to-female transition with conjugated estrogen** - Male-to-female transition with estrogen is a partially reversible physical intervention used in individuals who wish to align their physical appearance and gender identity. It is not the first step in the management of patients with gender dysphoria. Physical interventions for adolescents, e.g., puberty blockers, should follow a staged approach so that patients have time to explore their gender identity and to assimilate the effects of earlier interventions before undergoing physical ones. Another measure should be taken for this adolescent before initiating any physical interventions.

**D - Refer the patient for gender-affirming surgery** - Gender-affirming surgery is used in individuals who wish to align their physical appearance and gender identity, including individuals with gender dysphoria. However, this is an irreversible physical intervention and should only be performed after other steps have been taken. Specifically, surgery can be considered after completion of at least one year of fully reversible hormone therapy and after reaching the legal age to give consent for medical procedures. This patient has not reached either of these milestones; therefore, genital-affirming surgery is not appropriate at this point.

**E - Reassure the mother that gender identities can be fluid until late adolescence** - Gender identities can be fluid and subject to change in early childhood, so it may be appropriate to defer therapy for young children with gender dysphoria. However, gender identity is established around 3 years of age; experimentation and exploration of a gender identity that does not conform to the sex assigned at birth and that extends into puberty are unlikely to subside and patients should not delay appropriate care, as this may result in severe psychosocial consequences.

