### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Hysteroscopy with potential adhesiolysis** - This patient presents with secondary infertility that is most likely due to the formation of intrauterine adhesions, also known as Asherman syndrome. The condition should be suspected in women with a history of infertility following dilation and curettage. If there is high suspicion for this condition, then the patient should receive endometrial evaluation by hysteroscopy, which enables direct visualization of intrauterine adhesions and simultaneous adhesiolysis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Measurement of mid-luteal progesterone concentration** - Mid-luteal progesterone concentrations are determined to assess ovarian function in women with a history of infertility and suspected anovulation. Anovulation can be caused by primary hypogonadism (e.g., polycystic ovary syndrome, primary ovarian insufficiency) or secondary hypogonadism (e.g., hyperprolactinemia due to prolactinoma). Anovulation typically results in a lack of menses that sometimes alternates with episodes of irregular, prolonged, and/or heavy bleeding; it does not usually cause regular but light bleeding.

**B - Measurement of antisperm antibody concentration** - Antisperm antibody concentrations are measured in couples with a history of infertility when other causes have been ruled out. Antibodies can be present in blood, semen, and/or vaginal fluids and can significantly reduce fertility. Though antisperm antibodies could have newly developed in either this patient or her partner, her history of dilation and curettage and one successful prior pregnancies suggest a different and more likely cause of infertility.

**C - Estrogen/progestin withdrawal test** - An estrogen/progestin withdrawal test is used to evaluate women with amenorrhea or hypomenorrhea. This test takes several weeks to administer because it involves 35 days of estrogen therapy with additional progestin therapy in the last 10 days; it should not be performed for this patient because it will lead to a delay in diagnosis for her condition compared to other modalities of evaluation.

**D - Measurement of serum FSH and LH concentrations** - Measurement of serum FSH and LH concentrations is indicated in the evaluation of secondary amenorrhea, which can cause infertility. However, this patient still has regular (but light) menses; her history of dilation and curettage and two successful prior pregnancies suggest a different and more likely cause of infertility.

**F - Dilation and curettage** - Dilation and curettage is used to remove endometrial tissue and evacuate the products of conception. It is also used for diagnostic purposes (e.g., obtaining tissue samples from the uterus for histological examination), but is not indicated in the workup of infertility.

