### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Repeat ultrasonography in 6 months** - Patients like this one with asymptomatic uterine leiomyomas do not require treatment, as leiomyomas often remain stable or regress on their own. These patients can be followed up approximately every 6–12 months with symptom monitoring and pelvic ultrasonography for evaluation of leiomyoma growth. Patients should be counseled to contact their physician earlier if new symptoms develop, such as menstrual abnormalities (e.g., menorrhagia), reproductive dysfunction (e.g., infertility, dyspareunia), and bulk symptoms (e.g., pelvic discomfort, urinary frequency, constipation). Treatment should be considered in patients with symptomatic leiomyomas.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Replace copper IUD with progestin-releasing IUD** - Progestin-releasing IUDs are indicated for patients with symptomatic uterine leiomyomas, as they effectively reduce blood loss and may reduce the size of uterine leiomyomas. As this patient is asymptomatic and has a uterine leiomyoma that is not distorting the endometrial cavity, replacing the copper IUD with a progestin-releasing IUD is unnecessary.

**C - Remove copper IUD and prescribe oral contraceptive therapy** - Combined oral contraceptives may be used to lessen blood loss in patients with symptomatic uterine leiomyomas. This patient, however, is asymptomatic. In addition, there is no need to remove the IUD because its positioning is not compromised by the intramural leiomyoma.

**D - Perform hysteroscopy with endometrial biopsy** - Hysteroscopy with endometrial biopsy should be performed in patients with suspected uterine malignancy (e.g., leiomyosarcoma). In patients with a known history of uterine leiomyoma, malignancy should be suspected if they present with significant bulk symptoms (e.g., pelvic pain) and bleeding that is out of proportion to uterine size. Although this patient has a history of leiomyoma, she is asymptomatic; therefore, hysteroscopy with endometrial biopsy is not indicated.

While hysteroscopy alone can be performed in patients with submucosal leiomyomas to evaluate the extent of protrusion into the endometrial cavity, this patient has an intramural leiomyoma and is, therefore, unlikely to benefit from a hysteroscopic evaluation.

**E - Obtain MRI of the pelvis** - In patients with uterine leiomyomas, pelvic MRI can be used in the presurgical evaluation of potentially complicated surgical cases and to rule out differential diagnoses, such as adenomyosis and leiomyosarcoma. Since this patient is asymptomatic, surgery, and thus presurgical MRI, is not necessary. Moreover, since this patient's findings are highly suggestive of uterine leiomyoma and there are no typical findings of adenomyosis (e.g., asymmetric myometrial wall thickening and myometrial cysts on ultrasound) or leiomyosarcoma (e.g., abnormal uterine bleeding, pelvic pain, rapidly enlarging mass), a pelvic MRI is not needed to exclude these differentials.

