### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Cystocele** - This patient has a cystocele, a type of pelvic organ prolapse characterized by protrusion of the bladder behind the anterior vaginal wall and into the vaginal introitus. Cystoceles often prolapse further with maneuvers that increase intra-abdominal pressure (e.g., coughing). In addition, they typically cause urinary hesitancy and a sensation of pelvic fullness, as seen in this patient. Risk factors for cystocele include multiparity, low estrogen levels (e.g., after menopause), previous pelvic surgery (e.g., hysterectomy), and conditions that increase intra-abdominal pressure (e.g., obesity). Conservative treatment options include vaginal pessaries, weight loss, and Kegel exercises; surgery can be used if the patient declines conservative treatment or if it fails.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Uterine prolapse** - A uterine prolapse, which is most common in elderly women, can cause urinary hesitancy and a sensation of pelvic fullness. However, it does not manifest as a structure at the vaginal introitus that protrudes from the anterior vaginal wall. Instead, a pelvic examination would show a descent of the uterus into the vagina and, in severe cases, through the vaginal introitus.

Image File: 545-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_597f319a46c80.jpg

**B - Vaginal rhabdomyosarcoma** - Vaginal rhabdomyosarcoma is a malignant type of vaginal cancer that most commonly affects girls < 8 years of age; it is an unlikely diagnosis in this 79-year-old woman. In addition, this cancer does not typically cause urinary hesitancy or a sensation of pelvic fullness. Its classic appearance is a polypoid mass that resembles a bunch of grapes protruding through the vagina, not a structure at the vaginal introitus that protrudes from the anterior vaginal wall.

**D - Rectocele** - A rectocele, which is most common in elderly women, can cause a sensation of pelvic fullness. However, it does not typically cause urinary hesitancy. Further common symptoms of rectocele include constipation, sexual dysfunction, and fecal incontinence, none of which are seen in this patient. Moreover, rectoceles protrude from the posterior vaginal wall and into the vaginal introitus, not from the anterior vaginal wall.

**E - Uterine leiomyomata** - Uterine leiomyomata (fibroids) can cause urinary hesitancy and a sensation of pelvic fullness. However, they do not manifest as a structure at the vaginal introitus that protrudes from the anterior vaginal wall. Instead, pelvic bimanual examination typically shows an enlarged, firm, and irregularly-shaped uterus. In addition, this patient does not have other typical findings of fibroids, including hypermenorrhea, menorrhagia, and dysmenorrhea. Moreover, fibroids typically develop in women of reproductive age and are less likely to be seen in postmenopausal women.

