### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Cognitive behavioral therapy** - Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is the first-line treatment for specific phobias. Patients with specific phobias generally recognize that their fear is irrational or excessive and feel embarrassed as a result. Accordingly, they often develop strategies of avoiding the object of their phobia, e.g., calling in sick when the job requires flying. CBT involves exposure therapy and relaxation training that help patients develop cognitive and behavioral strategies to cope with their fears and reduce emotional distress in periods of anticipation or exposure to the phobic stimulus.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral paroxetine** - Oral paroxetine can be administered as a bridge in patients with specific phobias until first-line treatment is available or if patients prefer medication. However, there is limited evidence that SSRIs are effective in this condition.

**B - Oral alprazolam** - Alprazolam and other benzodiazepines are used to treat patients with specific phobias, but these drugs have a limited role in aviophobia. They are reserved for patients who prefer medication to other forms of treatment or as needed in situations where the phobia will only be encountered on rare occasions (e.g., if this patient had to fly only once every few years). It is also reasonable to use this medication as a bridge until a more permanent treatment can be established.

**C - Oral propranolol** - Oral propranolol is used in the management of social anxiety disorder (social phobia). It can be taken as needed 30–60 minutes prior to exposure to anxiety-inducing situation. However, there is no evidence that propranolol is effective in the management of specific phobias such as this patient's aviophobia.

**D - Observation** - Observation is not appropriate for this patient, whose aviophobia causes him clinically significant distress and impairment of occupational function.

