### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Provide reassurance and prescribe oral ibuprofen** - The first-line therapy for cyclical mastalgia in patients without evidence or risk factors for malignancy or inflammation consists of reassurance, oral analgesics (e.g., ibuprofen or acetaminophen), and supportive measures, including cold or warm compresses and support garments (e.g., well-fitting, soft bras). Topical analgesics (e.g., diclofenac gel) can also provide symptom relief. For patients who are on oral contraceptives or hormone replacement therapy, discontinuing or reducing the dose of these medications can be trialed. In patients with severe cyclical mastalgia that persists after 6 months of first-line therapy, tamoxifen should be considered as a second-line treatment. Breast imaging (ultrasound or mammography) is not routinely indicated in cyclical mastalgia. However, it can reduce patient anxiety.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Recommend rest and heat application** - Rest and heat application can be effective for the treatment of extramammary chest pain, e.g., pain caused by musculoskeletal or spinal disorders or trauma. This patient plays sports regularly, which can cause musculoskeletal injuries. However, extramammary chest pain does not typically follow a cyclical pattern and usually does not affect both sides equally. This patient's presentation is consistent with cyclical mastalgia, which requires a different next step in management.

**C - Perform bilateral mammography** - Bilateral mammography is indicated for the evaluation of breast examination findings that raise suspicion for malignancy (e.g., breast mass, skin changes, or nipple discharge) and breast cancer screening. However, this patient's breast examination was normal and, in the absence of risk factors (e.g., positive family history), breast cancer screening starts at 40 years of age, at the earliest. Furthermore, ultrasound, rather than mammography, is the preferred initial imaging modality in patients < 30 years of age, as the higher breast tissue density makes detection of breast abnormalities with mammography more difficult. Breast imaging is not routinely indicated in cyclical mastalgia, but it can help reassure patients who are concerned about a potential malignancy.

**D - Prescribe oral tamoxifen** - Oral tamoxifen is the preferred second-line therapy for cyclical mastalgia and should be considered if breast pain persists after 6 months of first-line treatment. This patient has not received any treatment yet, making a different step more appropriate at this time.

**E - Prescribe combined oral contraceptive** - Reducing the dose of or discontinuing, rather than starting, combined oral contraceptives (COCPs) can be trialed in patients with cyclical mastalgia. Some patients experience symptom relief after reducing the dose of estrogen. However, the effect varies from patient to patient and there is insufficient evidence that using or discontinuing COCPs exacerbates or relieves cyclical mastalgia.

