### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Tuboovarian abscess** - Tuboovarian abscess is a severe complication of PID characterized by the development of a confined inflammatory mass confined to the fallopian tubes and/or ovaries, which appears as a tender adnexal mass on physical examination. Ultrasonography is the best test for the diagnosis of a tuboovarian abscess and it typically shows a thick-walled, multiloculated cystic mass in the area of the adnexa, as observed in this patient. Tuboovarian abscess is a life-threatening condition that can be complicated by severe sepsis or spread to the adjacent organs (e.g., bladder, bowel) and should, therefore, be managed promptly. Treatment usually consists of broad-spectrum intraveneous antibiotic therapy and, in severe cases, surgical exploration.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Appendiceal abscess** - An appendiceal abscess can develop in patients with an untreated perforated appendix and is usually characterized by high-grade fever, a tender RLQ mass, and an increase in inflammatory markers. A thick-walled, multiloculated right adnexal mass on ultrasonography could also be observed in a patient with an appendiceal abscess due to the proximity of the appendix and uterine adnexa. However, an enlarged uterus, cervical tenderness, and bloody discharge would not be expected.

**C - Ovarian cancer** - Ovarian cancer can, in later stages, manifest with abdominal pain, nausea, and vaginal bleeding. However, this condition typically affects postmenopausal women (> 55 years of age) and ultrasonography would show solid components of the adnexal mass. This patient's signs of infection (e.g., fever, leukocytosis), age, and subacute presentation make PID a much more likely diagnosis.

**D - Ovarian torsion** - Ovarian torsion typically manifests with the sudden onset of unilateral lower abdominal pain, nausea, and a palpable adnexal mass. If torsion occurs as a complication of an ovarian cyst, ultrasonography may show evidence of an adnexal mass. However, further ultrasonographic findings (e.g., an enlarged, edematous ovary with decreased blood flow, a twisted vascular pedicle) would be expected. Furthermore, this patient's symptoms worsened gradually over 6 days and laboratory studies show signs of inflammation, neither of which can be explained by ovarian torsion.

**E - Ectopic pregnancy** - Ectopic pregnancy is a possible long-term complication of PID and manifests with lower abdominal pain, nausea, anorexia, and bloody cervical discharge. Individuals with PID who do not use consistent protection during sexual intercourse are at risk of ectopic pregnancy. However, this patient's last period was 10 days ago, while symptoms of an ectopic pregnancy usually develop at least 4–6 weeks after the last menstrual period. In addition, pelvic ultrasonography showed a thick-walled, multiloculated right adnexal mass rather than typical signs of ectopic pregnancy (e.g., a tubal ring sign).

**F - Ruptured ovarian cyst** - An ovarian cyst rupture typically occurs in women of reproductive age after an episode of vigorous activity or sexual intercourse and is characterized by sudden-onset lower abdominal pain, nausea, possible vaginal bleeding, and an adnexal mass on palpation in patients with large cysts. Although all of these symptoms are observed in this patient, they have developed gradually over 6 days, were not triggered by an event, and were accompanied by an increase in inflammatory markers, which is inconsistent with an ovarian cyst rupture. Furthermore, ultrasonography would most likely show free liquid in the pouch of Douglas in addition to an adnexal cystic mass.

