### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Nucleic acid amplification testing** - Nucleic acid amplification testing (NAAT) is highly sensitive and specific for C. trachomatis and N. gonorrhoeae and is thus the gold standard for screening for these infections. Genital chlamydia and gonorrhea may be asymptomatic but, if left untreated, can cause complications (e.g., infertility, pelvic inflammatory disease). Since the patient in this vignette is sexually active, it is recommended that she be screened for C. trachomatis and N. gonorrhoeae, even if she is asymptomatic.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Complete blood count** - A complete blood count would be required if the patient had any signs of an infection, inflammation, or anemia but is not necessary in a young individual with no symptoms.

**C - PAP smear** - The current recommendation for cervical cancer screening is a PAP smear every 3 years beginning at 21 years of age, regardless of the initiation of sexual activity. Cervical cancer is rare in women < 21 years of age. Moreover, detection of an abnormal PAP smear in this age group (e.g., due to a cervical infection/inflammation) may lead to over-treatment (e.g., surgical excision/laser/cryotherapy of the suspicious area of the cervix), which could adversely affect future child-bearing and cause unnecessary anxiety. Since the patient in this scenario is 17 years of age, a PAP smear is not recommended.

**D - Human papilloma virus vaccination** - In the US, vaccination against HPV is part of the routine immunization schedule. The vaccine is ideally administered between 11–12 years of age, preferably before any sexual contact to be most effective. Since the immunizations of this 17-year-old girl are up-to-date, it is highly likely that she has already received the vaccination against HPV.

**E - Rapid plasma reagin test** - The rapid plasma reagin test is a screening test for syphilis. Screening for syphilis in an asymptomatic patient is only indicated in certain high-risk groups, e.g., individuals who have sex without condoms with multiple partners or were recently diagnosed with an STI, sexually active men who have sex with men, HIV-positive individuals who are sexually active, commercial sex workers, and partners of patients with active syphilis, none of which applies to this patient.

**F - Herpes simplex virus 2 serology** - Herpes simplex virus type 2 infections may be asymptomatic and this patient is at risk because of her unprotected sexual activity. However, the CDC generally reserves HSV-2 screening for high-risk groups, including HIV positive patients, men who have sex with men, and patients recently diagnosed with an STI, none of which applies to this patient.

**G - Mammogram** - The United States Preventive Services Task Force recommends a screening mammogram every 2 years in women > 40 years of age in women with a higher than average risk of developing breast cancer. In women with an average risk of developing breast cancer, the recommended age to initiate breast cancer screening with a mammogram is 50 years. Since this patient has a maternal history of breast cancer, she is at a higher than average risk of developing breast cancer herself. However, the incidence of breast cancer is rare in women < 40 years of age. For this reason, routine screening for breast cancer is not recommended in a patient of this age.

