### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Oral contraceptive** - Oral contraceptives are recommended as the first-line therapy for women with hirsutism due to their ability to reduce circulating androgen levels. Estrogen-progestin contraceptives reduce androgen levels by suppression of circulating luteinizing hormone (LH) and stimulation of sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) levels.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Flutamide** - Flutamide may be used in the management of idiopathic hirsutism. However, it is not the first-line therapy in the treatment of hirsutism but rather a third-line antiandrogen considered only for patients who have been refractory to at least 6 months of monotherapy with another medication. Spironolactone is considered the first-line antiandrogen used in patients with refractory moderate to severe hirsutism, with finasteride and cyproterone acetate being the second-line antiandrogens.

**B - Prednisone** - Exogenous glucocorticoids like prednisone are used to prevent salt loss and virilization in children with 21-hydroxylase deficiency, the most common form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH). Prednisone suppresses hypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) production and, therefore, pituitary ACTH and adrenal androgen production. It is important to note that prednisone is not used in the treatment of hirsutism in CAH patients, as cyproterone acetate is more effective in women with nonclassic CAH. This patient has no clinical or laboratory evidence of CAH, and her presentation is rather suggestive of idiopathic hirsutism, for which another first-line medication is indicated.

**C - Leuprolide** - Leuprolide, a gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor agonist (GnRH agonist), inhibits ovarian androgen secretion and can therefore suppress male pattern hair growth. However, this therapy is not considered first-line management of idiopathic hirsutism and has a risk of estrogen deficiency.

**D - Ketoconazole** - Ketoconazole has been used to treat hirsutism in patients with PCOS as it attenuates serum androgen levels at low doses. It also inhibits ovarian steroidogenesis in vitro. However, ketoconazole is not the first-line therapy in treating patients with idiopathic hirsutism, such as this patient.

**F - Metformin** - Metformin is used in the management of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) to reduce circulating insulin levels. While effective in PCOS, metformin is not effective in treating patients with idiopathic hirsutism.

