### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Hospitalization** - Hospitalization is the most appropriate next step in management for patients with postpartum psychosis who are unable to care for themselves or their child, as is the case for this patient. Although hospitalization interferes with maternal-infant bonding, it reduces the risk of harm to the child. If the mother is allowed to spend time with her child, it should be done under close supervision. Pharmacotherapy typically includes a combination of a second-generation antipsychotic and a mood stabilizer.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Antipsychotic therapy** - Antipsychotic therapy is used to treat postpartum psychosis. However, this patient's hallucinations and agitation pose an imminent risk to the newborn and herself, so another step is more appropriate at this point before initiating antipsychotic therapy.

**B - Mood-stabilizing therapy** - Mood-stabilizing therapy is used to treat bipolar disorder and postpartum psychosis. This patient has a history of bipolar disorder and stopped her medication during her pregnancy, which should be restarted. However, her hallucinations and agitation pose an imminent risk to the newborn and herself, so another step is more appropriate at this point before reinitiating mood-stabilizing therapy.

**D - Cognitive-behavioral therapy** - Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) may be used as adjuvant treatment in the management of postpartum psychosis. However, CBT is typically only begun once psychotic symptoms have resolved. This patient still experiences psychotic symptoms, so CBT is not indicated at this time.

**E - Reassurance and outpatient follow-up** - Reassurance is recommended for postpartum blues, which typically manifests with mood changes, such as agitation. However, patients with postpartum blues usually only experience mild depressive symptoms and do not have hallucinations. Furthermore, postpartum blues typically develops within 2–3 days postpartum and resolves within 2 weeks, whereas this patient's symptoms began 2 weeks postpartum.

