### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Mammography** - In a woman with axillary lymphadenopathy of unknown etiology in whom there is a concern for breast malignancy, mammography and axillary lymph node biopsy should be performed even when there is no palpable breast mass. If the histology of the biopsy confirms the presence of adenocarcinoma or poorly differentiated carcinoma and if no mass is detected on mammography, occult breast cancer should be suspected. A breast MRI can be performed to further search for the location of the primary tumor.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - MRI of the breasts** - Breast MRI is recommended for the evaluation of axillary lymphadenopathy in patients with a high risk of breast cancer whose previous imaging tests have failed to detect any breast masses. This patient has not been investigated yet, so breast MRI would not be appropriate at this time.

**B - CT scan of the chest** - A CT scan of the chest is appropriate in the assessment of patients with suspected lung cancer. Although this patient's smoking history increases her risk of developing lung cancer, she currently presents with axillary lymphadenopathy, which should primarily raise concern for breast cancer, rather than lung cancer. A CT scan of the chest is not indicated in the initial diagnostic workup of a patient with suspected breast cancer.

A low-dose CT scan of the chest is recommended annually for screening of lung cancer in patients aged 50–80 years with a history of smoking (≥ 20 pack-years) within the past 15 years. This patient has smoked for 12 years; a CT scan of the chest is therefore not recommended as a screening modality.

**C - Reassure and follow-up in 1 month** - Reassurance and follow-up could be recommended in a patient with axillary lymphadenopathy whose workup findings support a self-limiting or benign cause of lymphadenopathy (e.g., viral infection). The nontender, firm, nonmobile lymphadenopathy raises concern for malignancy in this patient, so a different approach is more appropriate at this time.

**D - Excision of the mass** - Lymph node biopsy, rather than excision, is used to assess for breast cancer in patients with axillary lymphadenopathy without a clear etiology. Lymph node biopsy is performed together with another diagnostic procedure.

