### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Repeat Pap smear in 12 months** - Pap smear should be repeated twice at 12-month intervals in patients 21–24 years of age whose previous Pap smear has shown LSIL. The lesion usually spontaneously resolves over time and the risk of malignant transformation into invasive cervical cancer is low. If repeat testing is negative twice, the patient may return to routine screening. If the repeat Pap smear shows ASC-H , HSIL, or AGC, colposcopy should be performed.

Image File: 586-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_595372934c87e.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Colposcopy with endocervical sampling** - If a Pap smear shows LSIL, immediate colposcopy is performed if the patient is 25 years of age or older. In a patient with LSIL on a Pap smear who is 21–24 years of age, a different step is recommended.

**B - Colposcopy with endocervical and endometrial sampling** - Endometrial sampling would be indicated in patients with atypical glandular cells who are older than 35 years of age or who have abnormal bleeding. In this asymptomatic 24-year-old patient with a Pap smear showing LSIL, endometrial sampling is not required.

**D - Repeat Pap smear in 3 years** - Routine screening (in which Pap smear is repeated every 3 years) is only indicated in patients who have an unremarkable Pap smear. However, this patient's Pap smear showed LSIL and should therefore be evaluated according to a different diagnostic follow-up scheme.

**E - Loop electrosurgical excision procedure** - Loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) is an acceptable option in women 25 years of age or older with high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL) on cervical cytology. Regardless of cytology results, immediate LEEP without colposcopy would not be considered in pregnant women or women 21–24 years of age.

**F - Repeat Pap smear in 3 months** - In patients younger than 30 years, a repeat Pap smear in 3 months is only indicated if the specimen obtained for the preceding Pap smear was deemed unsatisfactory and the HPV status is unknown. This patient had a specimen that was sufficient to diagnose LSIL; a different step is therefore indicated.

