### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Gardner syndrome** - Gardner syndrome is a variant of familial adenomatous polyposis that manifests with multiple colonic polyps and may cause hematochezia together with extracolonic lesions such as osteomas, epidermal cysts, and congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium, all of which are seen in this patient. Untreated, the condition invariably progresses to colon cancer. A family history of colon cancer at a young age furthermore supports the diagnosis.

Image File: 588-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59e9f11f08d45.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Juvenile polyposis syndrome** - This patient has features that are also common in juvenile polyposis syndrome (JPS), including hematochezia, altered bowel habits, numerous polyps on colonoscopy, and a family history of colorectal cancer. However, JPS typically becomes symptomatic before the age of 20 years, and the presence of multiple osteomas, epidermal cysts, and CHRPE is more suggestive of another condition.

**B - Cronkhite-Canada syndrome** - Cronkhite-Canada syndrome (CCS) may manifest with hematochezia, altered bowel habits, and colonic polyps, as seen in this patient. However, the extracolonic manifestations of CCS include rapidly progressive alopecia, loss of nails, and patchy hyperpigmentation of the skin. Furthermore, the multiple benign tumors (osteomas, epidermal cysts), CHRPE, and a family history of colon cancer at a young age make another condition more likely.

**C - Lynch syndrome** - Family history of colon cancer occurring at a young age is one of the main criteria for hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC). Patients with HNPCC may present with hematochezia and altered bowel habits, as seen here, but colonic polyps are typically absent. Patients with HNPCC are at an increased risk of developing cancers of the stomach, pancreas, small intestine, breast, ovaries, and endometrium. However, the multiple benign tumors that this patient presents with (osteomas, epidermal cysts) and CHPRE are not seen in HNPCC, making another diagnosis more likely.

**D - Turcot syndrome** - Turcot syndrome is a variant of familial adenomatous polyposis. The family history of colon cancer at a young age and the presence of numerous colonic polyps in this patient are typical of FAP. However, this patient has no clinical features of brain tumors (e.g., headaches, focal neurological deficits), which are a defining feature of Turcot syndrome. Although imaging would be necessary to definitively rule out a small asymptomatic brain tumor, the presence of multiple osteomas, epidermal cysts, and CHRPE in this patient makes another diagnosis more likely.

**E - Peutz-Jeghers syndrome** - Patients with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome (PJS) can present with hematochezia, altered bowel habits, and a family history of colonic cancer at a young age, as is the case here. However, this patient does not have the common extraintestinal manifestations of PJS (i.e., hyperpigmented spots on the buccal mucosa, lips, palms, and soles). In addition, polyps in PJS are usually few (< 20) and located mainly in the jejunum, unlike the multiple colonic polyps seen here. Lastly, the osteomas, epidermal cysts, and CHRPE seen in this patient are more suggestive of another condition.

**G - Cowden syndrome** - Cowden syndrome can manifest with hematochezia, altered bowel habits, and multiple colonic polyps, as seen in this patient. However, the extraintestinal manifestations of Cowden syndrome include cutaneous papules and hyperkeratosis of the mucocutaneous membranes (often the first symptom), multinodular goiter, and benign breast disorders (e.g., fibroadenoma). The multiple benign tumors (osteomas, epidermal cysts) and CHRPE seen in this patient make another diagnosis more likely.

