### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Barium esophagram** - Zenker diverticulum is a false diverticulum (herniation of mucosa and submucosa only) that typically herniates through Killian's triangle at the dorsal hypopharynx. The diagnostic test of choice to confirm Zenker diverticulum is barium esophagram with dynamic continuous fluoroscopy. The characteristic outpouching in the posterior pharyngoesophageal wall confirms the diagnosis.

Image File: 589-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d925bbcba.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Esophageal manometry** - Esophageal manometry is useful to identify esophageal motility disorders, such as achalasia. This patient presents with some typical features of achalasia including dysphagia and regurgitation. However, achalasia often causes weight loss, which is not the case here, and it would not explain the bubbling sounds while eating. Esophageal manometry is also useful for detecting esophageal involvement in patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc), which often presents with Raynaud disease, which this patient has. The absence of other characteristic findings of SSc, such as thickening and hardening of the skin or sclerodactyly, however, make this diagnosis less likely.

**C - CT scan of the neck** - A CT scan of the neck is indicated in the diagnostic staging of esophageal cancers. This patient's dysphagia and regurgitation could be symptoms of an esophageal tumor, for which her smoking history and family history are risk factors. However, the absence of weight loss and anemia, together with the gurgling sound this patient hears while eating, is more suggestive of a different diagnosis. Also, CT scan of the neck and chest would not be the confirmatory test in the diagnosis of esophageal cancers. Larger outpouchings can be an incidental finding on CT scan of some individuals with Zenker diverticulum. However, CT scan is not routinely used to confirm or exclude this diagnosis.

**D - Serology and PCR** - Serology and PCR can be used to detect Trypanosoma cruzi, the pathogen that causes Chagas disease. Chagas disease may present with achalasia (megaesophagus), which typically leads to dysphagia and regurgitation, as seen in this patient. This patient's visits to Mexico, which is endemic for Chagas disease, increase her risk for this condition. However, megaesophagus typically occurs in the chronic phase of Chagas disease (approx. after 10–20 years), which is inconsistent with her travel history. Moreover, the chronic phase of Chagas disease would usually present with other symptoms including arrhythmias due to cardiomyopathy (ECG shows no abnormalities) and/or abdominal complaints due to involvement of the gastrointestinal tract, neither of which is the case here.

**E - Esophagogastroduodenoscopy** - Upper endoscopy is used for the diagnosis of various esophageal conditions including esophageal cancer. This patient's dysphagia and regurgitation could be symptoms of an esophageal tumor, for which her smoking history and family history are risk factors. However, the absence of weight loss and anemia, together with the gurgling sound this patient hears while eating, is more suggestive of a different diagnosis. Upper endoscopy of the esophagus can be used for the detection of diverticula, such as Zenker diverticulum. However, it is not the most sensitive diagnostic method for this condition and may lead to small openings in the esophageal wall being missed.

**F - Esophageal pH monitoring** - Esophageal pH monitoring is used to confirm the diagnosis of nonerosive reflux disease (NERD), which may also present with regurgitation and dysphagia, as seen in this patient. However, the absence of typical features of NERD such as retrosternal burning pain with meals, chronic non-productive cough, and/or nocturnal cough make Zenker diverticulum a more likely diagnosis.

**G - Endoscopic ultrasound** - Endoscopic ultrasound of the esophagus is used in the staging of esophageal cancer to determine tumor infiltration depth and register regional lymph node disease. This patient's dysphagia and regurgitation could be symptoms of an esophageal tumor, for which her smoking history and family history are risk factors. However, the absence of weight loss and anemia, together with the gurgling sound this patient hears while eating, is more suggestive of a different diagnosis.

