### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Dissociative identity disorder** - Dissociative identity disorder (DID) is characterized by the disruption of identity into at least two distinct personality states in combination with recurrent memory gaps. In addition to these two criteria, a diagnosis of DID requires that the symptoms cause significant social or occupational impairment and that the symptoms must not be related to substance use, other medical conditions, or be part of an accepted cultural or religious practice. This patient's sudden behavioral changes (child-like behavior, angry outbursts, calm and confident behavior at time of visit) are suggestive of separate identity states. Moreover, his recurrent episodes of amnesia, recent loss of employment, and behavioral changes that are not limited to his weekend alcohol use further support the diagnosis of DID. Further manifestations of DID present in this patient include episodes of derealization (“feelings of not being part of this world”) and auditory hallucinations (suggested by the patient “talking to the others”). 90% of patients with DID have a history of abuse or neglect during childhood.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Schizophrenia** - Schizophrenia is characterized by recurring (or chronic) episodes of psychosis, which may be characterized by behavioral changes. This patient's conversations with invisible people could suggest auditory hallucinations, a schizophrenia-defining symptom. However, to establish the diagnosis, at least one other symptom of the following would have to be present: delusions, disorganized speech, grossly disorganized/catatonic behavior, or negative symptoms. None of these other symptoms are seen in this patient.

**B - Dissociative amnesia** - Dissociative amnesia is characterized by memory gaps that lead to clinically significant social and/or occupational impairment. Although this patient has experienced frequent lapses in memory and recent job loss, his other symptoms (angry outbursts, possible auditory hallucinations) are better explained by another psychiatric disorder, which, by definition, excludes dissociative amnesia as a diagnosis.

**D - Depersonalization disorder** - Depersonalization disorder is characterized by a feeling of detachment from oneself. Affected individuals often describe this feeling as observing themselves from outside their bodies. This patient, however, describes a feeling of “not being part of this world,” which is more consistent with derealization than depersonalization. In derealization, individuals feel detached from the external environment. Finally, neither depersonalization nor derealization disorder is associated with memory gaps or sudden changes in behavior, both of which are seen here.

**E - Post-traumatic stress disorder** - Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) can develop in response to experiencing a traumatic event (e.g., child abuse), which is evidenced here from this patient's history. However, other symptoms of PTSD such as distressed mood, altered reactivity (e.g., sleep disturbances), avoidance of triggering stimuli, and intrusive symptoms (e.g., flashbacks, nightmares) are not seen here. Moreover, this patient's amnestic episodes and sudden behavioral changes with no apparent trigger are inconsistent with PTSD.

**F - Borderline personality disorder** - Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is characterized by emotional instability and a lack of impulse control that can result in frequent angry outbursts, which are seen in this patient. In addition, individuals affected by BPD often display self-destructive behavior, as suggested by the scars across his wrists. However, BPD is characterized by the inability to maintain interpersonal relationships combined with a high fear of abandonment, which is not expressed by this patient. Moreover, his amnestic episodes and sudden behavioral changes are inconsistent with BPD.

