### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Exploratory laparotomy** - This patient exhibits many of the clinical features of necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC). Surgical intervention for NEC is warranted when there is evidence of peritonitis (concerning for gangrenous bowel), perforation (pneumoperitoneum on x-ray), metabolic acidosis, elevated lactate, and/or portal venous gas on x-ray. The severity of this patient's symptoms warrants emergent exploratory laparotomy as the next step in management and will likely include removal of necrotic portions of the bowel.

Image File: 592-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5272a95b9386f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Nasogastric tube gut decompression** - Nasogastric tube gut decompression to decrease distention of the bowel is a supportive measure used for the medical management of NEC. This patient is severely ill, with peritonitis on exam and metabolic acidosis. While the measure may relieve symptoms temporarily, this intervention would not address the underlying cause of this patient's condition.

**C - Administration of ampicillin, gentamicin, and metronidazole** - Broad-spectrum antimicrobial regimens such as ampicillin, gentamicin, and metronidazole are part of the management of suspected or confirmed NEC. While antibiotics would be included in the management of this patient, the presence of metabolic acidosis and peritonitis suggest that the patient's bowel may already be necrotic and that antibiotics alone would be an insufficient treatment.

**D - Supportive care** - Supportive care – which may include bowel rest, total parenteral nutrition, fluid replacement, and cardiovascular/respiratory support – is the initial step in the medical management of NEC. However, for a patient with metabolic acidosis, peritonitis, and a deteriorating clinical status, supportive care alone would be an inappropriate treatment.

**E - Barium enema** - Barium enema is not used in the acute management of NEC. The diagnosis has already been established based on x-ray findings in this patient and further diagnostics would only delay treatment. Furthermore, exposure to barium may cause even more damage to the gastrointestinal tract in this patient, resulting in possible perforation and barium peritonitis.

