### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Paracentesis** - Paracentesis (with ultrasound guidance if necessary) is the next best step in the management of patients with manifestations of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP). Diagnostic paracentesis is also indicated in all cases of new-onset ascites. Ascitic fluid analysis should include the measurement of albumin, total protein, cell count, and bacterial cultures. The serum-ascites albumin gradient (SAAG) can be used to differentiate between portal hypertensive causes and nonportal hypertensive causes of ascites; a SAAG > 1.1 g/dL indicates that portal hypertension is the likely underlying cause of ascites. Paracentesis is the gold standard for confirming SBP before the initiation of antibiotics; a polymorphonuclear cell count ≥ 250 cells/mm3 in the ascitic fluid indicates SBP.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administration of spironolactone and furosemide** - Spironolactone and furosemide, along with dietary sodium restriction, are indicated in the management of ascites associated with cirrhosis. However, the presence of abdominal pain, tenderness, and fever in this patient are concerning for spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, for which diuretics are not indicated. An additional step in the evaluation of ascites should be performed.

**B - Liver biopsy** - A liver biopsy can be performed to determine the severity of cirrhosis. Though a biopsy may be useful for staging this patient's liver disease, it is not the next best step in the management of his current condition (spontaneous bacterial peritonitis).

**C - Administration of ceftriaxone** - Patients with suspected spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP) should receive empiric, broad-spectrum antibiotics (e.g., ceftriaxone) because they improve both morbidity and mortality. Third-generation cephalosporins are used to treat the most common pathogens that cause SBP (Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Streptococcus pneumoniae). However, prior to initiating antibiotics, an additional step in the evaluation of ascites should be performed.

**D - Administration of ciprofloxacin** - Ciprofloxacin can be used as secondary prophylaxis for patients with spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP). Fluoroquinolones are also indicated for primary prophylaxis in patients at high risk for this condition (e.g., patients with cirrhosis and an ascitic fluid protein concentration < 1.5 g/dL). However, prior to initiating antibiotics, an additional step in the evaluation of ascites should be performed.

**F - Administration of propranolol** - Propranolol is a nonselective beta blocker that is used for both primary and secondary prophylaxis of esophageal variceal bleeding and to lower portal pressure in patients with cirrhosis. Although propranolol might be indicated in this patient to decrease his risk of future variceal bleeding, it is not the next best step in the management of his current condition (spontaneous bacterial peritonitis).

**G - CT scan of the abdomen** - A CT scan of the abdomen is not routinely performed in patients with ascites or suspected spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP). An abdominal ultrasound is more cost-effective for detecting the presence of ascites, even when there is only a small amount of fluid present (∼ 30 mL). A CT scan would be indicated, however, if there were concern for underlying portal vein thrombus and Budd-Chiari syndrome but ultrasound findings were negative. Although this patient manifests with abdominal pain, distension, and tenderness, which are features that can be seen in individuals with a portal vein thrombus and Budd-Chiari syndrome, his pain is more gradual in onset; the pain associated with Budd-Chiari syndrome is typically more acute in onset. In addition, the presence of fever makes a diagnosis of SBP more likely.

