### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Duodenal hematoma** - In combination with a large gastric bubble on the CT scan, this patient's acute onset of nausea, bilious vomiting, upper abdominal pain, and abdominal distention suggest an upper small bowel obstruction. In a child with a history of recent blunt abdominal trauma (e.g., handlebar injury during a fall from a bicycle), as seen here, duodenal hematoma is the most likely diagnosis. Duodenal hematoma is a common injury in children following blunt abdominal trauma due to the fact that the abdominal wall is thinner and less developed, making hollow viscus more prone to injury. The hematoma typically resolves spontaneously in days to weeks. Hemodynamically stable patients can be managed conservatively with nasogastric intubation and total parenteral nutrition. Laparotomy may be indicated in hemodynamically unstable children and/or in those with suspected duodenal perforation.

Image File: 596-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6022c83c62a88.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Splenic laceration** - A splenic laceration can occur in children following blunt abdominal trauma and manifests with acute abdominal pain, which this patient has. However, patients with a splenic laceration usually show signs of blood loss (e.g., low hemoglobin, hemodynamic instability) and the abdominal CT scan would show the splenic injury.

Image File: 596-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b8008bdb6e5f.jpg

**B - Intestinal perforation** - Intestinal perforation can occur in children following blunt abdominal trauma and manifests with acute abdominal pain and distention, nausea, and vomiting, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, in intestinal perforation, bowel sounds are typically decreased or absent, and patients frequently show signs of peritonitis (e.g., abdominal guarding) or shock, none of which is seen here. Moreover, intraperitoneal free air would be seen on the abdominal CT scan.

Image File: 596-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91dcf6a5.jpg

**D - Acute pancreatitis** - Although rare, blunt abdominal trauma in children can cause acute pancreatitis due to pancreatic duct injury. Acute pancreatitis manifests with acute abdominal pain with distention, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal ecchymoses, all of which are seen here. However, serum amylase levels are elevated in patients with acute pancreatitis and an abdominal CT scan would show features of pancreatic injury (e.g., enlargement of the pancreatic parenchyma with edema) rather than a large gastric bubble.

Image File: 596-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_61123f56ea0d4.jpg

**E - Liver hematoma** - Liver hematoma can occur in children following blunt abdominal trauma and manifests with abdominal pain and distention, which this patient has. However, patients with a liver hematoma typically have elevated liver enzymes and a hepatic hematoma would be seen on an abdominal CT scan.

Image File: 596-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91a914cd.jpg

