### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Decreased serum HCO3-** - Severe diarrhea typically causes metabolic acidosis through a loss of HCO3- ions with the stool. Physiologically, HCO3- ions are secreted into the small intestine to neutralize acidic chyme and are later reabsorbed in the form of organic anion salts in the enterohepatic circulation. In patients with diarrhea, reabsorption is decreased due to increased motility of the intestines (decreased colon transit time) while secretion remains constant. Serum HCO3- concentrations subsequently decrease, which causes an increase in serum Cl- concentrations (hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis) in order to maintain blood electroneutrality.

Acute, severe watery diarrhea is associated with a significant loss of K+ ions through the stool. At the same time, acidosis can cause hyperkalemia through a shift of K+ ions into the extracellular space in exchange for H+ ions, which are buffered intracellularly. The net balance of serum K+ concentrations in patients with metabolic acidosis and diarrhea is difficult to predict, but most commonly, serum K+ concentrations are decreased.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Decreased serum Mg2+** - Diarrhea can cause decreased serum Mg2+ concentrations. However, these findings are more common for conditions of chronic diarrhea associated with steatorrhea because Mg2+ ions in the intestinal lumen combine with fatty acids to form insoluble soaps, which are excreted with the stool. This patient has acute diarrhea, which is less likely to affect the serum Mg2+ concentration. In addition, acidosis and dehydration, which are also seen in this patient, do not usually have a significant impact on serum Mg2+ concentration.

**B - Decreased serum Na+** - Fluid losses from diarrhea can lead to ADH release to facilitate reabsorption of water in the kidneys. If sodium intake is concurrently decreased, this scenario can result in hypoosmolar hyponatremia. However, it is much more common for diarrhea to result in hypernatremia because water is typically lost in excess of Na+ ions.

**C - Increased arterial pCO2** - Increased arterial pCO2 can cause a decrease in pH (respiratory acidosis). However, this patient's history and clinical manifestations do not suggest an underlying cause of respiratory acidosis (e.g., chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, medications that cause respiratory depression). Her respiratory rate is increased, which indicates a degree of respiratory compensation (via hyperventilation) for underlying metabolic acidosis, which leads to a decreased, not increased, arterial pCO2.

**E - Decreased serum Cl-** - Decreased serum Cl- concentrations, in association with metabolic alkalosis, can occur in the setting of severe vomiting. However, this patient has a metabolic acidosis from diarrhea, which is typically associated with increased serum Cl- concentrations. When anions are lost through the stool and serum concentrations decrease, Cl- ions shift into the extracellular space in order to maintain net blood electroneutrality. In addition, volume contraction and Cl- retention by the kidney in the setting of dehydration further contribute to an increased serum Cl- concentration.

