### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Separation anxiety disorder** - This child's 6-month history of abdominal pain on school days and clingy behavior towards his mother is most consistent with separation anxiety disorder. Separation anxiety disorder most commonly occurs in children at a mean age of 7.5 years with physical symptoms when separated from attachment figures and is characterized by significant distress or impairment in academic and/or social functioning, as seen in this child. Treatment options include psychotherapy (e.g., cognitive behavioral therapy, exposure therapy), family therapy, and play therapy.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Normal behavior** - Although it is not uncommon for children to have non-specific somatic complaints and unusual behavior at this age, the degree of impairment in academic and social functioning (missing school) and significant distress this child is experiencing is not consistent with normal behavior.

**C - Irritable bowel syndrome** - Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) should be considered in a patient with nonspecific abdominal complaints and changes in bowel habits in the absence of other concerning features (e.g., weight loss, early satiety, hematochezia). IBS typically manifests with abdominal pain that is relieved by defecation, along with a combination of diarrhea, constipation, and bloating. This patient, however, presents with a 6-month history of stable, crampy abdominal pain that is only present on school day mornings, making IBS an unlikely diagnosis.

**D - Conduct disorder** - Conduct disorder is characterized by pervasive behavior against societal norms and the violation of the rights of others (e.g., arson, theft, violence towards others). A minority of children with conduct disorder will go on to develop antisocial personality disorder as adults. School-related behavioral problems are often a prominent feature of conduct disorder. However, this patient has no history of aggression or other violating behavior towards others.

**E - Acute stress disorder** - Acute stress disorder is defined by a mix of anxiety, depression, mood, and behavioral symptoms for a duration of 3 days to 1 month, that occurs within 1 month of a severely traumatic event. This child has had symptoms for 6 months, and, despite his recent history of changing schools, he has no history of a recent major psychosocial stressor such as life-threatening illness, the death of a loved one, or divorce of parents.

