### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Gastroesophageal endoscopy** - Gastroesophageal endoscopy is indicated in this patient to rule out malignancy (e.g., cancer of the esophagus or the gastroesophageal junction) as a cause of secondary achalasia (pseudoachalasia). Distal esophageal cancer and achalasia can present similarly, which is why it is important to maintain a high index of suspicion for esophageal cancer. Additionally, achalasia itself predisposes to esophageal cancer, although cancer is unlikely to arise within a period of just 6 months. But in this particular patient, significant weight loss and a history of smoking are findings that would support the diagnosis of esophageal cancer, making endoscopic inspection necessary.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Nifedipine** - Nifedipine may be considered as a symptomatic treatment for achalasia in patients with a high surgical risk who have not received adequate relief from botulinum toxin injections. This patient has not undergone any prior treatment for achalasia. Therefore, nifedipine would not be the preferred choice for this patient at this time. Furthermore, potential causes of secondary achalasia should be evaluated before definitive treatment can be considered.

**B - Botulinum toxin injections** - Injections of botulinum toxin into the lower esophageal sphincter may be used to treat achalasia, primarily in patients who are poor surgical candidates. However, potential causes of secondary achalasia should be evaluated before definitive treatment can be considered.

**D - Giemsa stain of blood smear** - Giemsa staining can be used to detect Chagas disease, which may present with megaesophagus and achalasia. Although this patient recently traveled to the Amazon rainforest, an area where Chagas disease is endemic, achalasia is usually a sequela that appears in the chronic phase of Chagas disease, 10–20 years after primary infection. Furthermore, the patient's symptoms started prior to her trip to the rainforest. Finally, we would expect a patient with Chagas disease to present with other symptoms, such as fever, generalized lymphadenopathy, arrythmias, or constipation.

**E - Myotomy with fundoplication** - Myotomy of the lower esophageal sphincter is usually combined with fundoplication to prevent gastroesophageal reflux. Although this is one of the first-line treatments for patients with achalasia, potential causes of pseudoachalasia should be evaluated before definitive treatment can be considered.

**F - CT scan of the chest and abdomen** - A CT scan of the chest and abdomen is indicated in the diagnostic staging of cancers of the esophagus or the stomach. This patient has a history of weight loss, which could indicate a potential malignant tumor, as well as a history of smoking, predisposing her to both of these malignancies. While this patient's symptoms are most likely caused by achalasia, a malignant underlying condition needs to be investigated. However, a CT scan is not the most appropriate test to do so.

