### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Obstruction of the cystic duct** - Cholecystitis is usually caused by the passage of a gallstone into the cystic duct. The subsequent obstruction leads to inflammation and symptoms of right upper quadrant abdominal pain, nausea, and fever, as seen in this patient. Cholescintigraphy (HIDA scan) would show decreased or absent uptake of radioactive tracer in the gallbladder due to obstruction of the cystic duct; a HIDA scan is primarily used to diagnose cystic duct obstruction if RUQ ultrasound fails to show gallstones. In uncomplicated cholecystitis, cholestasis parameters (i.e., ALP, GGT, and bilirubin) are typically normal or only mildly elevated because there is usually no obstruction of the hepatic ducts or common bile duct.

Image File: 602-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_590214bd080ba.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Autodigestion of pancreatic parenchyma** - Autodigestion of pancreatic parenchyma due to a local release of digestive proteolytic enzymes is seen in pancreatitis. While pancreatitis can manifest with abdominal pain, nausea, and fever, the abdominal pain in pancreatitis is typically epigastric (not right upper abdominal pain) and radiates towards the back. Moreover, cholescintigraphy showing absent uptake of radioactive tracer in the gallbladder, as seen in this patient, suggests another etiology.

**B - Hypomotility of the gallbladder** - Hypomotility of the gallbladder can result in biliary stasis, which predisposes to gallstone development and cholecystitis. This patient's acute symptoms, however, are likely caused by contraction of the gallbladder against an impacted stone rather than by decreased motility of the gallbladder.

**C - Fistula between the gallbladder and small intestine** - A cholecystoenteric fistula (fistula between the gallbladder and small intestine) is often due to inflammation of the gallbladder wall. Fistulization provides a conduit for passage of gallstones, which may cause gallstone ileus. Patients with gallstone ileus can present with abdominal pain, nausea, and fever, as seen here. However, physical examination would classically show high-pitched (tympanic) bowel sounds. In addition, even though cholescintigraphy is not a sensitive test for gallstone ileus, it would be expected to show communication between the gallbladder and intestinal tract rather than absent uptake of radioactive tracer in the gallbladder. CT is the preferred imaging modality to confirm gallstone ileus and classically shows bowel obstruction with pneumobilia.

**D - Infection with a hepatotropic virus** - Infection with a hepatotropic virus (e.g., hepatitis A) can cause acute hepatitis. While acute hepatitis can manifest with right upper quadrant pain, nausea, and fever, it usually also manifests with markedly elevated liver function tests (e.g., AST, ALT), which are only mildly elevated in this patient. Moreover, a cholescintigraphy showing absent uptake of radioactive tracer in the gallbladder, as seen in this patient, suggests another etiology.

**F - Fibrosis of the common bile duct** - Fibrosis of the common bile duct is seen in primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC), which is a chronic inflammatory condition that can manifest with right upper quadrant pain and fever during acute episodes. However, patients with fibrosis of the common bile duct would be expected to have markedly elevated cholestasis parameters (i.e., ALP, GGT, and bilirubin). Moreover, cholescintigraphy would show impaired uptake of the radioactive tracer in the proximal bowel rather than absent uptake of radioactive tracer in the gallbladder.

