### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Degeneration of esophageal myenteric plexus** - Achalasia is caused by progressive degeneration of the esophageal myenteric plexus, resulting in dysfunctional peristalsis, increased resting pressure of the low esophageal sphincter (LES), and esophageal dilation proximal to LES, which is visualized in the barium esophagogram as a bird-beak sign. Patients usually present with a history of progressive dysphagia to both solids and liquids, as seen in this patient, and regurgitation of food. Heartburn unresponsive to proton pump inhibitors and weight loss are also common findings. Most cases of achalasia are primary, with an unknown etiology. Secondary achalasia is caused by diseases that compromise esophageal motility, such as esophageal cancer, stomach cancer, Chagas disease, amyloidosis, and sarcoidosis; all patients with achalasia should initially undergo an upper endoscopy to exclude a malignant cause. Esophageal manometry is the confirmatory test of choice.

Image File: 603-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d919e9408.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Premature contraction of the esophagus** - Premature contraction of the esophagus is seen in corkscrew esophagus, which manifests with dysphagia, globus sensation, and heartburn unresponsive to proton pump inhibitors, all of which are seen in this patient. However, dysphagia in patients with corkscrew esophagus is usually intermittent and predominantly to liquids. Moreover, a barium esophagogram would show a corkscrew appearance rather than a bird-beak sign.

Image File: 603-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ac588120c43.jpg

**C - Fibrosis of esophageal smooth muscle** - Fibrosis of esophageal smooth muscle is seen in patients with diffuse or limited systemic sclerosis. Smooth muscle fibrosis results in esophageal hypomotility and lower esophageal sphincter incompetence, which can manifest as progressive dysphagia and dilation of the esophagus on a barium esophagogram, both of which are seen here. However, the gastroesophageal junction would be open rather than narrowed. Moreover, this patient does not have features of systemic sclerosis (e.g., thickened skin, sclerodactyly, hypomimia).

**D - Viral infection of the esophagus** - Viral infection of the esophagus is seen in CMV esophagitis and herpes esophagitis, both of which can manifest with dysphagia and heartburn. However, patients usually also present with odynophagia and fever, none of which are seen here, and are typically immunocompromised; this patient's medical history suggests that he is immunocompetent. Moreover, a barium esophagogram would show well-circumscribed ulcers rather than a bird-beak sign.

**E - Outpouching of the upper esophageal wall** - Outpouching of the upper esophageal wall is seen in patients with Zenker diverticulum (ZD), which manifests with dysphagia and globus sensation, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, patients typically present with a globus sensation in the neck region rather than retrosternally. Moreover, ZD usually manifests with regurgitation, halitosis, gurgling in the throat, and/or a mass in the neck, none of which are seen here. Finally, a barium esophagogram would show a contrast-filled pouch rather than a bird-beak sign.

Image File: 603-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9267bb8c.jpg

**F - Eosinophilic inflammation of the esophagus** - Eosinophilic esophagitis can manifest with dysphagia and heartburn unresponsive to proton pump inhibitors, similar to what is seen here. However, a barium esophagogram would show formed rings or small strictures arranged in consequent ridges/furrows (a so-called "corrugated esophagus") but not a bird-beak sign.

