### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Metoclopramide** - Metoclopramide therapy would benefit this diabetic patient with gastroparesis by inducing gastric contractions, promoting peristalsis, and increasing the tone of the fundus. In addition, metoclopramide has antiemetic properties, making it the preferred first-line treatment for gastroparesis. Patients should be started on the lowest possible dose and monitored closely for extrapyramidal side effects (e.g., acute dystonia). In addition, patients with diabetic gastroparesis should be maintained on strict glycemic control to prevent further complications, and they should be advised to avoid eating large fatty meals and raw vegetables. Other drugs used to treat gastroparesis include domperidone and erythromycin.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Omeprazole** - Proton pump inhibitors, such as omeprazole, are the preferred agents to treat peptic ulcer disease, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and erosive esophagitis. Peptic ulcer disease can manifest with symptoms of dyspepsia similar to those seen here; however, these symptoms are usually accompanied by epigastric pain, which this patient does not have. In addition, given this patient's history of DM, diabetic gastroparesis is more likely, in which case omeprazole would not be an effective treatment.

**B - Exenatide** - Exenatide increases the postprandial release of pancreatic insulin and decreases the rate of intestinal glucose absorption by slowing gastric emptying. Although exenatide may improve this patient's glycemic control, which is an essential component in the treatment of diabetic autonomic neuropathy, slowing gastric emptying would exacerbate her symptoms of gastroparesis.

**C - Clarithromycin** - Clarithromycin is part of the triple therapy used for eradication of H. pylori, e.g., in associated peptic ulcer disease (PUD). While PUD can manifest with symptoms of dyspepsia similar to those seen here, they are usually accompanied by epigastric pain, which this patient does not have. Erythromycin, a different macrolide antibiotic, has prokinetic properties, and IV administration of the drug is known to significantly improve gastric emptying. However, because of the drug's numerous side effects (e.g., ototoxicity, QT prolongation, gastrointestinal distress) and its tendency for tachyphylaxis, erythromycin is reserved as a second-line treatment for gastroparesis.

**D - Probiotics** - Probiotic therapy is used in the management of conditions such as irritable bowel syndrome, inflammatory bowel disease, and antibiotic-associated diarrhea. This patient presents with symptoms suggestive of diabetic gastroparesis, which is not treated with probiotic therapy.

**F - Ondansetron** - Ondansetron is an antiemetic that has no prokinetic activity and would therefore not improve this patient's gastroparesis.

**G - Calcium carbonate** - Calcium carbonate is an antacid used to treat conditions including gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and erosive esophagitis. The drug does not relieve gastroparesis because it lacks prokinetic activity. Although patients with gastroparesis may have symptoms of hyperacidity or gastroesophageal reflux, agents that promote gastric emptying are typically needed for long-term treatment.

