### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Videofluoroscopy** - A videofluoroscopic modified barium swallow is considered the test of choice for evaluating oropharyngeal dysphagia. It involves direct visualization of the entire swallowing process using continuous x-rays and barium contrast. This diagnostic test evaluates the patient's risk of aspiration and determines whether the patient might benefit from supervised feedings, swallow rehabilitation therapy, and/or enteral nutrition.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - CT scan of the neck** - CT scan of the neck is used as part of the staging for esophageal cancer. While esophageal cancer can also present with weight loss and dysphagia, this patient developed dysphagia early in the swallowing process, coughing, and nasal regurgitation after a recent stroke, which is indicative of a neuromuscular cause of his symptoms. Furthermore, a staging CT would only be indicated after confirmation of esophageal cancer.

**C - Barium swallow** - Esophagram via barium swallow classically involves ingestion of barium contrast and acquisition of a single static x-ray image as contrast enters the stomach. This patient presents with oropharyngeal, rather than esophageal, dysphagia. A standard barium swallow does not evaluate the oropharynx and is therefore not the preferred initial diagnostic test for this patient.

**D - Esophageal manometry** - Esophageal manometry would be indicated in a patient with esophageal dysphagia who is believed to have esophageal motility disorder. Because this patient's clinical presentation is more consistent with oropharyngeal dysphagia than esophageal dysphagia, esophageal manometry is not indicated.

**E - Transnasal laryngoscopy** - Transnasal laryngoscopy can be used to visualize the oropharynx, to assess pharyngeal swallowing, and especially to assess possible aspiration and retention of food in the pharynx after swallowing (fiberoptic endoscopic examination of swallowing). However, it is not the preferred initial test as it does not allow visualization of the food bolus beyond the oropharynx.

**F - Upper endoscopy** - Upper endoscopy is the appropriate step in management for most patients that present with esophageal dysphagia and/or odynophagia as it can be both diagnostic and therapeutic. Unlike this patient, who reports swallowing problems immediately after taking a bite, patients with esophageal dysphagia report food “getting stuck” in their chest and do not have difficulty initiating swallowing. Esophageal dysphagia to solids that progresses to liquids suggests a mechanical obstruction; dysphagia to liquids only or for both solids and liquids at the same time suggests a motility disorder. Upper endoscopy is not the initial test of choice for this patient with suspected oropharyngeal dysphagia.

