### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Hypercalcemia** - This patient presents with symptoms of MEN 1, a syndrome which predisposes to a range of conditions, including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Symptoms of a kidney stone, intermittent arthralgias, abdominal pain, and fatigue further suggest primary hyperparathyroidism, which occurs in ∼ 90% of individuals with MEN 1. Increased levels of PTH and hypercalcemia are the main diagnostic features of pHPT, and the underlying cause of this patient's kidney stone.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hypertensive crisis** - A hypertensive crisis in patients with symptoms of an underlying multiple endocrine neoplasia is suggestive of pheochromocytoma, a catecholamine-secreting tumor. Catecholamines (e.g., norepinephrine) can lead to sudden rises in blood pressure. While pheochromocytoma can occur in both MEN 2A and 2B, it is not associated with MEN 1.

**B - Cutaneous flushing** - Cutaneous flushing in individuals with abdominal pain and diarrhea should raise suspicion of carcinoid syndrome, which is most commonly caused by carcinoid tumors of the small intestine. Although carcinoid tumors are associated with MEN 1, they are usually nonfunctioning gastric, bronchial, or thymic tumors. Also, they only occur in ∼ 10–15% of patients with MEN 1; a different finding is much more likely in this woman.

**C - Intestinal ganglioneuromas** - Intestinal ganglioneuromas are usually an incidental finding detected on imaging (e.g., CT). While the tumors are mostly asymptomatic, they can cause symptoms due to compression of surrounding structures (e.g., abdominal pain) or secretion of hormones (e.g., VIP-induced diarrhea). However, intestinal ganglioneuromas are most commonly seen in patients with MEN 2B, not MEN 1.

**E - Pulmonary stenosis** - Pulmonary stenosis in a patient with MEN 1 is suggestive of a serotonin-secreting carcinoid tumor. Increased serotonin levels can lead to cardiac fibrosis and could also be the cause of this patient's abdominal cramps and diarrhea. However, carcinoid tumors only occur in ∼ 10–15% of patients with MEN 1 and are mostly nonfunctioning; a different finding is much more likely.

**F - QT prolongation on ECG** - QT prolongation can be caused by a number of conditions, of which hypocalcemia is a common one. Almost all patients with MEN 2A and 2B develop medullary thyroid carcinoma, which produces calcitonin and thereby induces hypocalcemia. Individuals with MEN 1, however, do not commonly develop medullary thyroid cancer or hypocalcemia.

