### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Perform percutaneous drainage** - The initial step in management of a large pyogenic liver abscess is surgical drainage, in addition to empiric IV antibiotics. Most abscesses can be drained percutaneously; open or laparoscopic abscess drainage is indicated in the case of abscess rupture, large multiloculated abscesses, or if percutaneous drainage is not successful.

In hemodynamically stable patients, small abscesses (< 3 cm) can be treated solely with antibiotics. However, antibiotics alone would not be sufficient here because a large abscess is visible on ultrasound, and the patient is hemodynamically unstable.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer albendazole** - Albendazole is the first-line medical therapy for echinococcal disease (hydatid cyst) in the liver. These cysts are often asymptomatic but can manifest with RUQ pain, malaise, weight loss, and vomiting as they grow in size. They would not commonly cause fever, leukocytosis, or elevation of liver enzymes, as seen in this case. Additionally, echinococcal disease is highly unlikely in patients with no history of foreign travel.

Image File: 608-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d95001857.jpg

**B - Discontinue the oral contraceptive** - Hepatic adenomas are liver masses commonly associated with oral contraceptive use. They tend to be asymptomatic and are usually found incidentally. On ultrasound, they usually appear as a well-demarcated heterogeneous lesion with variable echogenicity, as opposed to the poorly-demarcated lesion seen here. Although they can occasionally cause discomfort, they would not cause the high fever or elevated liver enzymes seen in this patient.

Image File: 608-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5436518e46702.jpg

**C - Measure serum alpha-fetoprotein levels** - Serum alpha-fetoprotein levels would be an appropriate laboratory test if hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) were the suspected diagnosis. This patient has no risk factors for HCC (e.g., hepatitis B, hepatitis C, chronic alcoholism, etc.), which makes this diagnosis unlikely. Moreover HCC would not cause fever or leukocytosis, which are both seen in this patient.

Image File: 608-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_543653e482556.jpg

**D - Obtain hepatoiminodiacetic acid (HIDA) scan** - A HIDA scan is a nuclear medicine study primarily used to diagnose cystic duct obstruction if gallstones are not visible on RUQ ultrasound. Although cholecystitis can also manifest with RUQ pain, fever, and leukocytosis, this patient has a suspicious hepatic lesion that is likely causing her symptoms.

**E - Resect the left liver lobe** - Resection of a liver lobe can be indicated in the surgical management of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), hepatic metastases (e.g., metastasis from colorectal carcinoma, neuroendocrine tumors), or symptomatic benign hepatic tumors. This patient has no risk factors for HCC (e.g., chronic viral hepatitis, cirrhosis) and no clinical evidence of malignancies elsewhere, which makes these diagnoses unlikely. Additionally, neither malignant nor benign hepatic tumors would typically cause fever and leukocytosis. Moreover, the radiological appearance of this patient's lesion does not resemble that of either a tumor or a metastatic focus.

**F - Perform endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography** - ERCP is an intervention for cholangitis, which typically manifests with fever, jaundice, right upper quadrant pain (Charcot triad), and leukocytosis. This patient does not have hyperbilirubinemia or jaundice, which is a typical finding in cholangitis and is due to the underlying biliary stasis. Moreover, radiological imaging shows that her lesion is limited to the liver and does not involve the biliary tract.

Image File: 608-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5c767dbe149c7.jpg

**G - Administer metronidazole** - Metronidazole is the first-line treatment for amebic liver abscess. Although amebic liver abscess is virtually indistinguishable from pyogenic liver abscess clinically and radiologically, the lack of a history of immigration from or travel to endemic areas as well as the absence of diarrhea or dysentery (which precede amebic liver abscess in a third of cases) make this diagnosis less likely.

