### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Amebiasis** - Amebiasis is caused by the protozoan Entamoeba histolytica. This pathogen is spread fecal-orally in endemic regions (Mexico, Southeast Asia, India) and causes both intestinal disease (bloody loose stools) and extraintestinal disease (amebic liver abscess). The history of bloody diarrhea and immigration from Mexico, as well as the presence of a solitary hypoechoic lesion in the liver makes the diagnosis of amebiasis extremely likely. Patients with an amebic liver abscess typically present with fever and pain in the RUQ that is possibly exacerbated by inspiration.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Hepatic hydatid cyst** - Hepatic hydatid cyst is caused by the larvae of Echinococcus granulosus, a cestode that usually infects the gut of dogs. Human infection occurs by ingesting Echinococcus eggs. Patients may present with RUQ pain. The patient's occupational history (work in a pet store) is a risk factor for hepatic hydatid disease. However, fever is rare and occurs along with pruritus, urticaria, and/or anaphylaxis only if the cyst leaks or ruptures. The appearance of the cyst on ultrasonography varies depending on the stage of the cyst but a pathognomonic feature is the presence of daughter cysts and/or echogenic hydatid sand within the main cyst.

**C - Liver hemangioma** - Although liver hemangiomas are the most common benign lesions of the liver, they are usually asymptomatic, found more commonly among women, and tend to be hyperechoic on ultrasonography.

Image File: 610-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_612750816f4fa.jpg

**D - Pyogenic liver abscess** - Although patients with a pyogenic liver abscess also present with fever, right upper pain, leukocytosis, and a focal hypoechoic lesion in the right lobe of the liver, they are typically older (usually >50 years) and have an underlying bowel disease, intraabdominal infection, and/or a history of recent surgery. Moreover, nausea and vomiting, which are common findings in patients with pyogenic liver abscess, are not present in this patient. Lastly, pyogenic liver abscess would not explain this patient's previous diarrhea.

**E - Hepatocellular carcinoma** - Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) occurs in the presence of underlying chronic liver disease (e.g., cirrhosis, hepatitis B or C infection, hemochromatosis, alcoholic cirrhosis and/or non-alcoholic fatty liver disease). In this patient, morbid obesity is a risk factor for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Moreover, patients can present a hypoechoic lesion on ultrasonography (in the case of a small nodular HCC) and RUQ pain. However, the presence of fever and the acute onset of symptoms makes the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma unlikely.

