### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Helicobacter pylori infection** - Helicobacter pylori infection is the strongest predisposing factor for this patient's peptic ulcer disease (PUD). H. pylori infection accounts for up to 80% of gastric ulcers and 90% of duodenal ulcers. The most common sites for ulcer development are the lesser curvature and the antrum of the stomach and the duodenal bulb, and diagnosis of H. pylori infection can be confirmed on biopsy. In addition to controlling bleeding, treatment of his peptic ulcer should include Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy.

H. pylori infection also increases the risk of gastric cancer and MALT lymphoma.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Age above 40 years** - Although age is a predisposing factor for PUD, the risk is significantly higher in individuals over the age of 65 years, it would only be marginally increased in a 45-year-old patient.

**B - Alcohol consumption** - Alcohol consumption increases the risk of PUD by causing chemical gastritis, which predisposes individuals to ulcer development and prolongs ulcer healing. However, alcohol consumption is not the strongest predisposing factor for PUD in this patient.

**C - Acetaminophen use** - Acetaminophen is a commonly used non-opioid analgesic. Although it can cause gastrointestinal side effects such as nausea and vomiting, it does not increase the risk of PUD or gastrointestinal bleeding. In comparison, NSAIDs, another class of commonly used non-opioid analgesic, can increase the risk of PUD 5-fold.

**D - Work-related stress** - Stress has been associated with increased gastric acid production and development of PUD, although the exact underlying mechanism is poorly understood and causality has not yet been defined. A different predisposing factor is more likely in this patient.

