### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Lynch syndrome** - Lynch syndrome is a familial cancer syndrome caused by autosomal dominant mutations in DNA mismatch repair genes (e.g., MSH2, MLH1). Individuals with this syndrome have an ∼ 80% lifetime risk of developing colorectal cancer (typically in the proximal colon). While genetic testing is the test of choice to confirm the diagnosis, the family history-based Amsterdam II criteria can be used to identify individuals who are likely to be affected (“3-2-1 rule”: Lynch syndrome-associated cancer in ≥ 3 family members, within 2 generations, and in 1 relative under 50 years of age). This patient fulfills the Amsterdam II criteria.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Familial adenomatous polyposis** - Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is an autosomal dominant condition caused by a mutation in the tumor suppressor gene APC. Affected individuals have hundreds of colonic polyps that typically develop in the second and third decades of life. The lifetime risk of colorectal cancer is 100% by 45 years of age. This patient's MSH2 gene mutation and lack of polyps on colonoscopy are inconsistent with FAP.

**B - Li-Fraumeni syndrome** - Li-Fraumeni syndrome is an autosomal dominant condition caused by a mutation in the p53 tumor suppressor gene. Subsequent loss of heterozygosity results in the development of multiple malignancies (e.g., sarcomas, adrenal gland and breast cancer, leukemia) at an early age. This patient's MSH2 gene mutation is consistent with a different condition.

**C - Turcot syndrome** - Turcot syndrome is a variant of either familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) or Lynch syndrome. It is associated with an increased risk for colorectal cancer as well as malignant CNS tumors (e.g., medulloblastoma with FAP, glioma with Lynch syndrome). Although MSH2 mutations can be found in patients with Turcot syndrome, lack of evidence of a CNS tumor in this patient makes this diagnosis unlikely.

**D - Peutz-Jeghers syndrome** - Peutz-Jeghers syndrome (PJS) is an autosomal dominant condition associated with a mutation in the STK11 gene. PJS manifests with multiple hamartomatous polyps throughout the gastrointestinal tract (predominantly in the jejunum) and mucocutaneous hyperpigmentation of the lips, buccal mucosas, palms, and soles. Individuals with PJS have an increased risk for colorectal cancer (∼ 40% lifetime risk) as well as for extraintestinal cancers (e.g., ovarian, breast, pancreatic cancer). This patient's MSH2 gene mutation, lack of polyps on colonoscopy, and absence of mucocutaneous hyperpigmentation are inconsistent with PJS.

**E - Gardner syndrome** - Gardner syndrome is a subtype of familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) caused by an autosomal dominant mutation in the tumor suppressor gene APC. Gardner syndrome is characterized by the presence of hundreds of colonic polyps together with bony and/or soft tissue tumors (e.g., osteomas, desmoid tumors, lipomas, fibromas). The lifetime risk of developing colorectal cancer is 100%. This patient's MSH2 gene mutation, lack of polyps on colonoscopy, and absence of extracolonic bony and/or soft tissue tumors are inconsistent with Gardner syndrome.

