### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Decreased blood flow to the splenic flexure** - Ischemic colitis resulting from intraoperatively decreased blood flow to the splenic flexure is the most likely cause of this patient's symptoms. Intestinal ischemia caused by transient hypoperfusion may be seen in patients with acute hypovolemia (e.g., due to severe blood loss, as seen here) or vascular occlusion. The splenic flexure and the rectosigmoid colon are at highest risk of ischemia because of the watershed nature of the arterial supplies to these tissues. Affected patients commonly report cramping abdominal pain (usually left-sided), bloody stools, and tenesmus. In severe cases, infarction of intestinal tissue leads to perforation of the bowel, sepsis, and death. Colonoscopy confirms the diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Embolization of superior mesenteric artery** - Embolization of the superior mesenteric artery can lead to acute mesenteric ischemia. This condition typically manifests with rapid onset of severe periumbilical pain, nausea, vomiting, and often, bloody diarrhea. This patient's rapidly worsening abdominal pain and bloody bowel movements are consistent with acute mesenteric ischemia. However, she lacks typical predisposing factors (e.g., atrial fibrillation, endocarditis) and, given the intraoperative blood loss she suffered during surgery, a different etiology is more likely.

**B - Adynamic small bowel** - Adynamic small bowel, also known as paralytic ileus, is a very common postoperative complication. Risk factors include abdominal surgery, administration of opioids or anticholinergics, hypokalemia, and sepsis. Patients typically present with nausea, vomiting, decreased or absent bowel sounds as well as diffuse abdominal pain and distention 1–3 days after abdominal surgery. Because this patient received opioids for postoperative pain management, her risk of paralytic ileus is increased. However, the acute onset of severe left-sided abdominal pain and bloody stools suggest another underlying cause.

**D - Small outpouchings in the sigmoid wall** - Small outpouchings in the sigmoid wall are a characteristic finding in patients with diverticular disease. Inflammation of diverticula can manifest with left-sided abdominal pain, as seen here. However, this patient presents with severe acute-onset pain, whereas the discomfort associated with diverticulitis usually develops over the course of several hours to days. Also, symptoms such as low-grade fever, nausea, vomiting, and a change in bowel habits would be expected. This patient's presentation shortly after cardiovascular surgery suggests a different etiology.

**E - Atherosclerotic narrowing of the intestinal vessels** - Atherosclerosis of an intestinal vessel (e.g., superior or inferior mesenteric artery) can lead to chronic mesenteric ischemia. Symptoms such as recurrent abdominal pain (classically postprandial), bloating, and nausea develops over months to years. Although this patient's diabetes mellitus and hypercholesterolemia increase her risk of developing chronic mesenteric ischemia, her acute presentation with left-sided abdominal cramping and bloody stools suggests another etiology.

**F - Infection with Clostridioides difficile** - Infection with Clostridioides difficile is becoming increasingly prevalent. Affected patients typically present with cramping abdominal pain, accompanied by frequent loose, watery stools that have a characteristic malodor. Major risk factors for C. difficile colitis include prolonged hospitalization and extended antibiotic therapy (especially with clindamycin, third-generation cephalosporins, and fluoroquinolones). This patient's bloody bowel movements after a short course of perioperative antibiotics make C. difficile colitis an unlikely etiology.

