### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Dubin-Johnson syndrome** - Dubin-Johnson syndrome is a benign condition that results in direct hyperbilirubinemia. It is often identified by an incidental finding of a darkly pigmented ("black") liver. It does not require treatment, as mild to moderate jaundice is typically the only clinical sign.

Image File: 615-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fec738a5ed05.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Type II Crigler-Najjar syndrome** - Though type II Crigler-Najjar syndrome can remain asymptomatic until adulthood, it typically manifests with indirect hyperbilirubinemia as opposed to the direct hyperbilirubinemia seen in this patient. Additionally, Crigler-Najjar syndrome does not cause hyperpigmentation of the liver.

**C - Gilbert syndrome** - Gilbert syndrome is the most common inherited hyperbilirubinemia, which manifests with indirect hyperbilirubinemia in times of stress, such as trauma, disease, or exhaustion. Though this patient does have the stress of recent surgery, her hyperbilirubinemia is direct, not indirect. Additionally, Gilbert syndrome does not cause hyperpigmentation of the liver.

**D - Rotor syndrome** - Rotor syndrome can also manifest with direct hyperbilirubinemia, but it does not cause hyperpigmentation of the liver.

**E - Wilson disease** - Wilson disease can cause discoloration of the liver, but it manifests with copper discoloration only visible on histopathologic examination, as opposed to the gross black discoloration visualized in this patient. Additionally, Wilson disease manifests with elevated transaminases, not with direct hyperbilirubinemia.

