### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Toxic megacolon** - Toxic megacolon is a life-threatening complication of inflammatory conditions affecting the intestines like ulcerative colitis, which this patient, with a history of bloody diarrhea and abdominal pain, most likely has. To diagnose toxic megacolon, there must be radiographic evidence of colonic dilation and three of the following features must be present: fever (> 101.1°F), tachycardia (> 120/min), leukocytosis (> 10,500/mm3), and anemia. Furthermore, one of the following must be present: dehydration, hypotension, altered mental status, or electrolyte disturbance (e.g., hypokalemia, as seen here). The initial treatment is conservative (including IV antibiotics, fluid resuscitation, complete bowel rest, nasogastric decompression, and IV steroids for inflammatory bowel disease), but surgery may be required if there is no response to medical management within 24–72 hours.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Gastrointestinal tract perforation** - GI tract perforation manifests with signs of peritonitis, such as severe abdominal pain, vomiting, fever, tachycardia, and leukocytosis, all of which are seen in this patient. However, an x-ray of the abdomen would show air under the diaphragm and/or air delineating the bowel wall (i.e., signs of pneumoperitoneum) rather than the extensive colonic dilation seen here.

Image File: 616-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57f37523afd92.jpg

**B - Sigmoid volvulus** - Sigmoid volvulus can manifest with abdominal pain and vomiting, both of which are seen in this patient. However, this condition typically affects elderly adults (mean age of 70 years) and manifests with constipation rather than bloody diarrhea. Moreover, an abdominal x-ray would show a dilated sigmoid colon resembling a coffee bean rather than the extensive colonic dilation seen in this patient.

Image File: 616-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58a5bd4bb5297.jpg

**C - Ogilvie syndrome** - Ogilvie syndrome (acute colonic pseudo-obstruction) can manifest with abdominal pain, diarrhea, and, in cases of colonic ischemia or impending perforation, fever and tachycardia. Moreover, an x-ray of the abdomen would show extensive colonic distention, as seen here. However, Ogilvie syndrome does not typically cause bloody diarrhea and characteristically occurs in seriously ill or postoperative patients.

**D - C. difficile colitis** - C. difficile colitis can manifest with abdominal pain, diarrhea, fever, leukocytosis, and hypokalemia due to diarrhea, all of which are seen here. Moreover, C. difficile colitis may in some cases lead to dilation of the colon and loss of haustration on abdominal x-ray. However, diarrhea is typically watery and C. difficile infection usually develops following recent antibiotic treatment, making this diagnosis less likely.

**E - Acute mesenteric ischemia** - Acute mesenteric ischemia (AMI) can manifest with bloody diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain and distention, absent bowel sounds, and, in cases of bowel necrosis, signs of sepsis. However, AMI usually occurs in patients > 60 years of age with cardiovascular risk factors, which this 45-year-old patient lacks. Moreover, an x-ray of the abdomen would be more likely to show pneumatosis intestinalis or indentations in the bowel wall caused by haustral edema (i.e., thumb sign) than the extensive colonic dilation seen here.

