### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Chronic transplant rejection** - A chronic transplant rejection is damage to the graft by the host's immune system that usually occurs several months after transplantation. There is no clear cut-off value because the diagnosis of a chronic versus acute transplant rejection is based on biopsy findings; 6 months is an approximation. The pathophysiology of chronic graft rejection is not completely understood, but a host T cell-mediated response is believed to play a role. Chronic hepatic allograft rejection presents with progressive hepatic dysfunction and cholestasis. On a liver biopsy, fibrosis and hepatic ductopenia are the most common findings. Obliterative arteriopathy, which is characteristic of chronic rejection of other allografts, is usually less evident because it mainly affects larger perihilar arteries. When compared to acute transplant rejection, post-transplant immunosuppression is less effective at preventing chronic transplant rejection. In most cases, patients with chronic transplant rejection will require retransplantation.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - De-novo malignancy** - In rare cases, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) can arise de-novo in the transplanted liver and manifest similarly with fatigue, weight loss, elevated hepatic transaminases, worsening hyperbilirubinemia, and possibly even elevated alkaline phosphatase. In addition, HCV infection is a risk factor for HCC, and post-transplant immunosuppressive therapy increases the risk of post-transplant malignancies. However, this patient was treated with the direct-acting antiviral glecaprevir/pibrentasvir, which has a very high rate of sustained virologic response. Moreover, de-novo HCC typically arises several years after transplantation rather than within a few months, and this patient's liver biopsy does not show any evidence of malignancy. Examples of more common post-transplant malignancies are nonmelanona skin cancers (e.g., cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma), Kaposi sarcoma, and non-Hodgkin lymphoma.

**B - Graft infection** - Pathogens that are typically implicated in infection of the liver graft are cytomegalovirus (CMV), Ebstein-Barr virus (EBV), human herpes virus 6 (HHV-6), and the hepatitis C virus (HCV). If HCV infection is not treated, the grafted liver is almost always reinfected; HCV infection of the graft can cause fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis (FCH), which would manifest with similar clinical features, laboratory findings, evidence of fibrosis and, occasionally, hepatic ductopenia on biopsy within a few months of liver transplantation. However, FCH is characterized by periportal fibrosis and/or pericellular fibrosis rather than perivenular fibrosis, and other findings such as hepatocyte swelling would be seen. Moreover, this patient was treated with the direct-acting antiviral glecaprevir/pibrentasvir, which has a very high rate of sustained virologic response. Hepatic CMV, EBV, or HHV-6 infection does not cause fibrosis or ductopenia in the liver graft. CMV infection is also less likely because the patient received ganciclovir prophylaxis.

**C - Graft-versus-host disease** - A graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) can occur following liver transplantation as a result of donor T lymphocytes in the transplanted liver and manifest with fatigue and weight loss. The onset of symptoms more than 100 days after transplantation is consistent with the chronic form of GvHD. However, patients with chronic GvHD would also have skin changes (e.g., scleroderma-like rash, xerostomia), gastrointestinal symptoms due to chronic enteritis, and respiratory symptoms due to bronchiolitis obliterans, which are not reported by this patient. Hepatic dysfunction and hepatic ductopenia, which are seen here, can occur with chronic GvHD due to nonhepatic grafts (e.g., allogeneic bone marrow transplantation, small bowel transplantation) but would not be seen with hepatic transplantation.

**E - Acute transplant rejection** - An acute transplant rejection would present similarly with fatigue, weight loss, elevated hepatic transaminases, elevated alkaline phosphatase, worsening hyperbilirubinemia, and possibly even hepatic ductopenia due to bile duct destruction. However, an acute rejection typically occurs within days or weeks of transplantation, unlike in this patient who developed hepatic dysfunction after several months. Moreover, a liver biopsy in patients with acute hepatic graft rejection would show dense lymphocytic infiltration and necrotizing vasculitis; fibrosis, as seen here, would not be expected.

**F - Recurrence of primary disease** - The primary disease for which liver transplantation was performed (i.e., alcoholic cirrhosis) would not recur in this patient because he completely abstains from drinking alcohol. His other primary disease, hepatitis C, could progress more rapidly following transplantation because of immunosuppressive therapy. In this case, progressively worsening hepatitis C would lead to fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis and present with similar clinical features, laboratory findings, and biopsy findings within a few months of liver transplantation. However, this patient was treated with the direct-acting antiviral glecaprevir/pibrentasvir, which has a very high rate of sustained virologic response.

