### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Colorectal cancer** - This patient's episodes of bloody diarrhea with mucus, tenesmus, and abdominal pain, in combination with the endoscopic findings of an inflamed, friable mucosa with rectal involvement, are consistent with a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis. Patients with ulcerative colitis have an increased risk of colorectal cancer, with risk factors including the extent of colitis, the duration of disease, and the histological severity of inflammation. Eight to ten years after the initial diagnosis of ulcerative colitis, patients should receive colonoscopies with biopsies every 1–3 years to screen for colorectal cancer.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hemolytic uremic syndrome** - Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is a thrombotic microangiopathy and complication of diarrheal bacterial infection, particularly with enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC). Though this patient has a 1-month history of diarrhea, the typical presentation of HUS is the triad of thrombocytopenia, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, and impaired renal function that develops 5–10 days after the onset of diarrheal illness. Additionally, HUS typically affects young children.

**B - Oral ulcers** - Oral ulcers are a typical complication of Crohn disease, an inflammatory bowel disease that also causes abdominal cramping and diarrhea. Unlike ulcerative colitis, which only affects the colon and rectum, Crohn disease can involve any part of the gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus. However, in Crohn disease, the rectum is usually spared, and the condition mostly presents with watery, nonbloody stools and with just a slight increase in stool frequency as opposed to this patient showing bloody stools with mucus and a marked increase in stool frequency. Furthermore, RLQ pain is more common in Crohn disease.

**C - Gastric cancer** - Gastric cancer has multiple risk factors, but ulcerative colitis is not among them. Risk factors for gastric cancer include a diet rich in nitrates and salt, alcohol use, H. pylori infection, and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).

**E - Pancreatic cancer** - Pancreatic cancer has multiple risk factors, but ulcerative colitis is not among them. Risk factors for pancreatic cancer include smoking, heavy alcohol consumption, chronic pancreatitis, H. pylori infection, and inherited genetic syndromes.

**F - Colonic granulomas** - Colonic granulomas can develop in patients with Crohn disease, an inflammatory bowel disease that also causes abdominal cramping and diarrhea. Colonic granulomas have low sensitivity but high specificity for Crohn disease. However, in Crohn disease, the rectum is usually spared and it mostly presents with watery, nonbloody stools and with just a slight increase in stool frequency as opposed to this patient showing bloody stools with mucus and a marked increase in stool frequency. Furthermore, RLQ pain is more common in Crohn disease.

