### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry** - Because osteoporosis is a disease that often accompanies primary biliary cholangitis, dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry should be conducted upon diagnosis of PBC to determine a baseline of bone density. The exact pathophysiology of osteoporosis in patients with PBC is not yet well understood. Further laboratory studies of this patient with PBC will most likely detect the presence of antimitochondrial antibodies.

Image File: 619-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_602c1df5414ce.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - Anti-smooth muscle antibody serology** - Anti-smooth muscle antibody (ASMA) serology is used to screen for autoimmune hepatitis in patients with hepatomegaly, jaundice, and elevated liver enzymes and cholestasis parameters. Individuals with autoimmune hepatitis, similar to individuals with primary biliary cholangitis, are at increased risk of developing cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. However, liver biopsy findings in a patient with autoimmune hepatitis would typically show a periportal inflammatory process with plasma cell infiltrates, which this patient does not have, and ASMAs are not used to screen for cirrhosis or hepatocellular carcinoma. This patient has primary biliary cholangitis, which is not associated with ASMAs.

**C - Complete colonoscopy** - Complete colonoscopy should be performed in individuals with primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) at the time of diagnosis, followed by surveillance colonoscopies every 1–2 years. Because of the association with ulcerative colitis, which occurs in ∼ 90% of patients with PSC, affected individuals have a higher risk of colorectal cancer. Patients with PSC are often asymptomatic but may also develop signs of cholestasis and cirrhosis in advanced disease stages. Although this patient presents with a markedly raised ALP, MRCP of PSC characteristically shows progressive inflammation of not only intrahepatic but also extrahepatic bile ducts, unlike here. Moreover, this patient shows no signs of an underlying IBD.

**D - Serum electrophoresis** - Serum electrophoresis can help diagnose α1-Antitrypsin deficiency (ATT deficiency), which presents with hepatomegaly and jaundice due to the accumulation of α1-antitrypsin in hepatocytes. However, this patient lacks the characteristic pulmonary symptoms, as ATT deficiency typically causes COPD and panlobular emphysema in young patients and nonsmokers. ATT deficiency would also not explain the liver biopsy findings in this patient.

**E - Testing for carbohydrate antigen 19-9** - Testing for CA19-9 can be indicated for the screening and/or follow-up of a variety of tumors, including cholangiocarcinoma, which occurs in ∼ 10–15% of patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC). Patients with PSC are often asymptomatic but may also develop signs of cholestasis and cirrhosis in advanced disease stages. This patient presents with a markedly raised ALP, which is a typical finding related to PSC. However, in individuals with PSC, MRCP characteristically shows progressive inflammation of not only intrahepatic but also extrahepatic bile ducts, unlike this patient. Moreover, this patient shows no signs of underlying ulcerative colitis, which often occurs in conjunction with PSC.

**F - Cardiac MRI** - Cardiac MRI is used to evaluate for cardiac sarcoidosis, which may manifest with hepatomegaly, splenomegaly, and eye discomfort (due to iridocyclitis). However, the most common clinical features of sarcoidosis include pulmonary symptoms (dry cough, exertional dyspnea), which this patient does not have. Moreover, sarcoidosis does not explain this patient's liver biopsy findings.

