### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Delirium** - Delirium occurs postoperatively in ∼ 10–50% of elderly patients who undergo surgical hip fracture repair and is characterized by the acute onset of waxing and waning altered mental status. This patient has multiple risk factors for delirium, including advanced age, current hospitalization, recent surgery, and administration of opioids. Inadequate analgesia has also been implicated in the development of delirium in postoperative patients.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Dementia** - Dementia is a common cause of chronic, sustained altered mental status in elderly patients. However, the sudden onset and waning pattern of this patient's symptoms are not consistent with dementia.

**B - Alcohol withdrawal** - Alcohol withdrawal is an important diagnosis to consider in a hospitalized patient with altered mental status, and can present with anxiety, psychomotor agitation, insomnia, alcoholic hallucinosis, and/or delirium tremens. This patient has been in the hospital for at least six days, which is beyond the typical timeframe of alcohol withdrawal symptom onset. Furthermore, her normal vital signs, lack of a tremor, and minimal alcohol use make this diagnosis unlikely.

**C - Opioid intoxication** - Opioid intoxication is an important cause to consider in a patient with altered mental status who is taking oxycodone. Classic signs of opioid intoxication include somnolence and respiratory depression, whereas this patient has a normal respiratory rate and episodically altered sensorium with periods of hyperactivity.

**E - Schizophrenia** - Schizophrenia is typically characterized by hallucinations, delusions, disorganized thought process, and/or negative symptoms of psychosis. The acute onset and episodic, waning nature of this patient's symptoms are not consistent with schizophrenia. Furthermore, a new diagnosis of schizophrenia in this age group would be highly unusual.

**F - Urinary tract infection** - Urinary tract infections can present with altered mental status, especially in elderly patients. This patient's extended hospitalization increases her risk for UTI. However, the unremarkable urinary dipstick and lack of symptoms, such as dysuria, urgency, or frequency makes this diagnosis unlikely.

