### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Esophageal strictures** - The most common long-term complication of caustic liquid ingestion is the development of esophageal strictures. Most strictures develop approx. 2 months after the initial injury. Esophageal dysmotility caused by strictures and neuromuscular damage can lead to severe dysphagia. Other complications of caustic liquid ingestion include esophageal ulcers and esophageal cancer.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Esophageal webs** - Esophageal webs are thin membranes of normal esophageal tissue that protrude into the esophagus. These webs can cause symptoms such as dysphagia, odynophagia, and food impaction. Esophageal webs may be congenital (Plummer-Vinson syndrome) or acquired (e.g., nutritional deficiencies), but they are not caused by caustic agent injury.

**C - Barrett esophagus** - Barrett esophagus is a complication of chronic gastroesophageal reflux. Chronic gastroesophageal reflux may occur secondary to caustic agent injury but Barrett esophagus is not a common complication.

**D - Thyroglossal fistula** - A thyroglossal fistula is a congenital remnant of the thyroid diverticulum. It would not be expected to develop as a result of caustic liquid injury. Mediastinal and tracheoesophageal fistulas may develop in patients with severe caustic liquid injury, especially in those with esophageal perforation.

**E - Mallory-Weiss tears** - Mallory-Weiss tears are traumatic mucosal and submucosal esophageal tears at the gastroesophageal junction. These tears usually manifest with hematemesis, and they are typically the result of severe, repeated retching and/or vomiting. In most affected individuals, Mallory-Weiss tears heal spontaneously. Conditions that predispose individuals to Mallory-Weiss tears include alcoholism, bulimia nervosa, and gastroesophageal reflux disease, but not caustic agent injury.

Image File: 621-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dcea9311a55c.jpg

**F - Oral cavity cancer** - Oral cavity cancer is associated with long-term oral tobacco use, smoking, or alcohol consumption as well as poor oral hygiene and/or human papillomavirus (e.g., HPV 16, 18, 31, and 33) infection. Caustic agent injury is associated with an increased risk of esophageal cancer rather than oral cavity cancer.

