### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Rectal suction biopsy** - Rectal biopsy is the gold standard confirmatory test for suspected Hirschsprung disease. It can be performed either as a full-thickness biopsy, carried out under general anesthesia, or as a rectal suction biopsy, directly at the bedside, sparing the patient the need to undergo general anesthesia. If the biopsy shows an absence of ganglion cells in an adequate tissue sample, Hirschsprung's disease is confirmed. A normal biopsy result taken from a correct site (i.e., 2 cm proximal to the dentate line) virtually rules out Hirschsprung disease.

Image File: 624-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94abf998.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - CT scan of the abdomen** - In adults, a CT scan of the abdomen is a common diagnostic test for patients with acute abdominal pain or severe abdominal distention. However, in children in general and even more so in newborns such as this boy at 3 weeks of age, CT scans should be avoided whenever possible because of the exposure to ionizing radiation and the significant risk of long-term complications (e.g., radiation-related cancers). Alternative imaging techniques such as ultrasonography and/or MRI are almost always preferred. Abdominal CT scans are not indicated for the diagnostic workup of Hirschsprung's disease.

**B - Transabdominal ultrasonography** - Transabdominal ultrasonography can be used to assess other potential causes of abdominal distention or congenital malformations of the abdominal cavity (e.g., duodenal atresia). While findings on abdominal ultrasonography may support the diagnosis (e.g., dilated colonic segments), given its poor positive predictive value, ultrasound does not play an important role in the diagnosis of Hirschsprung's disease. It would not be an appropriate confirmatory test in this patient.

**C - Barium enema** - A barium enema is useful in infants with suspected Hirschsprung disease. It is often performed in addition to x-ray to determine the length of the aganglionic segment prior to surgery. It may show a change in caliber along the affected colonic segment, a constricted distal bowel, and/or prolonged barium retention. Barium enema is useful for excluding Hirschsprung disease in patients in whom clinical suspicion of the disease is low. However, it is not used as a confirmatory test to establish the diagnosis of Hirschsprung disease. Furthermore, false negatives are not uncommon with barium enemas, e.g., because of a recent digital rectal examination, further reducing its diagnostic value in this patient.

**D - Anorectal manometry** - Anorectal manometry is a useful screening test in children > 1 month of age with suspected Hirschsprung's disease. In a patient with Hirschsprung's disease, the test would show an absent relaxation reflex of the internal anal sphincter. However, anorectal manometry is difficult to perform in newborns because adequate cooperation is essential for this procedure. Thus it would not be the appropriate test for this newborn at 3 weeks of age.

**E - Quantitative pilocarpine iontophoresis** - Quantitative pilocarpine iontophoresis is the gold standard test for diagnosing cystic fibrosis. About 10% of children with cystic fibrosis have meconium ileus, which presents with delayed passage of meconium, abdominal distention, and possibly bilious vomiting. An abdominal x-ray might also show evidence of dilated bowel loops, as seen here, although usually the small bowel is affected rather than the colon. While the clinical presentation would be similar to that seen in this patient, the findings of explosive stool release upon rectal examination and the association with Down syndrome is more suggestive of Hirschsprung disease.

Image File: 624-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d909863dc.jpg

