### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Filling defect of the rectosigmoid colon** - The rectosigmoid colon is the most commonly involved site of colorectal carcinoma, followed by the ascending colon and then the descending colon. Lumen constriction caused by circumferential tumor growth results in a characteristic apple core lesion filling defect on double-contrast barium enema study. Colorectal carcinoma should be suspected as an underlying cause of iron deficiency anemia in men > 50 years of age and postmenopausal women. Left-sided colorectal carcinomas, which involve the rectosigmoid colon and/or the descending colon, are more likely to cause obstructive symptoms (e.g., straining during defecation, decrease in stool caliber) than right-sided colorectal carcinomas, which involve the ascending colon.

Image File: 627-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f911a1a54c5d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Thumbprint sign of the transverse colon** - Thumbprint sign is caused by bowel wall thickening and associated with several conditions, including ischemic colitis and inflammatory bowel disease. These conditions typically cause abdominal pain and diarrhea, which this patient does not have. Moreover, ischemic colitis does not cause obstructive symptoms (e.g., straining during defecation, decrease in stool caliber). Patients with recurrent exacerbations of Crohn disease can develop obstructive symptoms due to stricture formation, but the development of these complications in a patient with no prior history of Crohn disease exacerbations is unlikely.

**B - Lead pipe sign of the descending colon** - Lead pipe sign on double-contrast barium enema is a characteristic finding in patients with ulcerative colitis. This condition can develop in older adults and cause iron deficiency anemia due to chronic bleeding. However, this patient lacks classic manifestations of ulcerative colitis such as bloody diarrhea with mucus, abdominal pain, and tenesmus. Moreover, this condition does not typically cause obstructive symptoms (e.g., straining during defecation, decrease in stool caliber).

**C - Diverticula in the sigmoid colon** - Diverticular disease, which typically arises in the sigmoid colon, commonly affects older adults. Diverticulosis can cause iron deficiency anemia due to chronic bleeding, and patients with recurrent diverticulitis can develop obstructive symptoms (e.g., straining during defecation, decrease in stool caliber) due to inflammatory stenosis and subsequent stricture formation. However, this patient has no history of diverticulitis, which typically manifests with fever, left lower quadrant pain, and leukocytosis.

**D - Protruding mass in the proximal ileum** - A protruding mass in the proximal ileum raises concern for small bowel cancer, which can cause a positive fecal occult blood test and iron deficiency anemia due to chronic bleeding. However, small bowel cancer does not typically cause obstructive symptoms (e.g., straining during defecation, decrease in stool caliber).

**F - String sign in the terminal ileum** - A string sign in the distal ileum (which can be seen on a barium swallow study, not a double-contrast barium enema study) is a characteristic finding in patients with Crohn disease. This condition can develop in older adults and cause iron deficiency anemia due to chronic bleeding. However, this patient lacks classic manifestations of Crohn disease such as diarrhea and abdominal pain. Patients with recurrent exacerbations of Crohn disease can develop obstructive symptoms (e.g., straining during defecation, decrease in stool caliber) due to stricture formation. However, the development of these complications in a patient with no prior history of Crohn disease exacerbations is unlikely.

