### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - IgG deamidated gliadin peptide test** - A test for deamidated gliadin peptide antibodies is indicated when IgA anti-tissue transglutaminase antibodies are absent but celiac disease is nonetheless suspected.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Plasma zinc concentration** - Zinc deficiency may occur in patients with celiac disease as a result of intestinal malabsorption but is not a routine part of workup of the condition. Regardless, adults with zinc deficiency usually present with dermatitis, which is not present in this patient.

**B - Endoscopy with biopsies** - A duodenal biopsy is required to definitively diagnose celiac disease. However, given the cost and invasive nature of this procedure, another less invasive test should be conducted before confirming the diagnosis.

**C - Fecal fat test** - Qualitative and/or quantitative fecal fat tests, which are used to confirm the diagnosis of steatorrhea, are helpful in evaluating patients with clinical features of malabsorption syndromes and/or deficiencies of fat-soluble vitamins. While steatorrhea may be present in patients with celiac disease, a fecal fat test does not reveal anything about the possible cause of this woman's symptoms and is therefore of little diagnostic value.

**D - Stool for ova and parasites** - Stool microscopy for ova and parasites is indicated to rule out intestinal parasitic infection. Tropical sprue due to infections (e.g., giardiasis) can present with clinical features similar to those of celiac disease, such as chronic diarrhea and abdominal bloating. However, irregular menstrual cycles and infertility are typically not seen with parasitic infections. Also, since this patient has no travel history to a tropical country, tropical sprue is unlikely.

**F - IgA endomysial antibody** - IgA endomysial antibodies are antibodies produced against a special form of the enzyme transglutaminase that is present in the endomysium of intestinal smooth muscle. IgA endomysial antibody may be used to diagnose gluten hypersensitivities (e.g., celiac disease, dermatitis herpetiformis). However, this test is difficult to perform and difficult to interpret properly and is therefore not used frequently in the diagnosis of celiac disease.

**G - Skin prick test** - Although skin prick tests are used to evaluate patients with suspected allergic disorders/atopy, they are not indicated in the diagnosis of celiac disease.

