### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Abdominal CT scan** - An abdominal contrast-enhanced CT scan is the best initial imaging modality for patients with suspected chronic pancreatitis (CP). Although a CT scan does not have the highest sensitivity in detecting early stages of chronic pancreatitis, it is recommended that an abdominal contrast-enhanced CT is obtained first in all patients with suspected CP, especially those patients with chronic epigastric pain and recent weight loss to rule out pancreatic carcinoma or a gastrointestinal malignancy as the possible cause of these symptoms. Characteristic findings of CP include pancreatic atrophy, ductal calcifications, and pancreatic ductal dilation, as well as alternating dilation and strictures of the main pancreatic duct (chain of lakes appearance). Complications of CP, such as pseudocysts, duodenal stenosis, and malignancy, can also be identified.

Image File: 630-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_61039e1614855.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Measurement of serum cancer antigen 19-9** - Measurement of baseline levels of the tumor marker CA 19-9 is not indicated for chronic pancreatitis but in patients who are diagnosed with pancreatic cancer to monitor disease progression and response to therapy (i.e., CA 19-9 is a prognostic indicator). In patients with a pancreatic lesion on imaging, serum CA 19-9 levels may help differentiate between a malignant (CA 19-9 would be elevated) and a benign lesion. However, CA 19-9 is not an appropriate initial test because it is neither sensitive (may be normal in small pancreatic cancers) nor specific (is elevated in other abdominal malignancies and a few benign conditions) for pancreatic cancer.

**C - Endoscopic ultrasonography** - An endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) can identify early parenchymal changes in the pancreas in patients with suspected chronic pancreatitis (CP). The EUS probe is in close proximity to the pancreas, enabling better visualization of the organ. The presence of ductal irregularities, cysts, calculi, or hyperechoic foci within the pancreatic parenchyma on EUS is diagnostic of CP. However, it is an invasive test and is therefore reserved for cases in which other tests are not diagnostic.

**D - Abdominal ultrasound** - An abdominal ultrasound (AUS) can be used to detect late findings of chronic pancreatitis including pancreatic ductal calcifications and/or ductal irregularity/dilation, which are pathognomonic features of chronic pancreatitis (CP), as well as pancreatic pseudocysts, a common complication. However, an AUS is not a sensitive imaging modality for the pancreas because it is a retroperitoneal organ that is not easily visualized through the overlying bowel loops. An unremarkable AUS exam in a patient with suspected CP does not rule out the diagnosis. A different test is recommended as the initial test for suspected CP.

**E - Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy** - An upper gastrointestinal endoscopy is useful to diagnose a pathology in the upper gastrointestinal tract (e.g., peptic ulcer disease, GERD, malignancy) that may present with recurrent upper abdominal pain and weight loss, as seen in this patient. However, these symptoms in conjunction with steatorrhea and chronic alcohol abuse, make chronic pancreatitis (CP) more likely. Steatorrhea occurs in chronic pancreatitis due to deficiency of pancreatic lipase. Upper GI endoscopy cannot visualize the pancreas and is not a recommended diagnostic tool for CP.

**F - Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography** - ERCP is the most sensitive and most specific test for chronic pancreatitis (CP), even in early stages of the disease. However, it is not performed routinely because it is an invasive procedure with radiation exposure and high costs. Typical features of CP on ERCP include pancreatic ductal dilation, ductal strictures, and intra-ductal calcification. It does not delineate the pancreatic parenchyma and cannot rule out other intra-abdominal pathologies (e.g., GI malignancies) that may present with similar features (e.g., recurrent epigastric pain, weight loss). Therefore, it is reserved for patients with suspected CP and equivocal results on other tests.

**G - Abdominal x-ray** - Abdominal x-ray can be used to detect calcifications in the region of the pancreas (around the 2nd lumbar vertebra), which is a specific sign of chronic pancreatitis (CP). However, this sign is positive in only 30% of patients with CP. Pancreatic atrophy, pancreatic ductal dilations or strictures, which are also common findings in CP, cannot be visualized using an x-ray. Therefore, an abdominal x-ray has only limited applicability in the workup of CP.

