### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Diverticulitis** - This patient's fever, nausea, vomiting, acute changes in bowel habits, and abdominal pain are highly suggestive of a diagnosis of diverticulitis, a condition that can develop along any part along the colon but most commonly involves the sigmoid colon (causing left lower quadrant pain). Her 12-month history of intermittent constipation likely results in straining during bowel movements, which can lead to protrusion of herniated intestinal mucosa and submucosa through gaps in the muscular layer of the intestinal wall (i.e., diverticulosis). If stool gets lodged in diverticula, this can result in obstruction of the intestinal lumen, increased intraluminal pressure, and subsequent erosion and inflammation of diverticular walls (i.e., diverticulitis).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ischemic colitis** - Ischemic colitis can manifest with nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and acute-onset left lower quadrant abdominal pain (due to impaired blood flow to the rectosigmoid junction). In addition, hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus are risk factors for this condition. However, the diarrhea associated with this condition is characteristically bloody. Ischemic colitis is not associated with chronic constipation.

**B - Crohn disease** - Crohn disease is an inflammatory bowel disease that can manifest with fever, localized abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting. However, the pain associated with this condition typically manifests in the right lower quadrant, not the left lower quadrant, and is typically more insidious in nature. In addition, Crohn disease is associated with chronic diarrhea, not chronic constipation (though acute constipation can develop due to bowel obstruction). Moreover, this patient lacks other manifestations of this condition, such as malabsorption, abscess and fistula formation, and extraintestinal symptoms (e.g., oral ulcerations, episcleritis).

**C - Cholecystitis** - Cholecystitis can manifest with fever, localized abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting. However, the pain associated with this condition characteristically manifests in the right upper quadrant, not the left lower quadrant. In addition, cholecystitis is not associated with chronic constipation or acute changes in bowel habits.

**D - Irritable bowel syndrome** - Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) can manifest with abdominal pain and changes in bowel habits (e.g., changes in stool frequency and/or appearance). However, these symptoms are typically chronic in nature and associated with bloating and distention. In addition, the pain associated with IBS is typically diffuse, not localized, and is not associated with fever.

**E - Appendicitis** - Appendicitis can manifest with fever, localized abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and acute changes in bowel habits (e.g., diarrhea). Though this condition most commonly develops during childhood and adolescence, it can manifest at any age. However, the pain associated with appendicitis characteristically manifests in the periumbilical region and migrates to the right lower quadrant, not the left lower quadrant. In addition, appendicitis is not associated with chronic constipation.

**F - Ulcerative colitis** - Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory bowel disease that can manifest with fever, abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting. However, the pain associated with this condition is typically diffuse, not localized, and is more insidious in nature. In addition, ulcerative colitis is associated with chronic bloody diarrhea, not chronic constipation. Moreover, this patient lacks other manifestations of this condition, such as tenesmus and extraintestinal symptoms (e.g., uveitis, erythema nodosum).

