### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Contrast esophagography with gastrografin** - Iatrogenic trauma is the most common etiology of esophageal perforation, e.g., following upper endoscopy, as seen in this patient. While this patient's x-ray findings and Hamman sign already suggest pneumomediastinum, gastrografin contrast esophagography is indicated as a confirmatory test to visualize the potential defect and assess its size and exact location. Gastrografin is preferred over barium as a contrast agent because it is water-soluble and less irritating; extravasation of barium may cause mediastinitis and subsequent fibrosis. There is no free air under the diaphragms on CXR, thus gastric perforation is unlikely.

Image File: 632-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60b8725ae6d72.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Coronary angiography** - Coronary angiography may be indicated in the workup of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) if elevated troponins confirm myocardial infarction. As this patient's troponin level is normal despite epigastric pain lasting over one day, a myocardial infarction that might warrant coronary angiography is very unlikely. Additionally, ACS would not explain the mediastinal emphysema present on examination.

**B - Contrast-enhanced CT of the aorta** - A contrast-enhanced CT scan of the aorta can be used to evaluate for aortic pathologies, e.g., aortic dissection. Although this patient has several risk factors for aortic dissection (e.g., hypertension, smoking) and tearing pain that radiates to his back, mediastinal emphysema would not be an expected finding in a patient with aortic dissection. Also, patients with aortic dissection often have asymmetrical blood pressure and pulse readings between the limbs. This patient's symptoms after upper endoscopy suggest another diagnosis.

Image File: 632-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d926345a1.jpg

**C - Esophagogastroduodenoscopy** - Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) should be delayed in this patient with suspected iatrogenic esophageal perforation as the endoscope and/or air insufflation may cause further dissection of the perforation. If esophageal rupture is suspected, diagnostic endoscopy is reserved for patients with a poorly localized esophageal perforation on standard imaging and in whom endoscopic treatment is indicated. EGD should be considered if this patient's symptoms of burning epigastric pain were due to worsening gastritis – however, mediastinal emphysema is highly suggestive of esophageal perforation.

**D - Abdominal ultrasound** - Abdominal ultrasound is the most useful initial test for diagnosing acute pancreatitis. Although this patient's radiating upper abdominal pain and history of alcohol use may suggest acute pancreatitis, his normal lipase level makes pancreatic involvement highly unlikely. In addition, pancreatitis does not explain subcutaneous emphysema present on exam. An abdominal ultrasound would have limited utility in establishing the diagnosis in this case.

**F - Barium swallow** - Although a barium swallow is commonly used to detect changes of the esophageal wall, e.g., strictures, dilations, or neoplastic growths, if water-insoluble barium enters the mediastinum through a perforation (e.g., traumatic perforation, as suspected in this patient, or Boerhaave syndrome), it may induce inflammation, causing mediastinitis and subsequent mediastinal fibrosis. Another test is more appropriate for the initial diagnosis of esophageal perforation.

