### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Amoxicillin, clarithromycin, and omeprazole** - The vast majority of duodenal ulcers are caused by an underlying H. pylori infection. H. pylori eradication therapy, e.g., amoxicillin, clarithromycin, and omeprazole, heals > 90% of duodenal ulcers and prevents further complications, such as rebleeding, perforation, fistulation, or gastric outlet obstruction. In addition, this patient should be counseled on smoking cessation and restricting his alcohol intake, as both are important. H. pylori eradication therapy also prevents H. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis and gastric MALT lymphoma.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Truncal vagotomy** - Truncal vagotomy denervates the stomach, including the acid-producing parietal cells, and is therefore useful in preventing rebleeding and other complications of PUD, but it is not a first-line treatment due to its invasive nature. Instead, truncal vagotomy is indicated for recurring PUD-related bleeding despite maximal nonsurgical therapy or in those who are dependent on steroids/NSAIDs for other conditions, as they are at a higher risk of developing complications. A drainage procedure, such as pyloroplasty or gastrojejunostomy, should be combined with truncal vagotomy because the procedure interferes with normal gastric emptying.

**C - Fundoplication, hiatoplasty, and gastropexy** - Fundoplication, hiatoplasty, and gastropexy are performed for symptomatic hiatal hernias (HH) but not duodenal ulcers. Sliding HHs can manifest with features of GERD, while other types (paraesophageal, mixed, and complex) mostly manifest with epigastric/substernal pain and early satiety (since a portion of the stomach lies in the thorax). Symptoms of an HH can be aggravated by eating (due to increased acid reflux), but this occurs immediately after meals rather than after 3 hours, as seen in this patient. In addition, melena is a very uncommon presentation of HH.

**D - Distal gastrectomy with gastroduodenostomy** - Distal gastrectomy (or antrectomy) removes the acid-producing section of the stomach. Gastrointestinal continuity is then restored by performing either a gastroduodenostomy (Billroth I reconstruction) or a gastrojejunostomy (Billroth II reconstruction). Although distal gastrectomy is a highly effective procedure, it is a last-resort measure for treating peptic ulcers that are refractory to other treatment options.

**E - Intravenous vitamin B12 supplementation** - Intravenous vitamin B12 would prevent the onset of megaloblastic anemia and neurological complications of vitamin B12 deficiency in patients with autoimmune metaplastic atrophic gastritis (secondary to destruction of intrinsic factor-secreting parietal cells). Atrophic gastritis can cause postprandial epigastric pain and melena, like in this patient. However, epigastric pain characteristic of atrophic gastritis occurs immediately after meals rather than after 3 hours or at night. Pain relief with eating is also not typical of atrophic gastritis. While autoimmune metaplastic atrophic gastritis cannot be entirely excluded without further diagnostics, duodenal ulcer is more likely in this patient and, therefore, another treatment would be more appropriate.

**F - Ranitidine and pantoprazole** - Acid suppression promotes ulcer healing and decreases the risk of future complications. Proton-pump inhibitors such as pantoprazole are the treatment of choice for H. pylori-negative peptic ulcers. However, because the majority of all duodenal ulcers are related to infection with H. pylori, especially in individuals who are not taking NSAIDs, such as this patients, acid suppression alone would not prevent further complications of the disease as effectively as a different treatment. Furthermore, double antisecretory agents (i.e., an H2 blocker like ranitidine and a PPI like pantoprazole) provide no additional benefit over treatment with PPIs alone. For this reason, this combination is not recommended.

