### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Colonoscopy** - Colonoscopy with biopsy is used for the screening of colorectal cancer and is also the recommended test for diagnosing inflammatory bowel disease, including ulcerative colitis. Typical findings of colonoscopy in patients with ulcerative colitis include inflamed, reddened mucosa, bleeding on contact with the endoscope, and fibrin-covered ulcers.

Image File: 636-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_53d8f0de9e52a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Flexible sigmoidoscopy** - Flexible sigmoidoscopy may be used in the screening of colorectal cancer and to evaluate for inflammatory bowel disease, including ulcerative colitis. However, it is not the best test for these purposes because it does not allow the entire colon to be visualized.

**C - D-xylose absorption test** - A D-xylose absorption test is indicated to diagnose malabsorption syndrome, which may be caused by disorders such as celiac, Whipple disease, or inflammatory bowel disease and presents with fatigue, chronic diarrhea, steatorrhea, and weight loss. However, this patient does not have steatorrhea or weight loss, which makes malabsorption unlikely at this time. Additionally, a D-xylose absorption test is neither routinely conducted nor recommended as an initial test if there is strong suspicion of ulcerative colitis.

**D - CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis with contrast** - CT of the abdomen and pelvis with contrast can be useful for differentiating between ulcerative colitis and Crohn disease. However, it is neither routinely conducted nor recommended as an initial test if there is strong suspicion of ulcerative colitis.

**E - Capsule endoscopy** - Although capsule endoscopy may help to visualize typical lesions of ulcerative colitis, its role in the diagnosis of the disease is limited because it does not allow tissue samples to be taken for biopsy.

