### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Focal weakness of the colonic muscularis layer** - Focal weakness of the colonic muscularis layer, typically at points where the vasa recta traverse the intestinal wall, allows for the formation of protrusions of mucosal and submucosal layers in response to increased intraluminal pressure (e.g., from chronic constipation). These protrusions (i.e., diverticula) are referred to as “pseudodiverticula” because not all layers of the intestinal wall are affected. Diverticulosis is the asymptomatic presence of these protrusions (identified as air-filled pouches on CT). Diverticulitis is an acute inflammation of diverticula that typically manifests with bowel wall thickening on CT, fever, left-sided lower abdominal pain, and bloody, mucoid diarrhea, all of which are seen in this patient. Risk factors for diverticular disease include diet (low in fiber, high in red meat and fat), BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2, lack of physical activity, and smoking (≥ 40 pack-years).

Image File: 637-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58a6cb97ad453.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Infiltrative growth in the descending colon** - An infiltrative growth in the descending colon is consistent with left-sided colorectal cancer (CRC). CRC can manifest with changes in bowel habits (e.g., diarrhea), rectal bleeding, and abdominal pain. However, as opposed to this patient's acute presentation, symptoms usually develop over a long period of time. Moreover, nonspecific symptoms (e.g., weight loss, night sweats, fatigue) would be expected at that point. Also, a CT scan typically shows a soft tissue density mass causing narrowing of the bowel lumen; adjacent air-filled pouches are not found in this condition.

**C - Transmural inflammation of the terminal ileum** - Transmural inflammation of the terminal ileum is consistent with Crohn disease (CD). CD may manifest with low-grade fever, abdominal pain, and bloody diarrhea, as seen in this patient. However, he lacks other typical features of CD such as signs of malabsorption (e.g., weight loss, anemia) and extraintestinal symptoms (e.g., arthritis, erythema nodosum). A CT scan of a patient with CD may show bowel wall thickening, fat stranding, and strictures or fistulas; air-filled pouches are not typically seen in this condition.

**D - Twisting of the sigmoid colon around its mesentery** - Twisting of the sigmoid colon around its mesentery is consistent with sigmoid volvulus, which can lead to bowel obstruction, infarction, and/or perforation. Sigmoid volvulus typically manifests with episodic abdominal pain, asymmetric abdominal distention, and progressive signs of bowel obstruction. In severe cases, rectal bleeding, hematemesis, and peritonitis may also be present. CT scan typically shows gas-filled loops of bowel, twisting of the mesentery and mesenteric vessels (whirl sign), and gradual narrowing or tapering of the sigmoid colon up to the level of obstruction (bird beak sign), none of which are seen here.

Image File: 637-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fab98ca997e1.jpg

**E - Decreased perfusion to mesenteric blood vessel** - Decreased perfusion to the mesenteric blood vessels can lead to acute mesenteric ischemia (AMI) and can be caused by an arterial embolism (most common), arterial thrombus, low cardiac output, and/or venous thrombosis. AMI characteristically manifests with severe acute periumbilical pain out of proportion to physical examination findings and, in later stages, bloody diarrhea and rectal bleeding, which is not consistent with this patient's presentation. CT findings include intestinal pneumatosis, mesenteric stranding, and bowel wall thickening and distension; air-filled pouches are not typically seen in this condition.

**F - Mucosal ulcerations of the rectum** - Mucosal (and submucosal) ulcerations of the rectum are consistent with ulcerative colitis (UC). UC commonly manifests with low-grade fever, abdominal pain, and bloody diarrhea, as seen in this patient. Although a CT scan of a patient with UC usually shows bowel wall thickening, which is also seen here, adjacent air-filled pouches are not typical. In addition, patients with UC regularly have extraintestinal symptoms (e.g., ankylosing spondylitis, migratory monoarticular arthritis, erythema nodosum), none of which are present in this patient.

