### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Psoas muscle abscess** - This patient's combination of subacute flank pain, positive psoas sign, fever, and leukocytosis suggests a psoas abscess. A psoas abscess can either be classified as a primary abscess, caused by hematogenous spread of infection (e.g., bacteremia, endocarditis) or a secondary abscess, which is due to local spread of infection (e.g., osteomyelitis, pyelonephritis, trauma). Primary abscesses are most common, and diabetes is an important risk factor for primary abscess formation. Definitive diagnosis requires imaging with MRI or CT; ultrasound may allow for identification of a large abscess.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Urinary tract infection** - Urinary tract infection, including pyelonephritis, should always be considered in patients presenting with fever, leukocytosis, and urinary complaints. It is especially important to evaluate for UTI in patients with uncontrolled diabetes, as glucosuria increases the risk of infection. However, this patient's urinalysis is not consistent with UTI (e.g., no leukocyte esterase, nitrites). Moreover, although pyelonephritis could cause abdominal pain, this pain is typically located in the lumbar region (flank pain) rather than in the left lower quadrant, and is not aggravated by hip extension. Her urinary symptoms could be explained on the basis of glucosuria from her uncontrolled diabetes.

**B - Ectopic pregnancy** - In a woman of reproductive age presenting with subacute abdominal pain and a history of unprotected sexual activity, ectopic pregnancy should always be considered. A normal abdominal ultrasound does not rule out this diagnosis, but her negative urine pregnancy test makes ectopic pregnancy very unlikely.

**C - Nephrolithiasis** - Nephrolithiasis can also present with urinary complaints and flank pain. However, pain from nephrolithiasis is typically of a colicky nature, waxing and waning due to ureteral contractions. Furthermore, urinalysis would typically show hematuria, as well as possible leukocytes and/or crystals. The duration of this patient's symptoms (2 weeks) is also longer than would be expected for nephrolithiasis.

**E - Uterine leiomyoma** - Fibroids may present with subacute abdominal and/or back pain and can also cause urinary frequency due to external compression of the bladder. They are usually diagnosed via pelvic ultrasound; fibroids appear as concentric, hypoechoic, heterogeneous tumors on the uterus. Fibroids would not cause fever or leukocytosis, making this an unlikely diagnosis.

**F - Anterior cutaneous nerve entrapment** - Anterior cutaneous nerve entrapment syndrome is an often overlooked cause of chronic abdominal pain and may be confused with visceral pain from intra-abdominal structures. This patient has fever and leukocytosis, however, which is not consistent with anterior cutaneous nerve entrapment.

**G - Appendicitis** - Appendicitis classically presents with fever, leukocytosis, and right lower quadrant pain. The psoas sign may also be positive in appendicitis, especially in the case of a retrocecal appendix. However, symptoms in appendicitis usually develop more acutely (within hours or days), and left-sided pain would be unusual. Moreover, this patient does not show other typical symptoms, such as anorexia, nausea, and vomiting.

