### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Gallbladder adenocarcinoma** - While the exact pathophysiology of porcelain gallbladder is unknown, it is associated with cholelithiasis and chronic gallbladder inflammation. It is often identified incidentally on abdominal imaging, although it may present with right upper quadrant pain, as in this patient. There is a small but significant risk of developing gallbladder adenocarcinoma, so the recommended treatment is cholecystectomy.

Image File: 639-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91a76f9b.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bowel obstruction** - Common risk factors for bowel obstruction include prior abdominal surgery (resulting in scarring and bowel adhesions), malignancy, strictures, gallstone ileus, and incarcerated hernias. This patient does not have any history of these risk factors. Porcelain gallbladder is not associated with bowel obstruction.

**C - Gallbladder perforation** - Gallbladder perforation is a potential complication of cholelithiasis and cholecystitis. While both cholelithiasis and cholecystitis can also present with intermittent RUQ pain, another answer option more directly addresses the major risk of porcelain gallbladder.

**D - Pancreatic adenocarcinoma** - The two greatest risk factors for pancreatic cancer are smoking and chronic pancreatitis. CT is generally the initial imaging modality used for diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis, and classic findings include pancreatic atrophy, ductal dilatation, calcification, and/or pseudocyst formation, none of which is seen here. Porcelain gallbladder is not a risk factor for pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

**E - Hepatocellular carcinoma** - The two greatest risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma are liver cirrhosis and chronic viral hepatitis (usually HBV or HCV). This patient doesn't have any history to suggest underlying chronic viral hepatitis (e.g., jaundice, hepatomegaly, history of IVDU) or show any stigmata of cirrhosis (e.g., abdominal distention, hepatomegaly, ascites, spider angiomas, peripheral edema). Porcelain gallbladder is not a risk factor for hepatocellular carcinoma.

**F - Acute pancreatitis** - The most common risk factors for acute pancreatitis are excessive alcohol consumption and cholelithiasis. Porcelain gallbladder, as seen in this patient, is not associated with increased risk of acute pancreatitis. Also, this patient's amount of alcohol consumption would be unlikely to result in acute pancreatitis.

**G - Pyogenic liver abscess** - Pyogenic liver abscess refers to the formation of a bacterial abscess within the liver. This patient does not exhibit any of the common risk factors for the development of a pyogenic liver abscess, such as biliary obstruction, gastrointestinal illness, bacteremia, or pancreatitis. Porcelain gallbladder is not a risk factor for pyogenic liver abscess.

