### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Upper endoscopy** - Both a CT scan of the abdomen and an upper endoscopy can be used to confirm the diagnosis of structural GOO. In cases of suspected malignant GOO, endoscopic evaluation with biopsy is the preferred method to obtain a histological diagnosis. Endoscopy can also provide short-term treatment with stent placement or dilation. This patient's age, weight loss, and alcohol use are concerning for gastric cancer, and thus an upper endoscopy is the diagnostic test of choice.

Previously, most cases of GOO were caused by peptic ulcer disease (PUD). The declining prevalence of H. pylori infection and the efficacy of proton pump inhibitors in the treatment of PUD has significantly decreased the incidence of GOO due to PUD.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Esophageal manometry** - Esophageal manometry is helpful in diagnosing esophageal dysmotility disorders (e.g., achalasia, diffuse esophageal spasms). These conditions can present with regurgitation and weight loss, as seen in this patient. However, symptom onset is typically more insidious than seen in this case, and a succussion splash would not be expected because the level of the obstruction is proximal to the stomach.

**B - Esophageal pH monitoring** - Esophageal pH monitoring can be used in the diagnosis of GERD. Patients with a prolonged history of uncontrolled GERD are at increased risk for esophageal adenocarcinoma, which can lead to obstruction. However, this obstruction would lie proximal to the stomach and would therefore not cause GOO. Esophageal pH monitoring would not be an appropriate test for the diagnosis of GOO.

**C - Abdominal ultrasound** - An abdominal ultrasound can be used in the diagnosis of gallbladder pathology (e.g., cholecystitis, cholelithiasis). It is also used as an initial screening test for structural abdominal masses such as a malignant tumor; however, an abdominal ultrasound is not a confirmatory diagnostic test. This patient's presentation is concerning for GOO caused by a malignant obstruction, which cannot be confirmed by abdominal ultrasound.

**D - Fecal elastase measurement** - Fecal elastase measurement can be used to evaluate for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency as seen in chronic pancreatitis. Although this patient's alcohol use, weight loss, and nausea are concerning for chronic pancreatitis, he lacks other commonly associated symptoms, e.g., chronic abdominal pain and steatorrhea.

**F - CT angiography** - CT angiography is used to test for suspected acute mesenteric ischemia (AMI). AMI presents with acute onset, severe abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhea, and, in later stages, hematochezia. AMI is often described as “pain out of proportion to the physical exam.” Although this patient's history of hypercholesterolemia is a risk factor for AMI, his clinical presentation is inconsistent; he has progressive vomiting without significant abdominal pain, and he has obstipation as opposed to diarrhea.

