### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography** - Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) are the imaging modalities of choice for confirming primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC). These tests typically show multifocal strictures alternating with dilation, as well as beading of both intrahepatic and extrahepatic bile ducts (pearl necklace sign). This patient's chronic fatigue, scleral icterus, dark urine, and elevated cholestatic parameters (ALP, direct bilirubin) are indicative of cholestasis, which can occur as a result of the bile duct obstruction in PSC. This condition typically affects middle-aged men, manifests with right upper quadrant tenderness and cholestasis, and is associated with positive pANCAs (approx. 80% of cases). Liver biopsy, although not routinely indicated, can further support the diagnosis of PSC and typically shows “onion skin” scarring and fibrosis of bile ducts.

Image File: 643-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_601c03528cf35.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hepatitis B surface antigen assay** - Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) confirms the diagnosis of an active hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. An acute HBV infection, though asymptomatic in most cases, may manifest with fatigue, jaundice, and mildly elevated transaminases, as seen here. The patient's sexual history also puts him at increased risk of HBV infection. However, the positive hepatitis B surface antigen antibodies (anti-HBs) indicate that he is either vaccinated or has had an HBV infection in the past, making an active HBV infection an unlikely diagnosis.

**B - Contrast-enhanced abdominal CT scan** - A contrast-enhanced abdominal CT scan can be used in the diagnostic workup of patients with cholestasis and helps to differentiate intrahepatic from extrahepatic causes. However, this patient's underlying condition cannot be confirmed by a CT scan, because visible findings (e.g., irregular diameter of the bile duct, diffuse thickening of the wall of the common hepatic and bile ducts) would be unspecific.

**D - Serum antimitochondrial antibody assay** - Testing for antimitochondrial antibodies (AMAs) is highly sensitive and specific for primary biliary cholangitis (PBC), with AMAs found in more than 95% of individuals with this condition. PBC often manifests with fatigue, jaundice, and elevated cholestasis parameters (ALP, direct bilirubin), as seen in this patient. However, PBC is much more common in women and is not associated with ulcerative colitis or positive pANCAs, both of which are seen in this patient.

**E - Abdominal ultrasonography** - Abdominal ultrasonography can be used in the diagnostic workup of patients with cholestasis and helps to distinguish between intrahepatic and extrahepatic causes. This patient's underlying condition, however, cannot be confirmed by an abdominal ultrasound, because visible findings (e.g., irregular diameter of the bile duct, diffuse thickening of the wall of the common hepatic and bile ducts) would be unspecific.

