### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Give baby a chilled rubber ring** - Teething is best treated by allowing the baby to chew on a chilled (not frozen) teething device or applying pressure to the baby's gum using clean fingers or wet gauze. The teething device should be in one piece to prevent choking or injury to the mouth and should not be dipped in sugary substances to avoid causing dental caries. Systemic analgesics (e.g., acetaminophen, ibuprofen) are reserved for teething pain not effectively managed with conservative interventions.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer scheduled acetaminophen** - Scheduled acetaminophen administration is indicated for infants with teething syndrome that cannot be managed with other methods. The treatment of teething is primarily palliative and nonpharmacologic methods should first be attempted before systemic analgesia is used.

**C - Apply topical lidocaine to gums** - Topic anesthetics (e.g., lidocaine, benzocaine) should be avoided in infants due to the high risk of intoxication and serious adverse reactions. For example, the use of benzocaine sprays or gels has been associated with inducing life-threatening methemoglobinemia in infants.

**D - Obtain complete blood count and stool culture** - Laboratory studies and stool cultures are indicated for infectious workup of diarrheal illness. This patient's symptoms are most likely the result of teething, and diarrhea can occur as a part of teething syndrome, so further workup is unnecessary in the absence of other signs of infection (i.e., normal abdominal examination, appropriate stool color, normal vital signs).

**E - Let baby chew on clean washcloth dipped in sugar-water** - Allowing babies to chew on a washcloth is appropriate for the treatment of teething syndrome, but dipping teething devices in sugary water should be avoided because this increases the risk of dental caries.

