### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Metastatic colorectal cancer** - This patient presents with weight loss, low-grade fever, lower gastrointestinal complaints (i.e., constipation), and evidence of blood in stool (positive stool occult blood test). This contrast-enhanced CT scan shows multiple hypodense solitary lesions with peripheral rim enhancement in both lobes of the liver, characteristic of hepatic metastases. These features are highly suggestive of a primary colorectal malignancy that has metastasized to the liver, the most frequent metastatic site for this condition. The palpable hepatomegaly with a hard nodule and mildly deranged liver function tests are caused by the metastatic deposits.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hepatic echinococcal cysts** - Echinococcus granulosus is endemic in Mexico. This patient's travel history to Mexico is a risk factor for the development of a hepatic echinococcal cyst (hydatid cyst) and the infection may be asymptomatic for months, presenting with tender hepatomegaly when large enough. However, echinococcal cysts do not cause constipation, fever, or weight loss. A hepatic echinococcal cyst is seen on contrast-enhanced CT scan (CECT) as an anechoic cyst with multiple septations and individual "daughter cysts” within the main cyst. The septations give the cyst a characteristic spoke wheel pattern. This patient's history and CECT with multiple, solid, nonseptate lesions that have a peripheral rim enhancement suggest another diagnosis.

**B - Liver hemangioma** - A liver hemangioma, when symptomatic, causes upper gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., abdominal pain, nausea, early satiety) in contrast to this patient's primarily lower gastrointestinal symptoms (intermittent constipation with abdominal distention). Furthermore, liver hemangiomas do not cause weight loss or blood in the stool. On contrast-enhanced CT scan, liver hemangioma can also appear as a hypodense lesion with peripheral rim enhancement but are usually solitary.

**C - Cholangiocarcinoma** - Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas (IHC) may present with weight loss and hepatomegaly in the absence of cholestasis (jaundice, pruritus), as in this patient. On contrast-enhanced CT scan, a mass-forming IHC is seen as a hypodense lesion with peripheral rim enhancement. However, IHCs are usually solitary, the center of the lesion shows heterogenic echogenicity (compared to the anechoic centers in this patient) and dilation of the intrahepatic bile ducts. IHCs do not cause constipation or occult blood in stool, and ALP is usually elevated in IHC but is normal in this patient.

**D - Hepatocellular carcinoma** - Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) may present with weight loss, abdominal distention, and deranged liver function tests, as in this case. However, HCC does not cause lower gastrointestinal complaints or occult blood in stool. On contrast-enhanced CT scan, HCC appears as a solitary hepatic lesion that characteristically enhances brightly in the arterial phase and appears hypodense in the venous phase due to the rapid contrast washout. Although this patient's CT scan also shows hypodense lesions, the presence of multiple lesions and only minimal rim enhancement in the arterial phase makes HCC an unlikely diagnosis.

**F - Cirrhosis** - Daily consumption of alcohol is a risk factor for the development of cirrhosis. Compensated cirrhotic patients may present with nonspecific symptoms (fatigue, weight loss) in the absence of jaundice, ascites, or variceal bleed. Also, mild derangement of liver function tests may be present, as in this case. Evidence of occult blood in stool may occur in cirrhosis in the case of a minor gastrointestinal bleed (secondary to esophageal/gastric varices). However, a contrast-enhanced CT scan would show multiple regenerative isoechoic nodules of the hepatic parenchyma in cirrhosis unlike the multiple hypodense solid lesions with anechoic center and peripheral rim enhancement seen in this patient's scan.

**G - Liver abscess** - A liver abscess may also present with fever, blood in stool, tender hepatomegaly, and mild derangement of liver function tests. However, patients with a pyogenic liver abscess would have features of sepsis (tachycardia, tachypnea) and often, a history of intra-abdominal infection (diarrhea, cholangitis, appendicitis). Mexico is endemic for Entamoeba histolytica and this patient's recent travel history may suggest that she contracted an amebic liver abscess. But most amebic liver abscesses are solitary and this patient's history of weight loss precedes her trip to Mexico. A liver abscess is usually seen on contrast-enhanced CT scan as a solitary, well-defined, fluid-filled hypodense lesion with surrounding hyperemic hepatic parenchyma, unlike the solid lesions seen in this case.

