### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Start annual colonoscopy starting in 8 years** - Annual colonoscopies are part of the health maintenance regimen in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) because affected individuals have a higher risk of developing colorectal cancer (CRC). The incidence of CRC begins to rise significantly 8–10 years after the onset of IBD symptoms. This patient has manifestations of an acute exacerbation of ulcerative colitis. She should be initiated on pharmacotherapy and advised to undergo annual or biannual colonoscopy after 8–10 years.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Obtain genetic studies now** - Genetic studies are indicated when a hereditary polyposis syndrome is suspected (e.g., when multiple polyps are detected in the gastrointestinal tract or if there is a family history of polyposis syndrome or early-onset gastrointestinal malignancy). Although colonic polyps were detected on this patient's colonoscopy, the biopsy confirmed them to be inflammatory pseudopolyps, which are characteristic of ulcerative colitis (UC). The pathogenesis of UC is a complex interplay of genetics, environmental factors, and immune factors; genetic studies are not routinely recommended during the evaluation of this condition.

**C - Obtain glutamate dehydrogenase antigen immunoassay now** - A glutamate dehydrogenase antigen immunoassay is used to screen for Clostridioides difficile infection. C. difficile colitis typically causes painful, bloody diarrhea and is most commonly associated with prior antibiotic use (especially penicillins and macrolides). This patient has no reported history of antibiotic therapy. In addition, her chronic symptoms and biopsy findings are indicative of a diagnosis of inflammatory bowel disease. Moreover, colonoscopy features of C. difficile colitis range from normal findings to red, friable mucosa covered in pseudomembranes, which this patient does not have.

**D - Start annual magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography screening in 10 years** - Patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) have a higher risk of developing primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC), an extraintestinal manifestation of UC. However, routine magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) screening for PSC is not recommended in the absence of symptoms (e.g., pruritus, obstructive jaundice, dark urine, light-colored stools) or abnormal liver function tests. Should this patient develop signs or symptoms of PSC, then MRCP would be recommended.

**E - Obtain computed tomographic enterography in 6 months** - CT enterography is used to detect the extent and pattern of small intestinal involvement in patients with Crohn disease. However, this patient's colonoscopy and biopsy findings indicate a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis (UC). The small intestine is not affected in patients with UC; enterography is not indicated.

**F - Obtain barium follow-through radiography in 1 year** - Barium follow-through radiography is used to detect intestinal fistulae in patients inflammatory bowel disease. Fistulae occur more commonly in patients with Crohn disease because this disease causes transmural inflammation of the bowel. However, this patient's colonoscopy and biopsy results indicate a diagnosis of ulcerative colitis.

