### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Mesalamine therapy** - This patient has mild ulcerative colitis, which is defined as having < 4 stools/day (that can occasionally be bloody) and lacking signs of systemic illness (e.g., fever, tachycardia, anemia, and an ESR ≥ 30 mm/h). The first-line treatment for mild UC is topical 5-aminosalicylic acid derivatives like mesalamine, since they are effective in controlling the symptoms of mild UC and have fewer adverse effects than glucocorticoids. Other 5-aminosalicylic acid derivatives include sulfasalazine and olsalazine. Mesalamine can be administered topically (enemas) as well as orally and has a milder side effect profile than sulfasalazine and olsalazine, making it the first choice in the treatment of mild UC.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Gluten-free diet** - A gluten-free diet is indicated as a diagnostic and therapeutic option in patients with suspected or confirmed celiac disease. Although recurrent abdominal pain, diarrhea, and fatigue are also seen in patients with celiac disease, bloody stools and inflamed, friable rectal mucosa on colonoscopy are not features of celiac disease.

**B - Proctocolectomy** - Proctocolectomy is an elective surgery for patients with refractory ulcerative colitis (UC), medication-induced side effects, and increased risk of malignancy (e.g., those with dysplastic polyps). Emergency proctocolectomy is indicated in patients with life-threatening complications due to UC such as toxic megacolon, colonic perforation or massive gastrointestinal hemorrhage. Since this adolescent has features of mild UC, has not yet received a trial of medical therapy, and has no symptoms of complications due to UC, a proctocolectomy is not the appropriate treatment at this time.

**D - Prednisone therapy** - Oral glucocorticoids, often in combination with mesalamine, are indicated in patients with moderate ulcerative colitis (defined as > 4 stools/day and minimal signs of systemic illness) who have failed to respond to topical corticosteroids. Since this patient has features of mild UC, initiating oral glucocorticoids as a first-line therapy is not the appropriate treatment.

**E - Infliximab therapy** - Although the benefits of infliximab have been clearly demonstrated in patients with Crohn's disease, the benefits of infliximab over surgery has not been demonstrated in patients with ulcerative colitis (UC). Infliximab is currently recommended only for the management of steroid-refractory UC in patients who are unwilling to undergo surgery and who have a contraindication for calcineurin inhibitors (e.g., those with renal disease, malignancies, uncontrolled hypertension). Since this adolescent shows features of mild UC, a first-line medical therapy should be initiated before considering immunosuppressants.

**F - Cyclosporine therapy** - Calcineurin inhibitors like cyclosporine and tacrolimus are indicated as rescue therapy for patients with steroid-refractory ulcerative colitis (patients who show no improvement after a 7–10-day trial of IV glucocorticoids). Since this patient only has signs of mild ulcerative colitis, immunosuppressants are not the most appropriate initial treatment at this stage.

