### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Endoscopic detorsion** - After fluid and electrolyte resuscitation, endoscopic detorsion (via sigmoidoscopy) is the best initial treatment for patients with sigmoid volvulus and no signs of peritonitis (e.g., abdominal rigidity/rebound tenderness). Endoscopic detorsion successfully reduces sigmoid volvuli in 90% of cases and allows colonic mucosa inspection for signs of ischemia (e.g., hemorrhage or bluish discoloration of the colon wall). Sigmoid colectomy is recommended ∼ 72 hours after reduction to reduce the high risk of recurrence. A rectal tube should be placed following endoscopic detorsion to allow for continued decompression of the colon until surgery. If a patient has peritonitis (suggesting bowel strangulation/infarction), signs of ischemia on endoscopy, or fails endoscopic detorsion, intravenous antibiotics and emergency sigmoid colectomy are required.

Image File: 654-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5def7aa601d1d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Exploratory laparotomy** - Exploratory laparotomy is indicated in patients with severe, acute abdominal pain and peritonitis, which is seen in sigmoid volvulus complicated by intestinal infarction or rupture. This patient lacks fever and peritonitis, making ischemia and rupture unlikely.

**B - Metoclopramide therapy** - Metoclopramide is a first-line treatment for gastroparesis, which also presents with abdominal discomfort. However, it also causes prominent nausea and vomiting. Additionally, the symptoms of gastroparesis tend to be subacute-to-chronic, progressive, and most significant after meals. Finally, abdominal radiographs of gastroparesis can show a distended stomach, rather than the coffee-bean sign seen in this patient.

**D - Intravenous antibiotic therapy** - IV antibiotic therapy (e.g., ciprofloxacin and metronidazole) is indicated in patients with sigmoid volvulus and signs of intestinal infarction/rupture (e.g., fever, peritonitis) or those who fail first-line treatment. This patient requires first-line treatment before antibiotics are indicated.

**E - Neostigmine therapy** - Neostigmine is part of the conservative treatment for acute colonic pseudo-obstruction, which presents similarly to this patient (acute bowel obstruction), but abdominal x-ray would show cecal and right colon dilation rather than the coffee-bean sign seen in this patient's radiograph.

**F - Colonoscopy** - Colonoscopy allows for endoscopic investigation of the colon and distal ileum and is a treatment option for colonic volvulus. However, the coffee-bean sign on this patient's abdominal radiograph indicates a sigmoid volvulus. Full endoscopy to the right colon and ileum is unnecessary.

**G - Rectal tube insertion** - A rectal tube is an important part of treatment for patients with sigmoid volvulus and is used for bowel decompression following the first-line treatment. However, another intervention is required to relieve the volvulus before a rectal tube would be indicated.

