### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Vibrio parahaemolyticus** - Vibrio parahaemolyticus gastroenteritis is typically caused by eating raw or undercooked shellfish (especially oysters). Patients present with fever, abdominal cramps, vomiting, and watery/bloody diarrhea 12–52 hours after ingesting the contaminated shellfish, as seen here. The infection is generally self-limiting. Other pathogens that can be transmitted through shellfish include Vibrio cholerae, Vibrio vulnificus, hepatitis A virus, hepatitis E virus, norovirus, and Paragonimus species.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Campylobacter jejuni** - Campylobacter jejuni causes a foodborne illness that manifests with fever, abdominal cramps, diarrhea and, occasionally, vomiting, as seen here. Although C. jejuni is typically transmitted via undercooked poultry or unpasteurized milk, shellfish has also been implicated in some cases of Campylobacter enteritis. Patients with Campylobacter enteritis usually have bloody diarrhea, with symptoms typically beginning 2–4 days after the ingestion of contaminated food. This woman, however, presents with watery diarrhea 1 day after visiting a seafood restaurant.

**B - Staphylococcus aureus** - Staphylococcus aureus enterotoxins cause a foodborne illness that manifests with fever, abdominal cramps, vomiting, and watery diarrhea, as seen here. However, the toxins are most commonly transmitted via processed meats, mayonnaise, custard, or nondairy creamers, not seafood. Moreover, symptoms typically begin within 1–4 hours of ingesting the contaminated food, unlike this patient's presentation 1 day after a restaurant visit.

**D - Listeria monocytogenes** - Listeria monocytogenes causes a foodborne illness that manifests with fever, abdominal cramps, vomiting, and watery diarrhea within 6 hours to 10 days of ingesting the contaminated food, as seen here. However, L. monocytogenes is typically transmitted via unpasteurized dairy products or ready-to-eat deli meats, not seafood.

**E - Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli** - Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) causes a foodborne illness that can manifest with fever, abdominal cramps, vomiting, and diarrhea, as seen here. However, EHEC is typically transmitted via undercooked meat, unpasteurized dairy products or fruit juices, not seafood. Moreover, patients usually have bloody diarrhea with symptoms beginning 2–10 days after ingesting contaminated food, unlike this patient who presents with watery diarrhea 1 day after eating at a seafood restaurant.

**F - Salmonella enterica** - Nontyphoidal serotypes of Salmonella enterica cause foodborne illnesses that manifest with fever, abdominal cramps, vomiting, and watery diarrhea within 6–72 hours of ingesting the contaminated food, as seen here. However, Salmonella enterica is typically transmitted via undercooked eggs, poultry, or unpasteurized milk products, not seafood. Infection with typhoidal serotypes of Salmonella enterica (e.g., S. Typhi, S. Paratyphi) causes enteric fever, which commonly begins 5–30 days after ingesting the contaminated food.

**G - Bacillus cereus** - Bacillus cereus enterotoxins can cause two forms of foodborne illness. The emetic form manifests with abdominal cramps, vomiting, and, occasionally, watery diarrhea, as seen here. However, the emetic toxins are typically transmitted via improperly refrigerated starch products (e.g., rice) rather than seafood, and the symptoms occur within 30 minutes to 6 hours of ingesting the contaminated food source. The diarrheal form has an incubation period of 6–15 hours and manifests with abdominal cramps and watery diarrhea, as seen here. However, vomiting would not be expected. Foods associated with diarrheal toxin-mediated disease include improperly refrigerated milk, meat, and vegetables. Fever would not be expected in either the emetic or diarrheal form of B. cereus infection.

