### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Liver hematoma** - A liver hematoma commonly results from blunt abdominal trauma such as falls. This patient has the typical features of liver injury, including ecchymoses over the right chest, pain in the right upper quadrant and the right chest, referred pain to the right shoulder (due to diaphragmatic irritation), and hemodynamic instability.

Image File: 657-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_604b657dd7512.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Splenic laceration** - The spleen is one of the most commonly injured organs during blunt abdominal trauma. Severe hemorrhage associated with splenic laceration often results in tachycardia and hypotension, which is seen in this patient. However, rather than right-sided pain, patients with splenic injury usually experience left-sided abdominal pain and left shoulder pain (“Kehr sign”).

**B - Small bowel perforation** - Small bowel perforation is a possible sequela of blunt abdominal trauma such as this patient's fall. While penetrating trauma may lead to immediate bowel injury and intestinal leakage, blunt abdominal trauma typically results in necrosis and delayed perforation after several days, making the diagnosis unlikely in this patient.

**C - Pneumothorax** - Pneumothorax may occur secondary to blunt chest trauma such as a falls. It presents with dyspnea and ipsilateral chest pain, as well as hemodynamic instability in the case of a tension pneumothorax (due to mediastinal compression and decreased venous return). However, the physical examination in patients with pneumothorax typically shows reduced or absent breath sounds over the affected lung. Tension pneumothorax would also manifest with jugular venous distention rather than the flat neck veins seen in this patient.

Image File: 657-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cc2ffcb27d83.jpg

**E - Duodenal hematoma** - Duodenal hematoma is a common injury in children who suffer blunt abdominal trauma. In children, the abdominal wall is thinner and less developed, and inner organs, especially the duodenum, take up a larger portion of the body relative to height, making them more prone to injury. Typical symptoms, such as epigastric pain, bilious emesis, and an upper abdominal mass, result from the associated small bowel obstruction. The absence of these symptoms in combination with the patient's age make this diagnosis less likely.

