### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Hypersensitivity to gliadin** - This patient presents with steatorrhea, weight loss, and evidence of iron deficiency (pallor and cheilitis). Investigations reveal global malabsorption: A positive d-xylose test confirms carbohydrate malabsorption; high fecal fat content confirms fat malabsorption; and low hemoglobin and cheilitis indicate micronutrient malabsorption. The d-xylose test remains positive after a course of antibiotics in this patient, indicating a non-infectious cause of malabsorption. Hypersensitivity to gliadin results in celiac disease that can present with global malabsorption, as in this patient, making it the most likely diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Autoimmune-mediated inflammation of the colon** - Autoimmune-mediated inflammation of the colon is the most likely cause of ulcerative colitis (UC), an IBD that can present in this age group with recurrent abdominal pain, diarrhea, anemia, and weight loss. However, patients with UC would typically have blood in stools. Moreover, because the small intestine is usually not involved in UC, there would be normal intestinal absorption of nutrients. Steatorrhea would therefore not be present and the urinary concentration of d-xylose would be normal in UC.

**B - Lactose intolerance** - Lactose intolerance is a very common condition caused by an inability to digest lactose. While it also causes abdominal pain, bloating, and diarrhea, lactose intolerance is not associated with steatorrhea, anemia, cheilitis, or weight loss. Lactose intolerance does not affect the integrity or absorptive capacity of the small intestinal mucosa, meaning the urine D-xylose levels would be normal.

**C - Exocrine pancreatic insufficiency** - Exocrine pancreatic insufficiency can manifest with abdominal cramps, steatorrhea, and weight loss, as seen in this patient, due to the deficiency of lipase. However, pancreatic insufficiency does not alter the integrity or absorptive capacity of the small intestinal mucosa, meaning that urine d-xylose levels would be normal.

**D - Tropheryma whipplei infection** - Tropheryma whipplei is the causative agent of Whipple disease, a rare multisystem infection. Gastrointestinal symptoms of Whipple disease include abdominal cramps, diarrhea, and steatorrhea, which are similar to this patient's features. As Whipple disease affects the absorptive capacity of the small intestine, the d-xylose test would also be positive. However, Whipple disease primarily affects men > 30 years of age, and most patients have a history of migratory arthralgias affecting large joints, making another more common condition more likely.

**E - Bacterial overgrowth in the small intestine** - Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) can present with diarrhea, steatorrhea, and weight loss, like in this patient. Because bacterial proliferation impairs the absorptive capacity of the small intestine, the oral d-xylose test would also be positive. However, the administration of rifaximin would treat SIBO, resulting in improved small intestinal absorptive capacity and normal d-xylose levels. Additionally, this patient has no predisposing factors for SIBO such as blind loop syndrome, intestinal strictures (e.g., postoperative, tuberculosis, Crohn disease), and conditions that decrease intestinal motility (e.g., chronic diabetes mellitus, scleroderma).

