### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Bath salts** - Bath salts are synthetic derivatives of cathinones that are used recreationally and have similar effects to amphetamines. Synthetic cathinones increase the release, and decrease the reuptake, of monoamines (norepinephrine, dopamine, serotonin), leading to sympathetic stimulation and neuropsychiatric changes (e.g., hallucinations, delusions accompanied by aggression toward others), as seen here. In rare cases, patients also have myoclonus and/or seizures. In contrast to amphetamines, bath salts have a longer duration of effect, and symptoms can last for days or even weeks. Since many synthetic cathinones cannot be detected by routine urine toxicology screening, the diagnosis is typically based on history and observed clinical features. Treatment of acute intoxication is supportive (e.g., maintaining a patent airway, fluid therapy, benzodiazepines if patients are agitated).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ecstasy** - Ecstasy (MDMA) intoxication can manifest with tachycardia, mydriasis, hyperthermia, hypertension, diaphoresis, agitation, and hallucinations, all of which are seen here. However, common effects include increased thirst, euphoria, and feelings of intimacy, which this patient does not have. In addition, effects typically last 4–6 hours whereas this patient is still symptomatic 8 hours after she was found by her neighbor. Furthermore, aggressive behavior is uncommon in MDMA intoxication.

**B - Cocaine** - Cocaine intoxication can manifest with tachycardia, agitation, mydriasis, hypertension, and hallucinations, all of which are seen here. However, cocaine has a short duration of action (several minutes to 2 hours depending on the route of administration) whereas this patient is still symptomatic 8 hours after she was found by her neighbor, making cocaine intoxication unlikely.

**C - Amitriptyline** - Intoxication with amitriptyline, a tricyclic antidepressant with anticholinergic effects, can manifest with hyperthermia, tachycardia, mydriasis, and agitation, all of which are seen here. However, anticholinergic toxicity typically manifests with dry, flushed skin whereas this patient's skin is moist and her hands are cold, suggesting sympathetic stimulation.

**D - Lysergic acid diethylamide** - Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) is a synthetic hallucinogenic drug that can cause altered mental status. Although LSD intoxication can manifest with symptoms of sympathetic activation (e.g., hyperthermia, tachycardia, hypertension, diaphoresis, mydriasis), these findings are usually milder than those seen in this patient. In addition, LSD intoxication commonly manifests with optical hallucinations and/or illusions. Furthermore, aggressive behavior is uncommon in LSD intoxication.

