### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Mechanical dilation** - First-line treatment for an obstructing Schatzki ring/esophageal ring is mechanical dilation using bougie or balloon dilators. This procedure would improve this patient's symptoms immediately. However, recurrence of strictures is possible and subsequent dilatations may be needed.

Image File: 661-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58aeccc702e7e.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Esophagectomy** - Esophagectomy is mainly performed to treat esophageal cancer. Although this patient's dysphagia to solids and findings on barium esophagogram are concerning for esophageal cancer, the findings on upper endoscopy and biopsy results are consistent with a Schatzki ring. Therefore, a less invasive treatment is preferred.

Image File: 661-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9409836a.jpg

**B - Esophageal stent** - An esophageal stent can be used for palliative treatment of an inoperable esophageal malignancy to allow passage of food and beverages. A stent may also be considered to treat refractory strictures. However, other treatment options are available and should first be tried in this patient.

Image File: 661-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_53d90f348b680.jpg

**C - Intralesional corticosteroid** - Intralesional application of corticosteroids can be used to treat Schatzki rings. However, it is not the first-line treatment and is rather used for recurrent strictures. Corticosteroids play a more important role in treating eosinophilic esophagitis, which also presents with dysphagia and circumferential lesions on endoscopy. Eosinophilic esophagitis commonly affects younger patients and there are usually numerous eosinophils seen on biopsy.

Image File: 661-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9465504a.jpg

**D - Iron supplementation** - Iron supplementation is used to treat Plummer-Vinson syndrome, which also presents with dysphagia. Plummer-Vinson syndrome is associated with esophageal webs on upper endoscopy (which appear thin and membranous; different from the ring seen at the gastroesophageal junction in this patient) and symptoms of severe iron deficiency anemia (e.g., pallor, fatigue, weakness, dyspnea on exertion).

Image File: 661-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58aece7d0bea1.jpg

**E - Omeprazole therapy** - PPIs such as omeprazole alone would not be helpful in resolving this patient's lower esophageal obstruction. However, after proper treatment of the Schatzki ring, this patient should be switched from ranitidine to a PPI to more effectively treat his GERD and prevent relapse of the ring.

**F - Nissen fundoplication** - Although this patient has a hiatal hernia, Nissen fundoplication would further narrow his lower esophagus and worsen his dysphagia. After proper treatment of the Schatzki ring, Nissen fundoplication may be considered for treating his sliding hiatal hernia.

Image File: 661-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d92e024bc.jpg

