### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Oral loperamide** - The first-line pharmacological treatment for uncomplicated CTID is oral loperamide, an antidiarrheal opioid that acts via μ-receptors to reduce stool frequency and decrease fluid and electrolyte loss. CTID is a common complication of chemotherapy (most often seen in patients treated with fluoropyrimidines or irinotecan) because neoplastic agents target rapidly dividing cells, including those lining the gastrointestinal tract, causing mucositis and diarrhea. Initial evaluation with CBC, electrolyte panel (including magnesium), C. difficile toxin assay, and blood and stool cultures should be performed to rule out other important causes of diarrhea (e.g., C. difficile colitis, neutropenic enterocolitis) and evaluate the risk for complicated CTID. Besides loperamide and oral rehydration, management of uncomplicated CTID includes temporary discontinuation or dose reduction of chemotherapeutic drugs, as well as diet modification.

Complicated CTID manifests with severe diarrhea, abdominal cramping, nausea, vomiting, bloody stools, high-grade fever, sepsis, acute kidney injury, and neutropenia. Management includes intravenous hydration, electrolyte repletion, oral loperamide plus intravenous octreotide, and continuous monitoring of hemodynamic status.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Rectal budesonide** - Rectal budesonide is used for the local treatment of distal ulcerative colitis (UC) because of its anti-inflammatory action on the colonic mucosa. UC can manifest with diarrhea, abdominal bloating, and leukocytosis, all of which are seen here. However, patients with UC typically present with bloody diarrhea. Moreover, the lack of additional symptoms (e.g., tenesmus, abdominal cramps) and the acute onset of diarrhea shortly after starting chemotherapy are more consistent with CTID.

**B - Oral rifaximin** - Rifaximin is an antibiotic used for the treatment of traveler's diarrhea, and diarrhea caused by irritable bowel syndrome or small intestinal bacterial overgrowth. It is not, however, indicated in the treatment of CTID.

**C - Oral vancomycin** - Oral vancomycin is used for the treatment of C. difficile colitis. This condition can manifest with nonbloody, watery diarrhea that causes abdominal bloating and leukocytosis, all of which are seen here. While chemotherapy is a risk factor for C. difficile colitis, no toxins were found in this patient's stool.

**D - Intravenous octreotide** - While intravenous octreotide is used for the initial treatment of complicated CTID, it is only indicated in uncomplicated CTID if first-line treatment has been unsuccessful.

