### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Elevated α-fetoprotein** - Both hepatitis infections and liver cirrhosis are risk factors for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma, which is usually asymptomatic except for features of the underlying disease. Further symptoms may occur in advanced disease stages, including weight loss, cachexia, ascites, and jaundice. Diagnostic features include detection of a single hepatic lesion on ultrasound or CT and elevated levels of serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Positive blood cultures** - In a patient with a solitary liver lesion on ultrasonography, positive blood cultures are indicative of a pyogenic liver abscess. Pyogenic liver abscesses most commonly develop secondary to biliary tract obstructions but may also be caused by bacteremia (e.g., in IV drug users). However, since this patient no longer actively consumes IV drugs, he is not at increased risk of bacteremia. While an abscess can be both the first manifestation or a complication of this patient's condition, in the absence of fever, malaise, RUQ pain, and leukocytosis, this diagnosis is less likely. Ultrasound findings would consist of a fluid-filled, hypoechoic lesion, unlike the solid, isoechoic lesion seen in this patient.

**C - Elevated carcinoembryonic antigen** - Elevated carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is a tumor marker that is primarily elevated in patients with colorectal and pancreatic cancer. Although both types of cancer can metastasize to the liver, symptomatic metastatic disease is unlikely without any prior symptoms of the underlying malignancy (e.g., melena, hematochezia, epigastric pain).

**D - Exophytic tumor on colonoscopy** - Detection of an exophytic tumor on colonoscopy is diagnostic of colorectal cancer. The liver is most commonly affected by multiple metastases that are spread via the portal vein. While the patient has a family history of colorectal cancer and would require further workup to fully exclude a malignancy, in the absence of typical symptoms (e.g., hematochezia, changes in bowel habits, iron deficiency anemia) and the presence of hepatitis C and cirrhosis, another diagnosis is more likely.

**E - Spiculated lesion on chest CT** - Detection of a spiculated lesion on chest CT is a diagnostic finding in patients with lung cancer. This patient is at increased risk for developing lung cancer because he has a history of smoking and is over 40 years old. However, since he has no symptoms of lung cancer (e.g., cough, hemoptysis, dyspnea) and there are more often multiple liver metastases rather than a single solitary metastasis, this diagnosis is less likely.

**F - Beading of bile ducts** - Beading of the bile ducts is a sign of bile duct strictures seen on PTC in patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC). Although later disease stages can cause cirrhosis and hepatic tumors (e.g., HCC, CCC) that cannot be differentiated on ultrasound, ∼ 90% of patients also have inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Considering this patient's history of hepatitis C infection and absence of symptoms of IBD, another diagnosis is more likely.

**G - Elevated antimitochondrial antibodies** - In a patient with symptoms of liver cirrhosis, elevated antimitochondrial antibodies are indicative of primary biliary cholangitis (PBC). Though PBC is not directly associated with the formation of solitary liver lesions, it could be the cause of this patient's condition. However, considering the patient's history and that PBC is much more common in women, another diagnosis is more likely.

