### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Smoking history** - Cigarette smoking significantly increases the risk for pancreatic cancer. It accounts for about 25% of all cases and it is considered the most significant environmental contributing factor. This patient's history of 50 pack years smoking is likely to have been the main risk factor for developing pancreatic cancer. Further risk factors for pancreatic cancer include chronic pancreatitis (esp. > 20 years), age > 50 years, and hereditary genetic syndromes.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Lack of physical activity** - Physical activity is an important factor in maintaining good health as it helps reduce weight, lower insulin levels, and boost the immune system. It is a known protective factor for colon, breast, and endometrial cancer, and may also reduce the risk of gastric, esophageal, liver, and kidney tumors. Although the lack of physical activity has been linked to increased risk for development of pancreatic cancer, there is another risk factor that is even more strongly associated.

**C - Long-term use of aspirin** - Long-term use of aspirin has not been linked with either an increased or decreased risk for pancreatic cancer. However, long-term use of low dose aspirin has been shown to have a protective effect on colorectal cancer. Although the exact mechanism is not yet well understood, it is believed that the inhibition of prostaglandins decreases angiogenesis.

**D - Poor dietary habits** - The relationship between poor dietary habits consisting of fat-rich food and pancreatic cancer is not well established. Studies have been unable to show consistent results that link specific diets to pancreatic cancer. However, a diet rich in fiber and vegetables is considered a protective factor for colorectal cancer and diverticular disease.

**E - History of alcohol use** - Alcohol use increases the risk of chronic pancreatitis, a well-established risk factor for pancreatic cancer. However, alcohol use alone has not been linked to pancreatic cancer. There is no evidence in this patient of having chronic pancreatitis associated with drinking 2–3 cans of beer daily.

**F - Diabetes mellitus** - Glycemic control may reduce the risk of malignancies associated with type 2 DM (e.g., pancreatic cancer, liver cancer, endometrial cancer). Although this patient has evidence of poor glycemic control, diabetes is not the strongest risk factor among the options listed.

**G - Helicobacter pylori infection** - H. pylori infection is associated with an increased risk of gastric cancer, likely due to chronic inflammation and the direct carcinogenic effect of the bacteria on the gastric mucosa. Although studies have shown that H. pylori infection may contribute to development of pancreatic cancer, the association is weak and it is not the strongest risk factors among the options listed.

