### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Zaleplon** - Zaleplon is a non-benzodiazepine hypnotic with a very short half-life (∼ 1 hour). Therefore, it is effective for the treatment of sleep-onset insomnia, as seen in this patient. Zolpidem is another non-benzodiazepine hypnotic, with a longer half-life than Zaleplon (up to 4.5 hours). It is used for patients that have difficulty with sleep onset and/or sleep maintenance. Non-benzodiazepines have marked sedative effects and are not associated with drug dependence. Because of their more favorable side effect profile, they are preferred over benzodiazepines for the treatment of sleep disorders, particularly among elderly persons (except zolpidem increases the risk for falls in elderly). However, like benzodiazepines, they are not approved for long-term use.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Temazepam** - Intermediate-acting benzodiazepines, such as temazepam, should be avoided in elderly patients, as there is an increased risk of significant adverse effects such as cognitive impairment and falls with severe consequences (e.g., hip fracture). Moreover, this patient presents with sleep-onset insomnia, so that a short-acting agent would be more appropriate. Although intermediate-acting benzodiazepines have a lower risk of the “hangover” effect compared to long-acting benzodiazepines, they have a higher risk for benzodiazepine dependence.

**B - Phenobarbital** - Barbiturates, such as phenobarbital, can be used in the treatment of insomnia. However, due to their significant adverse effects (e.g., tolerance, dependence, cardiorespiratory depression), another class of drugs is preferred.

**C - Diphenhydramine** - Diphenhydramine is a strong sedative that belongs to the first-generation H1 receptor antagonists. However, antihistamines are not recommended for use by elderly persons due to their significant side effects (e.g., drowsiness, confusion, anticholinergic side effects).

**D - Suvorexant** - Orexin antagonists, such as suvorexant, can be used in the treatment of insomnia in elderly patients. However, due to suvorexant's side effects (e.g., daytime somnolence, residual daytime sedation), a shorter-acting agent would be preferred.

**F - Flurazepam** - Long-acting benzodiazepines, such as flurazepam, should be avoided in elderly patients, as there is an increased risk of significant adverse effects such as cognitive impairment and falls with severe consequences (e.g., hip fracture). Moreover, this patient presents with sleep-onset insomnia, so that a short-acting agent would be more appropriate. Although long-acting benzodiazepines have a lower risk of addiction compared to short-acting benzodiazepines, they have a higher risk of the “hangover” effect the day after they are used.

