### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Proctocolectomy with ileoanal anastomosis** - A marked increase in polyps from the previous colonoscopy in a patient with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is an indication for proctocolectomy with ileoanal anastomosis. Other indications for proctocolectomy with ileoanal anastomosis are colorectal cancer, high-grade dysplasia, and inability to survey the colon because of polyps. This patient requires continuous follow-up after surgery because cancer can occur in the ileum or the remaining rectum.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Repeat colonoscopy in 6 months** - Patients with a diagnosis of FAP or who are at risk for developing FAP based on family history are generally screened with yearly colonoscopies. Because this patient has experienced a dramatic increase in the number of colonic polyps in the past year, conducting another colonoscopy in 6 months would be inappropriate given her risk of developing colorectal cancer.

**B - Endoscopic biopsy of polyps** - The sheer number of polyps in this patient puts her at high risk of disease progression. Although a biopsy would help differentiate between grades of dysplasia, it would not be useful in treating the disease.

**C - Sulindac therapy** - Sulindac may cause polyp regression in patients with FAP but does not decrease the risk of cancer. It is generally used as an adjunct for patients whose disease development is being monitored via colonoscopies. Given the patient's dramatic increase in the number of colonic polyps in the past year, medical therapy alone is no longer sufficient.

**E - Folinic acid (leucovorin) + 5-Fluorouracil + oxaliplatin therapy** - This chemotherapeutic regimen is one that is used as adjuvant therapy for colon cancer. The patient does not have biopsy-proven colon cancer and will have to await pathology results before considering further medical therapy.

**F - CT scan of the abdomen with contrast** - Imaging would be an option if extraintestinal disease were suspected (e.g., Gardner syndrome). The patient has vital signs within normal limits, no significant findings on exam, and laboratory values including CBC that are within reference ranges; her disease is most likely localized to the colon and rectum.

