### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Administer polyethyelene glycol** - The oral administration of osmotic laxatives such as polyethylene glycol for 3–6 days is the first-line of therapy for functional constipation, which is a common cause of abdominal pain in children who begin toilet training or those who start going to school. Treating early may prevent fecal impaction from developing or worsening. If constipation persists despite administration of polyethylene glycol, an enema should be attempted. Following stool disimpaction, polyethylene glycol may be continued for 2–4 weeks as maintenance therapy. Other measures, such as adequate fiber, oral fluids, and toilet training, should also be instituted.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Reassurance and observation** - Reassurance and observation alone is not appropriate in a child presenting with functional constipation because fecal impaction can develop that causes pain during defecation, which encourages a child to defer a bowel movement. This behavior worsens fecal impaction and results in a vicious cycle.

**C - Administer intravenous fluids** - Intravenous fluid therapy would be indicated in children with severe dehydration as a result of viral or bacterial gastroenteritis, which would cause abdominal pain. However, this child does not have evidence of dehydration (e.g., lethargy, dry mucous membranes, tenting of skin) or other clinical features to suggest gastroenteritis (e.g., fever, diarrhea, vomiting).

**D - Perform a barium enema** - A barium enema would be indicated if the child has evidence of intussusception. Patients with intussusception may present with abdominal pain, and clinical features of mechanical bowel obstruction (e.g., hyperactive bowel sounds, constipation). However, intussusception typically occurs among children younger than 2 years of age and presents with paroxysms of abdominal pain that last 15–20 minutes. The child would also be lethargic and a mass in the right lower quadrant would usually be palpable. An abdominal ultrasound would reveal a target sign at site of intussusception.

Image File: 672-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d92b1e882.jpg

**E - Start empirical antibiotic therapy** - Two common indications for empirical antibiotic therapy in a child who presents with acute abdominal pain are acute dysentery and acute appendicitis. This child presents with neither blood in stool nor diarrhea, which rules out a diagnosis of acute dysentery. The absence of right lower quadrant tenderness, nausea, vomiting, and ultrasound findings of appendicitis (e.g., dilated non-compressible appendix, periappendiceal fluid collection) make the diagnosis of acute appendicitis unlikely in this child.

**F - Perform exploratory laparotomy** - An exploratory laparotomy would be indicated in patients with evidence of peritonitis, which may cause abdominal pain. A child with peritonitis would be extremely ill, have hypoactive bowel sounds, and usually lie still (unlike this child who is restless). Other features, such as rebound tenderness, guarding, tachycardia, and/or hypotension, would also be present.

