### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Colonoscopy** - Given the high prevalence (up to 90%) of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), especially ulcerative colitis (UC), in patients with PSC, colonoscopy is recommended at the time of diagnosis, even if there are no symptoms of IBD. UC in patients with PSC is usually mild, and patients are often asymptomatic or have mild symptoms (e.g., abdominal pain and tenesmus, which are both seen here). However, compared with patients with IBD alone, patients with IBD and concomitant PSC are at increased risk of developing colorectal cancer (CRC), although the cause of this increased risk is not known. In patients with both conditions, a colonoscopy should be performed annually. Patients with PSC are also at increased risk for developing cholangiocarcinoma, gallbladder cancer, and hepatocellular carcinoma (due to cirrhosis).

Image File: 675-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_602c1df5414ce.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Liver biopsy** - If cholangiopancreatography (e.g., MRCP) shows characteristic findings of PSC, as seen here, further workup with a liver biopsy is not necessary. A liver biopsy is indicated if the clinical presentation and initial workup raise suspicion for autoimmune hepatitis or PSC-autoimmune hepatitis overlap syndrome (e.g., PSC during childhood or in young adults, positive antinuclear antibody or antismooth muscle antibody titers) or if the cholangiopancreatography is inconclusive (i.e., raises suspicion for small duct PSC or a different cause of cholestasis).

**B - Antimitochondrial antibody screening** - Antimitochondrial antibody (AMA) screening is used to support the diagnosis of primary biliary cholangitis (PBC), which also manifests with fatigue, signs of cholestasis, hepatomegaly, mildly elevated liver enzymes, and focal intrahepatic bile duct strictures on MRCP. However, PBC typically affects women, and strictures of the extrahepatic bile ducts, which are seen here, are not consistent with PBC. In PSC, further workup involves testing for perinuclear antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (pANCA) rather than AMAs, which are usually absent in PSC.

**C - Hepatobiliary scintigraphy** - While hepatobiliary scintigraphy (HIDA scan) can visualize the gallbladder and biliary tree, this patient underwent MRCP and has findings that indicate PSC, meaning that further imaging is not indicated at this time. A HIDA scan is rarely used as the first-line modality for imaging the gallbladder and pancreaticobiliary tree. HIDA scan is most commonly used when acute cholecystitis (especially acalculous cholecystitis) is suspected but the initial ultrasound is inconclusive.

**E - Laparoscopic cholecystectomy** - To prevent gallstone formation, laparoscopic cholecystectomy is recommended in all patients with choledocholithiasis, which can manifest with signs of cholestasis, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, patients with this condition usually have a history of recurrent biliary colic (e.g., right upper quadrant pain, nausea, vomiting), which is not the case here. Moreover, MRCP in choledocholithiasis would show an intraluminal filling defect within the common bile duct and dilation of the intrahepatic biliary tree rather than beading of the bile ducts, which is seen in this patient. PSC is not an indication for cholecystectomy.

