### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Exploratory laparotomy** - An exploratory laparotomy should be performed in patients with a stomach or bowel perforation. The stomach and bowel are carefully examined under direct vision to localize and repair the perforation. Afterwards, a peritoneal lavage is performed to clean the peritoneal cavity.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Peritoneal lavage** - A patient with a perforated stomach or bowel will require a therapeutic peritoneal lavage in order to treat peritonitis. However, this can only be performed intraoperatively or postoperatively (via continuous peritoneal lavage) once the perforation has been sealed.

**B - Esophagogastroduodenoscopy** - If PUD is suspected or confirmed, EGD is indicated for patients older than 50 years with new-onset dyspepsia, and for patients of any age when alarm symptoms suggestive of malignancy or structural disease are present (e.g., upper GI bleeding, iron deficiency anemia, weight loss, dysphagia or odynophagia). EGD is not indicated for stomach or bowel perforation.

**C - Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography** - ERCP is commonly used to treat patients with complicated gallstone disease (i.e., involving obstructive jaundice, cholangitis, and/or gallstone pancreatitis). The procedure does not play a role in the treatment of a stomach or bowel wall perforation.

**D - Abdominal CT with contrast** - In a patient with acute abdomen, a contrast abdominal CT is commonly used to confirm suspected acute appendicitis, acute pancreatitis, diverticulitis, acute mesenteric ischemia, or complicated inflammatory bowel disease. A contrast abdominal CT may also be used to confirm perforation of the stomach or bowel if an abdominal x-ray does not show air under the diaphragm.

**F - Abdominal ultrasound** - In a patient with acute abdomen, abdominal ultrasonography is a cheap, readily available diagnostic tool for quickly assessing organs, the biliary tract, potential bleeding, and the quantity of intraperitoneal fluid. However, the x-ray findings already indicate a perforated stomach or bowel.

