### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - "I would like to assess your symptoms causing you the most distress and schedule monthly follow-up appointments."** - Regularly scheduled office visits with the same physician are recognized as the most effective treatment for somatic symptom disorder. Psychotherapy (e.g., cognitive behavioral therapy) is an additional component of first-line treatment. This patient has already had a comprehensive medical workup, suggesting that an organic cause of her symptoms is very unlikely and that further diagnostic steps would not be appropriate.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "I would like to investigate your shortness of breath by performing coronary artery catheterization."** - A cardiac catheterization is an invasive procedure that carries risk for complications. This patient has had a prior cardiac stress test with no abnormalities, making her pretest probability for coronary artery disease low. Cardiac catheterization would not be indicated here.

**B - "Your symptoms are suggestive of a condition called somatic symptom disorder."** - Discussing a psychiatric diagnosis with the patient is important as she has a right to be fully informed of her condition. However, the diagnosis of somatic symptom disorder should be delivered in the context of a strong physician-patient relationship. This patient presents to establish care after previously seeing several physicians. It would be most prudent to build rapport prior to delivering the diagnosis.

**C - "We should start you on a pain management regiment with tramadol to address your chronic back pain."** - Tramadol is a narcotic pain medication that carries a significant risk of dependency when prescribed for the treatment of chronic pain. This patient has undergone extensive work-up revealing no underlying organic origin for her pain. Narcotic pain medication is unlikely to resolve her symptoms.

**E - "I would like to refer you to a psychiatric specialist to start behavioral psychotherapy."** - Referral to a psychiatrist is often indicated in cases of somatic symptom disorder. However, this should be recommended in the context of an established and strong physician-patient relationship. This patient presents to establish care after previously seeing several physicians. It would be most prudent to build rapport prior to discussing referral to a psychiatrist.

**F - "Your desire for pain medication is suggestive of a medication dependence disorder."** - Criticizing the patient's request for medications can be perceived as accusatory and counterproductive to the physician-patient relationship. Patients suffering from somatic symptom disorder, as this patient's presentation suggests, experience real symptoms that may prompt them to seek treatment. Empathetic listening and legitimization of the patient's concern is important, as is providing education regarding the reasons for not prescribing medications.

