### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Sitz baths and topical nifedipine** - Sitz baths and topical nifedipine are recommended as the initial therapy for most anal fissures. A sitz bath may reduce sphincter tone and promote blood flow to the anal mucosa, while nifedipine promotes mucosal healing by increasing blood flow to the anal mucosa and also reducing the sphincter tone.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Botulinum toxin injection** - Botulinum toxin injection into the internal anal sphincter is used for the treatment of anal fissures in which conservative therapy is not effective. This procedure relaxes the hypertonic anal sphincter, but it is not indicated as a first-line treatment.

**B - Tract curettage** - Curettage is a technique used for the treatment of anal fistula. An anal fistula may present with bloody stools and rectal pain, but the condition would be noticeable during examination and have a malodorous perianal discharge.

**D - Colonoscopy** - Colonoscopy is used for screening of colorectal cancer, the third most commonly diagnosed cancer in men. It presents with bloody stools, constipation, weight loss, and reduction in stool caliber. Although the patient in the vignette has bloody stools and constipation, he does not have weight loss or reduction in stool caliber. Colorectal cancer also would not explain this patient's severe pain.

The patient has a familiar history of colorectal cancer in a first-degree relative, which makes him a candidate for colorectal screening with colonoscopy every 10 years starting at the age of 40 or 10 years before the age of diagnosis of the relative- whichever age is younger.

**E - Metronidazole and ciprofloxacin** - The combination of metronidazole and ciprofloxacin is recommended for the treatment of an anorectal abscess. An anorectal abscess would present with pain on defecation but would not explain this patient's bloody stools. Moreover, an anorectal abscess would cause purulent perianal discharge, which this patient does not have.

**F - Anal sphincterotomy** - Anal sphincterotomy is a surgical procedure that aims to reduce the tone of the anal sphincter. It involves cutting the internal sphincter muscle and is recommended for cases of recurrent anal fissure, which this patient does not have.

