### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Acute pancreatitis** - A presentation of severe epigastric pain radiating to the back accompanied by nausea/vomiting and elevated pancreatic enzymes (amylase, lipase) are highly suggestive of acute pancreatitis. Other common features include abdominal distention, decreased bowel sounds, and signs of shock as seen in this patient. About one third of the cases are caused by alcohol use, as is probably the case here.

Image File: 685-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_61123f56ea0d4.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Acute mesenteric ischemia** - Acute mesenteric ischemia typically presents in older patients with cardiovascular risk factors, such as hypertension, smoking, and type 2 diabetes mellitus, as in this patient. It can also cause acute abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and hemodynamic instability. However, abdominal pain is often out of proportion to exam rather than patients exhibiting guarding and tenderness. Furthermore, this patient has no additional risk factors for thromboembolism such as atrial fibrillation, and mesenteric ischemia would present with an elevated lactate and LDH rather than elevated lipase and amylase.

Image File: 685-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5721c08a24020.jpg

**B - Boerhaave syndrome** - Chest pain and hemodynamic instability in the context of vomiting in a patient with a history of alcohol abuse should raise concern for Boerhaave syndrome. However, as Boerhaave syndrome is a transmural rupture of the esophagus, patients classically present with mediastinal crepitus on exam, and a crunching heard over the precordium as the heart beats against air-filled tissues (Hamman's sign). Furthermore, Boerhaave syndrome would not account for this patient’s elevated serum amylase and lipase levels.

Image File: 685-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5720e603489b8.jpg

**C - Aortic dissection** - Acute chest pain radiating to the back (or thorax, or abdomen) in the context of a hypertensive male smoker should raise concern for aortic dissection. Nausea, vomiting, and hemodynamic instability such as tachycardia and hypertension (or hypotension if ruptured) can be seen. However, aortic dissection would not explain this patient's largely epigastric pain and elevated amylase and lipase.

Image File: 685-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cadd9f57138d.jpg

**D - Peptic ulcer disease** - Peptic ulcer disease (PUD) can also present with epigastric pain and nausea. Smoking and alcohol are risk factors for PUD. However, the onset of symptoms would likely be less acute than in this patient and the pain does not typically radiate to the back. PUD would also not explain the elevated lipase.

Image File: 685-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6005bc7ce662c.jpg

**E - Pericarditis** - Chest pain, especially with radiation to the back or improvement when leaning forward, is a classic symptom of pericarditis. Additional features include fever, as in this patient. However, unlike this case, a pericardial friction rub or pericardial knock would likely be present on auscultation and an ECG would show diffuse ST elevation and PR depression. Pericarditis would also not explain the elevated amylase and lipase.

Image File: 685-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58b00087cca7f.jpg

**F - Myocardial infarction** - Acute onset chest pain in an older male with risk factors such as hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, smoking, and alcohol use should raise suspicion for myocardial infarction (MI). An MI may cause nausea/vomiting, hypotension, and tachycardia, and does not always present with ECG findings (i.e., NSTEMI). However, an MI would not explain this patient's elevated amylase and lipase or his abdominal distention and epigastric tenderness.

