### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Angiography** - Angiography is the recommended procedure in patients with active hematochezia and hemodynamic instability despite resuscitation efforts after an upper GI bleed has been excluded. Angiography allows for active bleeding throughout the GI tract to be localized reliably (minimum necessary bleeding rate 0.5–1 mL/min) and urgently (does not require bowel preparation). Some centers opt to conduct a CT angiography for visualization before proceeding with invasive catheter angiography that allows for directed therapeutic intervention (e.g., embolization, vasopressin injection). Angiography is also used in stable patients when other diagnostic methods are inconclusive.

Image File: 687-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60117a66a8ff0.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - Laparotomy** - Laparotomy with intraoperative enteroscopy may be used in patients with hematochezia and hemodynamic instability. However, it is a diagnostic and therapeutic modality of last resort that is used only if other interventions fail to locate and control the source of bleeding. In this patient, a different intervention would take precedence.

**C - Colonoscopy** - Colonoscopy is used in the evaluation of hematochezia in hemodynamically stable patients. It can directly localize the source of bleeding and also allows therapeutic interventions to be performed. However, colonoscopy requires time-consuming bowel preparation, which a hemodynamically unstable patient may not be able to tolerate. Lack of appropriate bowel preparation and severe bleeding hinder visualization with this procedure, resulting in a poor diagnostic yield. Moreover, detecting the bleeding source via colonoscopy is limited to the terminal ileum, colon, and rectum. Therefore, it is not the best initial step for this patient, who is hemodynamically unstable despite resuscitation efforts and continues to bleed profusely.

**D - Radionuclide scanning** - Radionuclide scanning with tagged red blood cells (red blood cell nuclear scan) provides information about the localization of gastrointestinal bleeding but plays no therapeutic role, and is therefore used as an adjunct method to other imaging modalities. It is not the best initial diagnostic test in this patient.

**E - Enteroscopy** - Enteroscopy is indicated for obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, which can only be diagnosed after a negative initial evaluation to locate the source of the bleeding. This patient did not receive an initial evaluation and, as enteroscopy can generally only detect bleeding in the small intestine, it is not a good initial choice. Push enteroscopy and upper endoscopy are performed if both the first- and second-line diagnostic studies fail to locate the source of bleeding and there is still severe active bleeding.

