### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Gambling disorder** - This patient meets diagnostic criteria for gambling disorder. He is preoccupied with gambling, has lost his job because of gambling, relies on money provided by others, becomes irritable or anxious when he has to stop gambling, and plans on recouping his losses by “winning” them back.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Major depressive disorder** - Major depressive disorder is characterized by depressed mood and/or anhedonia lasting more than 2 weeks. While this patient displays some symptoms consistent with depression (e.g., restlessness, depressed mood), he does not meet the DSM-V criteria of ≥ 5 SIG E CAPS symptoms.

**B - Nicotine withdrawal** - Nicotine withdrawal can cause tremulousness, irritability, and a depressed mood. However, symptoms usually occur within 24 hours of stopping cigarette smoking and generally improve with time (sometimes up to 4 weeks). This patient stopped smoking 1 month ago but his symptoms were present prior to cessation.

**D - Opioid withdrawal** - Opioid withdrawal is classically characterized by diarrhea, flu-like symptoms, insomnia, irritability, anxiety, and even aggression. While this patient's presentation does have some features consistent with this diagnosis, there is no history of opioid use and his constellation of symptoms suggests an alternate disorder.

**E - Acute stress disorder** - Acute stress disorder is characterized by anxiety-related symptoms occurring within one month following a traumatic event. This patient does not have history of a traumatic event and his combination of symptoms suggests an alternate diagnosis.

**F - Alcohol withdrawal** - Patients with alcohol withdrawal can present with irritability and tremulousness. Alcohol withdrawal is a serious condition and should not be overlooked, but his history of only drinking on the weekends would be inconsistent with this diagnosis.

**G - Bipolar II disorder** - Bipolar disorder should be on the differential for this patient, as he has some features of a major depressive episode (e.g., restlessness, depressed mood), evidence for significant dysfunction (losing his job), as well as irritable mood. However, he does not have a history of manic episodes and his current symptoms do not meet criteria for a hypomanic episode (e.g., ≥ 4 symptoms such as flight of ideas, pressured speech, decreased need for sleep). Therefore, he does not meet criteria for either type I or type II bipolar disorder.

**H - Adjustment disorder** - Adjustment disorder is characterized by emotional and behavioral changes within 3 months of a stressful event (and resolution within 6 months). However, this patient meets criteria for a different disorder and has no history of traumatic event.

