### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Flexible endoscopy** - Flexible endoscopy is the most appropriate initial step in management for multiple magnets lodged in the esophagus or stomach (after confirmation with an abdominal x-ray). Immediate removal of the ingested magnets is important because they can lead to serious complications (e.g., perforation, volvulus, infection, ileus), especially if the magnet is ingested with a metallic foreign body or if multiple magnets are ingested at different times. Therefore, flexible endoscopy is preferred because it allows any damage to the gastrointestinal wall to be visualized and assessed. If the magnets are further away from the stomach and the patient is asymptomatic, or if a single magnet is ingested, conservative management with serial abdominal x-rays to confirm passage through the intestines can be considered. Alternatively, enteroscopy or colonoscopy can be performed if the magnets can be reached. Surgery may be necessary if the magnets do not progress through the intestines and the patient is symptomatic.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Reassurance and observation** - Reassurance and observation can be considered if the ingested object is small and blunt (e.g., a coin or a single magnet) and if the patient is asymptomatic and the object is seen passing through the intestines in serial abdominal x-rays. Since this patient ingested multiple magnets that are lodged in the stomach, another step in management is more appropriate at this time.

**B - Serial abdominal x-rays** - Most foreign bodies, if small enough, can be managed conservatively with watchful waiting and serial x-ray images performed every 4–6 hours to confirm the passage of the object through the intestines. However, this approach is preferred if a single magnet is ingested or if the magnet has progressed further away from the stomach. This patient ingested multiple magnets that are lodged in the stomach; therefore, another step in management is more appropriate at this time.

**C - Activated charcoal** - Activated charcoal can be used to treat different types of poisoning, including acetaminophen, aspirin, and tricyclic antidepressant poisoning. In order to achieve optimal effectiveness, activated charcoal should be administered within 1–2 hours of ingestion so that it can bind to the poisonous substance and prevent its intestinal resorption. Intestinal resorption of magnets, however, does not occur. Magnet ingestion can cause pressure necrosis of the bowel, perforation, or fistula formation; therefore, another step in management is more appropriate at this time.

**E - Laxative therapy** - Laxative therapy (e.g., with polyethylene glycol) can be considered in asymptomatic patients who have ingested one or more magnets that have progressed beyond the stomach but are progressing too slowly through the intestines. This patient, however, ingested multiple magnets that are lodged in the stomach; therefore, laxative therapy would not be appropriate at this time.

