### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography** - This patient with postcholecystectomy syndrome has elevated cholestatic parameters and a dilated common bile duct. These findings can be due either to residual gallstones within the biliary tree or sphincter of Oddi dysfunction. Although there were no gallstones seen in the common bile duct on abdominal ultrasound, this does not exclude choledocholithiasis because intraductal stones and microliths may be difficult to visualize. An ERCP with sphincterotomy should be performed; ERCP is highly sensitive for most causes of biliary dysfunction, and sphincterotomy is indicated for this patient with biliary-type pain, abnormal liver function tests, and a dilated common bile duct. ERCP with sphincter of Oddi manometry is indicated prior to sphincterotomy in patients with less distinct features of SOD (i.e., biliary-type pain but normal common bile duct or cholestatic parameters).

Image File: 693-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d910cc97a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Counseling on alcohol cessation** - This patients drinks 4 cans of beer per week, which would be defined as low-risk drinking for developing alcohol use disorder. Alcohol use would not explain the elevated cholestatic parameters and bile duct dilation. While this woman should also be counseled about the risks of excessive drinking in the future, it is not the most appropriate step in management of her current condition.

**C - H. pylori stool antigen testing** - H. pylori stool antigen testing is used to detect infections with H. pylori, which can lead to disease such as gastritis and PUD. Both conditions can present with upper abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting, which are seen in this patient. However, this patient's elevated cholestatic parameters and dilated common bile duct cannot be explained by gastritis or PUD and warrant a different diagnostic approach.

**D - Proton pump inhibitor therapy** - Proton pump inhibitors can be used to treat GERD, gastritis, or PUD, all of which may present with upper abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting, which are seen in this patient. However, GERD, gastritis, or PUD would not explain this patient's elevated cholestatic parameters and dilated common bile duct, which makes these diseases unlikely.

**E - Reassurance and follow-up in 4 weeks** - Some patients may have slight abdominal pain in the first days after cholecystectomy. Patients with only slight pain and no other findings should receive reassurance and follow-up. However, this patient has incapacitating symptoms, elevated cholestatic parameters, and a dilated common bile duct. These findings warrant further investigation and treatment.

**F - CT scan of the abdomen** - CT scan of the abdomen is useful to evaluate postcholecystectomy complications such as biliary leakage or bile duct injury. Patients with a biliary leakage typically present with fever, abdominal pain, leukocytosis, abnormal liver function tests, and/or signs of bilious ascites. Once an ultrasound and/or CT scan demonstrates fluid collection within the peritoneum, a hepatobiliary iminodiacetic acid scan is typically performed to confirm the presence of bile fluid. This patient's lack of fever and dilated common bile duct without evidence of intraperitoneal free fluid are not consistent with a biliary leakage or bile duct injury. Rather, her symptoms and ultrasound indicate sphincter of Oddi dysfunction; obtaining a CT scan would not provide additional information at this time.

