### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - CT angiography of the abdomen** - High-resolution CT angiography (CTA) of the abdomen and pelvis is the diagnostic test of choice for suspected AMI in hemodynamically stable patients without signs of peritonitis (e.g., diffuse abdominal guarding, rigidity, rebound tenderness) because it is fast, noninvasive, and accurate in detecting disrupted blood flow and vascular stenosis. This test can differentiate embolic from thrombotic arterial occlusion and provides further information about the vasculature and surrounding structures, all of which are necessary for the planning of subsequent therapy. Furthermore, CTA images can be used to exclude most differentials of acute abdominal pain (e.g., pancreatitis, appendicitis, nephrolithiasis).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Upper gastrointestinal series** - Upper gastrointestinal series (UGI) can be used to diagnose structural or functional abnormalities of the esophagus (e.g., achalasia), stomach (e.g., gastric outlet obstruction), or proximal small intestine (e.g., duodenal atresia), all of which can manifest with acute abdominal pain. However, UGI is contraindicated in suspected AMI because the introduction of barium and air into the small bowel can increase intraluminal pressure and worsen ischemia. Furthermore, barium in the gastrointestinal tract interferes with subsequent imaging studies and can cause peritonitis in patients with bowel perforation.

**B - Test the stool for occult blood** - Although patients with AMI may present with blood in stools that can be detected with a fecal occult blood test, bloody stools are a late, inconsistent, and unspecific finding in AMI. A different test is more appropriate for confirming a diagnosis of AMI.

**C - Ultrasonography of the abdomen** - Ultrasound can be used to diagnose some conditions that manifest with acute abdominal pain, such as gallstone disease, appendicitis in certain groups (e.g., children), and certain structural abnormalities (e.g., intussusception). In the context of suspected AMI, color duplex ultrasound is able to detect proximal arterial occlusions and might show signs of perforation (e.g., distended intestinal loops, free fluid in the abdominal cavity). However, color duplex ultrasound is poor at detecting distal arterial occlusions, and picture quality is often limited because of overlying bowel gas, abdominal fat, and vascular calcifications. A different test is more appropriate for confirming a diagnosis of AMI.

**D - Explorative laparotomy** - Emergency exploratory laparotomy is indicated in patients with suspected AMI who present with features of bowel perforation and peritonitis (e.g., diffuse abdominal guarding, rigidity, rebound tenderness), and/or hemodynamic instability (e.g., tachycardia, hypotension). This procedure permits direct evaluation of the abdominal viscera (e.g., for the extend of ischemia, perforation, bleeding) and allows simultaneous surgical therapy (e.g., bowel resection, surgical revascularization). However, his patient is hemodynamically stable and shows no signs of peritonitis, so a different, less invasive, test is more appropriate.

**F - Catheter-based arteriography** - Catheter-based arteriography of the abdominal arteries, which is able to show disrupted arterial blood flow and arterial occlusions, was the diagnostic modality of choice for suspected AMI in the past. However, a less invasive test is now available, so catheter angiography is only recommended for diagnosis of AMI if that test is inconclusive.

