### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Open mesenteric bypass surgery** - Open mesenteric bypass surgery to restore arterial perfusion is the treatment of choice in patients with thrombotic AMI who have signs of peritonitis, bowel perforation (e.g., pneumoperitoneum on CTA), advanced bowel ischemia (e.g., thickening of the bowel wall segment on CTA), and/or hemodynamic instability (e.g., tachycardia or hypotension). Open surgery not only allows restoration of perfusion but also inspection of bowel segments for signs of severe ischemia and/or perforation, as well as removal of nonviable segments.

While surgical embolectomy can be used to treat embolic AMI, it isn't likely to provide a long-term treatment for thrombotic AMI because this condition is characterized by long-segment atherosclerotic plaques, which cannot be treated with removal of singular thrombi.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Observation and escalation of analgesic therapy** - Observation and escalation of analgesic therapy are appropriate for hemodynamically stable patients with AMI and no evidence of peritonitis, perforation, or advanced bowel ischemia, or for hemodynamically unstable patients with venous AMI or nonocclusive mesenteric ischemia. This patient with thrombotic AMI presents with signs of peritonitis, so treatment should be initiated immediately.

**C - Endovascular thrombectomy** - Endovascular thrombectomy is a type of endovascular revascularization, which is the treatment of choice in hemodynamically stable patients with embolic AMI who do not have signs of peritonitis, bowel perforation, and/or advanced bowel ischemia. This patient presents with signs of peritonitis, and she has thrombotic AMI. While thrombectomy can be used to treat embolic AMI, it isn't likely to provide a long-term treatment for thrombotic AMI because this condition is characterized by long-segment atherosclerotic plaques, which cannot be treated with removal of singular thrombi.

**D - Balloon angioplasty and stenting** - Balloon angioplasty and stenting is an example of endovascular revascularization, which can be used to restore mesenteric blood flow patients with thrombotic AMI who are hemodynamically stable and do not have signs of peritonitis, bowel perforation, and/or advanced bowel ischemia. This patient presents with signs of peritonitis, which warrants a different treatment.

**E - Intravenous fibrinolytic therapy** - Intravenous fibrinolytic therapy is a revascularization strategy that can be used in some cases of ischemia, like ischemic stroke, ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (i.e., when percutaneous coronary intervention is not available), and pulmonary embolism. It is not routinely used in the treatment of AMI.

