### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Inhalants** - This patient is most likely using inhalants (e.g., aerosols, glue, shoe polish, spray paint), a group of recreational drugs that are most commonly used among adolescents. Common manifestations of inhalant use include mood swings (due to rapid onset and short duration of action), irritability, slurred speech, anorexia, conjunctival injection, poor concentration, ataxia (manifesting as, e.g., dysdiadochokinesia), and an eczematous rash in the perioral area (i.e., the glue-sniffer's rash, which is caused by the drying effects of hydrocarbons), all of which are seen in this patient. In severe cases, inhalant use can cause cardiac arrhythmias and severe central nervous system toxicity (e.g., seizures, coma, and death due to respiratory depression).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Alcohol** - Alcohol use, which is common in adolescence, can cause slurred speech, irritability, and ataxia. However, these symptoms typically last for hours; withdrawal symptoms, which can include anxiety, irritability, and anorexia, are not expected within minutes after use. In addition, this patient does not have other typical manifestations of alcohol intoxication, such as disinhibited behavior. Moreover, alcohol use is not associated with a perioral rash.

**C - Phencyclidine** - Phencyclidine (PCP) use can cause neuropsychiatric symptoms, including bizarre behavior, irritability, and ataxia. However, these symptoms typically last for hours; withdrawal symptoms, which can include anxiety and irritability, are not expected within minutes after use. In addition, this patient does not have other typical manifestations of PCP intoxication, including diaphoresis, seizures, violent behavior, or hallucinations. Moreover, PCP use is not associated with a perioral rash.

**D - Cocaine** - Cocaine use can cause euphoria and irritability that usually last 15–60 minutes. However, seeming drunk and having slurred speech is not typical for cocaine use. Acute withdrawal symptoms include depression, anxiety, and increased appetite, rather than the irritability seen in this patient. While chronic cocaine use can result in changes in behavior, poor concentration, and decreased appetite, it does not usually cause ataxia. Intranasal cocaine use can cause chronic rhinitis and perforation of the nasal septum; it is not typically associated with a perioral rash.

**E - Marijuana** - Marijuana use can cause slurred speech, conjunctival injection, ataxia, and poor concentration. Acute intoxication often results in euphoria, and withdrawal can cause irritability. However, withdrawal symptoms typically occur several days after abrupt cessation of prolonged marijuana use (not within minutes after use). In addition, marijuana use typically results in increased, not decreased, appetite. Moreover, it is not associated with a perioral rash.

