### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Upper gastrointestinal contrast series** - An upper gastrointestinal contrast series is the most sensitive exam to visualize the duodenum in infants and the gold standard for diagnosis of intestinal malrotation with midgut volvulus. The obvious signs of malrotation are a misplaced ligament of Treitz and duodenojejunal junction on the right of the mid-line. A twisted and thus corkscrew-like appearance of the duodenum and duodenal blockage with a distended stomach would reflect midgut volvulus.

Image File: 700-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5def7aa601d1d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - CT scan of the abdomen** - Computed tomography (CT) imaging should not be performed in this patient. This patient has features that are most concerning for an anatomical obstruction in the midgut, and other diagnostic tests provide better visualization of this region. Moreover, a CT scan would expose this neonate to unnecessary radiation.

**B - Laparoscopy** - Laparoscopy would be indicated if further diagnostic workup did not establish a definitive diagnosis or was suggestive of malrotation without a complicating volvulus. In this neonate, further studies should be performed first to confirm the diagnosis.

**D - Water-soluble contrast enema** - Water-soluble contrast enema is used as a confirmatory test and therapeutic tool for intussusception, which also presents in infants with vomiting. However, as most cases of intussusception are ileocecal, bilious vomiting occurs only in progressive disease. On abdominal x-ray, dilated loops and air -fluid levels would be also expected in the small intestine rather than a gasless abdomen. Additionally, patients typically present between 3–12 months of age and usually also have acute cyclical abdominal pain (every 15–30 minutes) and possibly a palpable mass on abdominal exam, none of which are seen in this case.

**E - Emergent exploratory laparotomy** - Emergent exploratory laparotomy is indicated in cases of hemodynamic instability and/or bowel ischemia or perforation. This patient is hemodynamically stable, is afebrile, and has a soft abdomen, indicating that further diagnostic workup is safe. Should he decompensate and develop profound tachycardia, hypotension, signs of perforation (e.g., free air under the diaphragm on repeat plain film), or signs of bowel infarction (e.g. hematochezia), emergent surgery would be indicated.

**F - Abdominal ultrasound** - Abdominal ultrasound is an important imaging modality for differentiating between causes of abdominal pain in children. It is most helpful in establishing the diagnosis of pyloric stenosis, which also presents with acute onset emesis and abdominal pain. Classically, an olive-shaped mass can be felt on abdominal exam; this patient's abdominal exam is notable for mild distention but no mass is evident. Moreover, the patient described here has bilious vomiting, a finding that would not be expected with an obstruction caused by a hypertrophic pylorus, which is proximal to the ampulla of Vater and is therefore associated with nonbilious vomiting.

**G - Flexible sigmoidoscopy** - Flexible sigmoidoscopy is used to treat sigmoid volvulus in patients who have no signs or symptoms of peritonitis (e.g., rebound tenderness, hemodynamic instability). Sigmoid volvulus is most commonly seen in elderly adults and presents with abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and bloating. This young patient most likely has a more proximal intestinal pathology, meaning that sigmoidoscopy would not be appropriate.

