### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Chronic cannabis use** - This patient has cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome (CHS), a condition characterized by cyclic episodes of colicky abdominal discomfort, nausea, and vomiting in a patient with a history of chronic cannabis use. The symptoms of nausea and vomiting associated with CHS are classically relieved with hot showers, as seen in this patient. The pathophysiology of this condition remains incompletely understood. The only known effective long-term treatment for CHS is cannabis cessation. Other therapies that may have limited benefit include topical capsaicin, benzodiazepines, and antiemetics (e.g., ondansetron).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Peptic ulcer disease** - Peptic ulcer disease (PUD) can manifest with intermittent epigastric abdominal discomfort, nausea, and vomiting. However, the abdominal pain associated with PUD is not typically relieved by hot showers; it is characteristically worse shortly after eating (gastric ulcers) or relieved with food intake (duodenal ulcers). In addition, this patient does not have other typical symptoms of PUD (e.g., postprandial heaviness, bloating, early satiety).

**B - Hyperemesis gravidarum** - Hyperemesis gravidarum (HG) is a rare complication of pregnancy that most commonly manifests in the first trimester with severe nausea and vomiting. However, the symptoms of nausea and vomiting associated with HG are typically constant and persistent. In addition, this patient with no abnormalities on abdominal ultrasound is not likely to be pregnant (most pregnancies are evident on abdominal ultrasound at 6 months' gestation, which is the duration of this patient's symptoms). Moreover, relief of nausea and vomiting with hot showers is characteristic of a different disorder.

**C - Chronic mesenteric ischemia** - Chronic mesenteric ischemia can manifest with episodic epigastric and/or periumbilical abdominal discomfort, nausea, and vomiting. However, this condition typically causes postprandial abdominal pain, food aversion, and weight loss, none of which are seen in this patient. In addition, chronic mesenteric ischemic usually occurs in older patients (> 60 years) with comorbid vascular disease (e.g., ischemic heart disease, peripheral vascular disease, cerebrovascular disease) or risk factors for vascular disease (e.g., hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus, smoking). Moreover, relief of nausea and vomiting with hot showers is characteristic of a different disorder.

**D - Acute labyrinthitis** - Acute labyrinthitis can manifest with nausea and vomiting. However, this condition is also typically associated with vertigo, nystagmus, hearing loss, and a history of recent viral infection (which can cause fever, headache, rhinorrhea, cough, sore throat, and myalgia), none of which are seen in this patient. In addition, acute labyrinthitis does not cause abdominal discomfort. Moreover, relief of nausea and vomiting with hot showers is characteristic of a different disorder.

**E - Type 1 diabetes mellitus** - Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA), a complication of type I diabetes mellitus, can manifest with abdominal discomfort, nausea, and vomiting. However, this patient does not have typical manifestations of type I diabetes mellitus (e.g., polydipsia, polyuria, weight loss, hyperglycemia) or other characteristic features of DKA (e.g., altered mental status, fruity breath odor, Kussmaul respirations, high anion gap metabolic acidosis) on evaluation. Moreover, DKA is a medical emergency that is potentially fatal without appropriate treatment, which is not consistent with this patient's self-limited episodes of abdominal discomfort and vomiting. Finally, relief of nausea and vomiting with hot showers is characteristic of a different disorder.

**G - Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo** - Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) can manifest with intermittent episodes of nausea and vomiting. However, this patient does not have other characteristic features of BPPV, which include gait instability, positional vertigo, and nystagmus triggered by certain head movements. In addition, BPPV is not associated with abdominal discomfort, and its episodes generally last for ≤ 1 minute. Moreover, relief of nausea and vomiting with hot showers is characteristic of a different disorder.

**H - Acute pancreatitis** - Acute pancreatitis can manifest with epigastric abdominal discomfort, nausea, and vomiting. However, this patient's normal vital signs, physical examination, and laboratory studies, in addition to her absence of risk factors (e.g., excessive alcohol use, gallstones), are not consistent with a diagnosis of acute pancreatitis. In addition, the abdominal pain associated with acute pancreatitis is not relieved by hot showers but is instead worse after meals and when supine and improved with leaning forwards.

