### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Discontinue amiodarone** - Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic drug used for prophylaxis and treatment of ventricular arrhythmias. Its adverse effects include hepatotoxicity, thyroid dysfunction, pulmonary fibrosis, cardiac arrhythmias, photosensitivity, corneal deposits, and peripheral neuropathy. Patients on amiodarone therapy should receive a baseline ECG, chest x-ray, and thyroid, liver, and pulmonary function tests. Thyroid and liver function should be monitored every 6 months, and an ECG should be obtained yearly. Amiodarone therapy should be discontinued in patients who develop hepatotoxicity, as indicated by more than a two-fold increase in aminotransferase concentrations, as seen in this patient.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Discontinue lisinopril** - The most common adverse effects of ACE inhibitors such as lisinopril include cough, angioedema, and hyperkalemia. Hepatocellular injury secondary to lisinopril therapy is extremely rare. This patient's increased serum ALT and AST concentrations are more likely caused by a different drug; discontinuing lisinopril is not warranted at this time.

**C - Discontinue lamotrigine** - The most serious adverse effect of lamotrigine that requires drug discontinuation is a hypersensitivity reaction such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Hepatotoxicity is much less commonly seen. This patient's increased serum ALT and AST concentrations are more likely caused by a different drug; discontinuing lamotrigine is not warranted at this time.

**D - Discontinue acetaminophen** - Although acetaminophen can cause hepatocellular injury, this injury is most commonly observed in the setting of acetaminophen overdose, with a minimum toxic dose of 7.5 g/day in adults. This patient's long-term analgesic use of acetaminophen for knee osteoarthritis is not the most likely cause of his acute hepatocellular injury.

**E - Follow-up laboratory results in 6 months** - This patient has increased serum ALT and AST concentrations that warrant discontinuation of the offending agent. Obtaining follow-up laboratory results without drug discontinuation is inappropriate.

**F - Follow-up laboratory results in 3 months** - This patient has increased serum ALT and AST concentrations that warrant discontinuation of the offending agent. Obtaining follow-up laboratory results without drug discontinuation is inappropriate.

**G - Decrease alcohol consumption** - Though alcohol use can cause hepatocellular injury, this patient's moderate drinking does not represent the greatest risk factor for hepatocellular injury. In addition, transaminitis resulting from alcoholic hepatitis typically produces an AST/ALT ratio > 2.

