### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Breastfeeding only** - Infants who are breastfed have a lower incidence of pyloric stenosis compared to infants who are bottle-fed. Infants who are bottle-fed (whether breastmilk or formula) tend to consume a larger volume in less time compared to infants who are breastfed, which may lead to pylorus muscle hypertrophy via overstimulation. In addition, higher levels of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) in breast milk may help mediate pyloric relaxation, facilitating gastric emptying compared to infants who are formula-fed.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Feeding of hydrolyzed milk formula** - A hydrolyzed milk formula would not prevent the development of IHPS. It can be used, however, as an alternative source of milk for infants who are intolerant to milk protein. Although food protein intolerance can also manifest with vomiting, other typical symptoms, such as abdominal pain and diarrhea, are not seen in this infant. In addition, food protein intolerance would not explain this patient's nontender epigastric mass.

**C - Avoiding penicillin administration to the mother** - Avoiding penicillin administration to the mother does not decrease an infant's risk of developing IHPS. Administration of macrolide antibiotics during pregnancy and early postnatal exposure to macrolide antibiotics (particularly erythromycin and azithromycin) are, however, associated with an increased risk of IHPS.

**D - Treating the infant with glucocorticoids** - Glucocorticoids are not used in the prevention or treatment of IHPS but can be used to treat congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH). CAH can also cause dehydration and vomiting in infants. However, the vomit is classically bilious and CAH does not account for this patient's palpable epigastric mass.

**E - Performing cesarean delivery** - Cesarean delivery does not decrease the risk of developing IHPS. In contrast, studies have shown that infants delivered via cesarean delivery are at higher risk of pyloric stenosis.

