### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Oral bile acid dissolution therapy** - In patients with uncomplicated symptomatic cholelithiasis who are poor surgical candidates long-term (6–24 months) oral bile acid dissolution therapy with ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is indicated. In addition to a low-fat diet and UDCA therapy, patients should exercise regularly and avoid lithogenic drugs (e.g., estrogen, fibrates). Elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy is the treatment of choice in patients with uncomplicated symptomatic cholelithiasis who have no contraindications for surgery.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Emergency cholecystectomy** - Emergency cholecystectomy may be indicated in patients with cholelithiasis complicated by acute cholecystitis (i.e., patients with evidence of gallbladder gangrene/necrosis, perforation, and/or emphysematous cholecystitis). This patient presents with uncomplicated cholelithiasis, in which emergency cholecystectomy is not indicated. In most patients with uncomplicated cholelithiasis, elective rather than emergent cholecystectomy is indicated. This patient's recent myocardial infarction, however, makes her a poor surgical candidate, so a different approach is indicated.

**C - Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy** - Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) can be used in the fragmentation of solitary cholesterol gallstones in patients who are poor surgical candidates. However, patients with multiple stones, such as this one, are not good candidates for ESWL. Moreover, ESWL is associated with high rates of biliary colic and gallstone recurrence, so this technique is not the first-line therapy in most cases.

**D - Rapid weight loss** - Although weight loss is recommended to help manage this patient's chronic medical conditions (i.e., obesity, hypercholesterolemia, and diabetes mellitus), it is associated with an increased risk of gallstone formation. Rapid weight loss should therefore be avoided in patients with cholelithiasis.

**E - Fenofibrate therapy** - Fibrates may be indicated in patients with hypercholesterolemia, which this patient has. However, fibrates inhibit cholesterol 7α hydroxylase, thereby decreasing bile acid synthesis, which leads to the supersaturation of bile with cholesterol and, potentially, to the formation of cholesterol gallstones. Therapy with fibrates should therefore be avoided in patients with cholelithiasis.

