### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Liver transplantation** - Liver transplantation is the only definitive treatment option in patients with fulminant hepatic failure, a rare and devastating complication of acute hepatitis B infection. In the case of fulminant hepatic failure, the probability of spontaneous recovery must be weighed against the benefit of emergent liver transplantation. Patient age, underlying cause of liver failure, degree of encephalopathy, and evidence of liver dysfunction are the most important deciding factors. Because this patient is over 40 years, tested positive for hepatitis B surface antigen, has a high grade of encephalopathy (asterixis, marked confusion), and continues to show significant liver dysfunction (elevated PT, INR, and total bilirubin), she should be referred for liver transplantation, given the lower probability of spontaneous hepatic recovery.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - N-acetylcysteine therapy** - N-acetylcysteine (NAC) is indicated for the treatment of acetaminophen toxicity, which can result in irreversible liver injury due to the accumulation of the highly reactive metabolite N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI). NAC replenishes glutathione, which acts as a reducing agent for NAPQI, making it inert. However, this patient's acetaminophen levels are within reference range, making this diagnosis unlikely. While NAC has been shown to improve transplant-free survival in patients with non-acetaminophen-related acute liver failure, it is not routinely recommended. In addition, given the severity of this patient's presentation, NAC therapy is unlikely to result in spontaneous recovery. NAC can also be given to patients who do not qualify for liver transplantation (e.g., due to acute intravenous drug use).

**B - Ledipasvir and sofosbuvir therapy** - Ledipasvir and sofosbuvir are direct acting antivirals (DAAs) that are used in combination for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C infection, which can result in fulminant hepatic failure in rare cases. While treatment of the underlying cause is often part of the management of fulminant hepatic failure, this patient's hepatitis C antibodies are negative, making this diagnosis unlikely.

**C - Fresh frozen plasma** - Administration of fresh frozen plasma (FFP) in patients with fulminant hepatic failure is only considered in cases of severe bleeding. Because it can interfere with the assessment of liver function, which is heavily monitored and used to evaluate further management steps, it is not recommended. In addition, FFP may lead to fluid overload and has not been shown to improve mortality in this patient population.

**E - Glucocorticoid therapy** - While glucocorticoids may be considered in severe alcoholic and autoimmune hepatitis, they should be avoided in patients with acute liver failure because they further increase the already increased risk of infection and sepsis.

