### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Cholecystoenteric fistula** - A cholecystoenteric fistula is an abnormal communication between the gallbladder and intestinal tract that is often secondary to inflammation of the gallbladder wall. Fistulization provides a conduit for passage of gallstones, which may cause gallstone ileus. Pneumobilia is usually visualized on abdominal imaging.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Cecal torsion** - Torsion of the cecum and ascending colon results in cecal volvulus, which may lead to mechanical small bowel obstruction. However, this patient has a dilated transverse colon with presence of air in the biliary tree, suggesting another etiology.

Image File: 713-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_604b6146c9711.jpg

**C - Bowel infarction** - Bowel infarction from acute mesenteric ischemia (AMI) can present with sudden, crampy abdominal pain. However, despite the presence of severe pain, patients with AMI will often initially have minimal to no tenderness on palpation of the abdomen. In later stages, bowel infarction may occur leading to peritoneal signs (rigid abdomen with guarding and rebound tenderness). Although this patient has multiple risk factors for mesenteric ischemia (coronary artery disease, diabetes mellitus), the lack of peritoneal signs and the subacute presentation with intermittent pain over 2 days make this diagnosis less likely. Moreover, air in the biliary tree suggests a different disease.

Image File: 713-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5721c08a24020.jpg

**D - Viscus perforation** - A perforated viscus would have a more acute presentation, with peritoneal signs on examination (guarding, rebound tenderness) and pneumoperitoneum on x-ray. This patient has a subacute presentation and pneumobilia, which suggests another diagnosis.

Image File: 713-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94b53171.jpg

**E - Colonic diverticuli inflammation** - Although the findings of fever, abdominal pain, small bowel obstruction, and leukocytosis can be seen in inflammation of colonic diverticuli (diverticulitis), the pain is typically located in the left lower quadrant (if the sigmoid colon is affected), rather than diffuse. Also, diverticulitis does not usually result in signs of mechanical bowel obstruction, such as high-pitched bowel sounds. The presence of air in the biliary tree suggests another diagnosis.

Image File: 713-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_517be8d442157.jpg

