### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Eruptive xanthomas** - Eruptive xanthomas occur due to lipid deposition in the dermis and are associated with hypertriglyceridemia. This patient's family history of premature MI further supports hypertriglyceridemia as the underlying cause of his pancreatitis. Treatment generally focuses on dietary restrictions and initiation of fibric acid derivatives, such as fenofibrate.

Image File: 714-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a9aa382a0b11.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Salt and pepper skull** - Salt and pepper skull refers to a characteristic pattern of tiny, radiolucent areas within the calvaria, which classically occurs in the setting of hyperparathyroidism. High calcium levels can lead to premature activation of pancreatic enzymes and therefore pancreatitis. However, as this patient has no mentioned history of hypercalcemic symptoms (e.g., fatigue, polyuria, constipation, neuropsychiatric disturbances), salt and pepper skull would be unlikely.

**B - Bilateral parotid gland enlargement** - Bilateral parotid gland enlargement is the hallmark of mumps, of which acute pancreatitis is a rare complication. This patient, however, has not had any classic prodromal findings of mumps, e.g., low-grade fever or malaise. Moreover, fenofibrate would be of no use in mumps-associated pancreatitis, as this complication typically resolves with symptomatic therapy alone.

**C - Decreased serum ACTH levels** - Decreased serum ACTH levels can be found in patients with prolonged steroid use, which can lead to exogenous hypercortisolism. Although steroid use is associated with the development of pancreatitis, this patient does not exhibit additional features linked to chronic steroid intake (e.g., truncal obesity, striae, moon facies). In addition, decreased serum ACTH levels due to steroid use would be treated by slowly tapering steroids, not by prescribing fenofibrate.

**E - Separate dorsal and ventral pancreatic ducts** - Separate dorsal and ventral pancreatic ducts are characteristic of pancreas divisum, a mostly asymptomatic congenital malformation, in which the dorsal and ventral pancreatic buds fail to fuse. Pancreas divisum can occasionally cause pancreatitis but the fact that this patient was treated with fenofibrate suggests a different cause for the patient's symptoms.

**F - Elevated serum IgG4 levels** - Elevated serum IgG4 levels occur in the setting of autoimmune pancreatitis, which is associated with other autoimmune disorders such as retroperitoneal fibrosis, Riedel thyroiditis, and non-infectious aortitis. This patient does not have a personal or family history of any of these conditions. Also, autoimmune pancreatitis would be treated with steroids, not fenofibrate.

