### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Carcinoid tumor** - This patient most likely has a carcinoid tumor, as indicated by typical features of carcinoid syndrome, including abdominal tenderness and cramps, watery diarrhea, cutaneous flushing (facial redness), telangiectasia (tiny blood vessels), tachycardia (sudden palpitations), and wheezing. Carcinoid tumors usually occur in the GI tract and are often asymptomatic due to hepatic metabolism of neuroendocrine substances (particularly serotonin) that the tumors produce. In the case of extraintestinal carcinoid tumors and tumors that have metastasized to the liver (indicated by elevation of transaminases in this patient), the increased serotonin that bypasses hepatic first-pass metabolism and enters systemic circulation causes the symptoms.

Image File: 715-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6086bff9b2fbe.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - VIPoma** - Chronic watery diarrhea, as in this patient, is the main symptom of VIPomas (tumors that secrete vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, VIP) besides dehydration, hypokalemia, and achlorhydria. Although cutaneous flushing can occasionally occur in individuals with a VIPoma, this diagnosis would not explain this patient's telangiectasia and wheezing.

**B - Chronic appendicitis** - Chronic appendicitis typically presents with RLQ pain persisting for more than three weeks. The diagnosis is usually made by postoperative relief of symptoms and histopathological confirmation of appendicitis. Chronic appendicitis can present with abdominal tenderness, along with normal markers of inflammation (CRP, leukocyte count), as seen here. However, it is not associated with cutaneous flushing, telangiectasia, or pulmonary symptoms, making another diagnosis more likely.

**C - Ascaris lumbricoides infection** - Ascaris lumbricoides infection can cause pulmonary symptoms, such as wheezing and shortness of breath (larvae migrate to the lungs), as well as abdominal symptoms, including abdominal discomfort, diarrhea, and features of appendicitis (RLQ complaints due to obstruction of the appendix by adult worms), as seen in this patient. Furthermore, this patient is at increased risk for ascariasis, as she spent time in Cambodia, which is endemic for Ascaris lumbricoides. However, this type of infection would typically cause eosinophilia and is normally not associated with cutaneous flushing and telangiectasia.

**D - Pheochromocytoma** - In patients with pheochromocytoma, the catecholamines released by the tumor can lead to palpitations and flushing, as seen in this patient. The suprarenal mass is sometimes palpable and may present with localized abdominal tenderness, which are also seen here. However, pheochromocytomas typically cause episodic blood pressure crises, while this patient has normal orthostatic vital signs. Additionally, the liver function tests would be unaffected.

**E - Inflammatory bowel disease** - This patient has some typical features of ulcerative colitis, a type of IBD that presents with chronic abdominal pain, diarrhea, and weight loss. Ulcerative colitis is most common in middle-aged women, but it typically causes bloody diarrhea with mucus, elevated markers of inflammation (CRP, white blood cell count), and fever, none of which are present in this patient. Moreover, IBD would not explain this patient's cutaneous flushing, telangiectasia, and wheezing.

**G - Bronchogenic carcinoma** - Bronchogenic carcinoma (especially SCLC) is associated with various paraneoplastic syndromes. Most of the clinical findings in this patient could be explained by paraneoplastic syndromes due to a release of neuroendocrine substances. This patient has some features of bronchogenic carcinoma, including pulmonary symptoms (wheezing, shortness of breath), and weight loss as well as a risk factor in her history of tobacco use. Meanwhile, elevated transaminases, as seen here, could be explained by metastatic liver disease secondary to bronchogenic carcinoma. However, the patient's age and her localized abdominal pain with tenderness in the RLQ make another diagnosis more likely.

