### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Hepatitis C virus infection** - The United States Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening for hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection in all adults 18–79 years of age. Most individuals only need to be screened for this condition once, but more frequent screening is recommended for individuals with risk factors for HCV infection, such as a history of injection drug use, solid-organ transplantation, long-term hemodialysis, or HIV infection. Screening is performed by testing the serum for anti-HCV antibodies; if screening is positive, the diagnosis can be confirmed with polymerase chain reaction testing for HCV RNA. With direct-acting antiviral treatment, the rate of complete cure with sustained virological response is over > 90%.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Asymptomatic bacteriuria** - Asymptomatic bacteriuria screening with urine culture is recommended for all pregnant persons during the first trimester. Screening is not otherwise recommended for healthy, nonpregnant individuals.

**B - Colorectal cancer** - Colorectal cancer (CRC) screening (e.g., with complete colonoscopy or a fecal occult blood test) is recommended for adults ≥ 45 years of age. Individuals with a history of CRC or adenomatous polyps, a first-degree relative with CRC, or a hereditary syndrome associated with increased risk of CRC (e.g., familial adenomatous polyposis) are at increased risk and should receive more frequent screening. This 37-year-old patient has no identified risk factors for CRC and, therefore, does not require screening for this condition at this time.

**C - Abdominal aortic aneurysm** - Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) screening with abdominal ultrasonography is recommended as a one-time screening in men 65–75 years of age who have a history of smoking. Although women who have a history of smoking or a family history of AAA are at increased risk for this condition, screening is not generally recommended.

**E - Atrial fibrillation** - Atrial fibrillation screening (e.g., with ECG) is not recommended by the United States Preventive Services Task Force because of a lack of evidence assessing the benefits and potential harm related to screening. The American Heart Association and the American Stroke Association recommend screening in adults > 65 years of age. This 37-year-old patient does not require screening for atrial fibrillation at this time.

**F - Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease** - Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease screening is not recommended by the United States Preventive Services Task Force, as early detection does not change the course of the disease or improve patient outcomes.

