### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Supportive therapy** - Supportive therapy is all that is required for a patient with acute hepatitis B infection. Testing indicating a negative HBsAg with a positive IgM anti-HBc indicates that the infection is resolving. Anti-HBs titers may not increase for up to 1–2 weeks following the disappearance of HbsAg from serum (window period), which is why measuring anti-HBc titers in a patients with suspected acute hepatitis B infection is important.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pegylated interferon-alpha** - Pegylated interferon alpha is used to treat immune-active chronic hepatitis B (CHB) and acute hepatitis C infection. A patient with immune-active CHB would have elevated serum transaminase levels and a negative anti-HBs. However in CHB, anti-HBc IgM would be absent, HbsAg would be present, and the serum transaminase levels will only be mildly or moderately increased (< 500 U/L). A patient with acute hepatitis C infection will have massively increased serum transaminase levels and increased titers of antibodies against HCV, as seen here, but HCV RNA would also be detectable. The absence of HCV RNA most likely indicates a past hepatitis C infection that has resolved.

**C - Tenofovir** - Tenofovir is used to treat immune-active chronic hepatitis B (CHB). A patient with immune-active CHB would have elevated serum transaminase levels and negative anti-HBs. However, in CHB, anti-HBc IgM would be absent, HbsAg would be present, and the serum transaminase levels would only be mildly or moderately increased (< 500 U/L).

**D - Emergency liver transplantation** - In a patient with acute viral hepatitis, emergency liver transplantation is indicated if fulminant liver failure occurs. However, fulminant hepatic failure following hepatitis B infection is seen in only 0.5% of cases, and it would manifest with features of hepatic encephalopathy (e.g., altered mental status, asterixis), increased PT/INR, and an AST:ALT ratio > 1. None of these features are present in this patient.

**E - Ribavirin and interferon** - A combination of ribavirin and interferon can be used to treat chronic hepatitis C caused by genotypes 2 and 3. A patient with a chronic hepatitis C infection will have increased levels of antibodies against HCV and possibly elevated serum transaminase levels. However, the serum transaminase levels will only be mildly to moderately increased (< 500 U/L) and HCV RNA would be detectable. The absence of HCV RNA most likely indicates a past hepatitis C infection that has resolved.

**F - Sofosbuvir and velpatasvir** - A 12-week course of sofosbuvir and velpatasvir is used to treat chronic hepatitis C infection caused by any of the 6 genotypes of HCV. A patient with chronic hepatitis C infection will have increased levels of antibodies against HCV and may have elevated serum transaminase levels. However, the serum transaminase levels would only be mildly or moderately increased (< 500 U/L), and HCV RNA would be detectable. The absence of HCV RNA most likely indicates a past hepatitis C infection that has resolved.

**G - Vaccination against Hepatitis B** - A negative HBsAg with a positive IgM anti-HBc indicates that the acute hepatitis B infection is resolving. Since hepatitis B infection is not known to recur after complete resolution of a previous hepatitis B infection, immunization against hepatitis B would not be necessary.

