### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Haloperidol** - Haloperidol, a typical antipsychotic drug, is the preferred initial treatment for an agitated and combative patient with acute mania. Its quick onset will allow for rapid sedation. A mood stabilizer should eventually be initiated and titrated for long-term maintenance therapy, but this will take a few days to take effect and she is in need of rapid stabilization at this time.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Clozapine** - Clozapine, an antipsychotic, is used for treatment-resistant schizophrenia. Because of its potential adverse effect of agranulocytosis, it is reserved as maintenance therapy in patients with refractory schizophrenia and requires close monitoring. It is not used for treatment of bipolar disorder or acute mania, as this patient has.

**B - Venlafaxine** - Venlafaxine, an SNRI, is commonly used in the treatment of major depressive disorder, anxiety, and panic disorder. It can actually worsen or trigger manic episodes, and should not be used in patients with history of mania.

**D - Lithium** - Lithium, a mood stabilizer, is still commonly used for the treatment of bipolar affective disorder. It is effective in preventing both manic episodes and depression in bipolar patients when employed for long-term maintenance therapy. However, its slower onset makes it less useful as an initial therapy in an agitated patient with an acute manic episode.

**E - Valproate** - Valproate, an anticonvulsant, is commonly used to treat bipolar disorder and tonic-clonic seizures. Its mood-stabilizing effects make it a first-line choice for long-term maintenance treatment following an acute manic episode. However, its slow onset makes it less useful as initial treatment in an agitated patient with acute mania.

**F - Sertraline** - Sertraline, an SSRI, would be an appropriate initial treatment for major depressive disorder or anxiety, but is actually contraindicated for acute mania. In an acutely manic patient, any current antidepressants should be immediately discontinued as they may contribute to the manic episode.

