### ** Correct Answer: **

**K - Metronidazole** - Metronidazole is a nitroimidazole antibiotic that is used to treat infections with anaerobic bacteria and certain protozoal infections. It is the drug of choice for the treatment of both symptomatic intestinal amebiasis (amebic dysentery) and extraintestinal amebiasis (e.g., amebic liver abscess). Tinidazole is an effective alternative to metronidazole. Following treatment with metronidazole or tinidazole, all patients with amebiasis should also receive an intraluminal amebicide such as paromomycin or iodoquinol in order to eliminate intestinal carriage of E. histolytica.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole** - TMP-SMX is not the treatment of choice for intestinal amebiasis. Instead, it is used in the treatment of diarrhea due to cyclosporiasis. Diarrhea in patients with cyclosporiasis is typically watery and nonbloody, and stool microscopy reveals acid-fast oocysts instead of hematogenous trophozoites.

**B - Doxycycline** - Doxycycline is the treatment of choice for diarrhea due to cholera. However, patients with cholera have frequent, voluminous “rice water” stools, are often severely dehydrated, and are usually febrile. The clinical presentation and the presence of hematophagous trophozoites in stool indicate that this patient does not have cholera.

**C - Reassurance only** - Active medical management is required for all patients with amebiasis in nonendemic countries like the US. In endemic regions, reassurance without medical therapy may be indicated for individuals with asymptomatic intestinal amebiasis (carriers).

**D - Praziquantel** - Praziquantel is used to treat most trematode infections (e.g., schistosomiasis, clonorchiasis) and certain cestode infections (e.g., taeniasis). Intestinal taeniasis, clonorchiasis, and certain forms of schistosomiasis (S. japonicum, S. mansoni) are diagnosed by the presence of eggs in feces. However, the finding of hematophagous trophozoites in stool indicates that the patient has amebiasis, a protozoal disease for which praziquantel is ineffective.

**E - Albendazole** - Albendazole is an antihelminthic drug that is used to treat nematode infections and certain cestode infections (e.g., cysticercosis, echinococcosis). Although patients with intestinal helminthic infections can present with abdominal pain and/or blood in stools, the absence of eggs and/or larvae in stools indicates that the patient does not have an intestinal helminthic infection. Albendazole is not effective against protozoa such as E. histolytica.

**F - Serological tests** - Serological tests are useful in the diagnosis of certain infections. In the case of amebiasis, seroconversion occurs in up to 90% of patients with intestinal amebiasis and up to 99% of patients with an amebic liver abscess. However, serology cannot differentiate between a past and newly acquired infection. This test is not useful in this patient because the diagnosis of intestinal amebiasis has already been confirmed by stool analysis. Serology may be used in the diagnosis of extraintestinal amebiasis (e.g., amebic liver disease), especially when stool microscopy is negative. However, the patient does not have symptoms suggestive of amebic liver disease such as right upper quadrant pain.

**G - Abdominal ultrasound of the right upper quadrant** - An amebic liver abscess occurs in about 5% of patients with intestinal amebiasis. In such cases, an abdominal ultrasound typically reveals a hypoechoic cystic lesion. However, patients with amebic liver disease present with right upper quadrant pain rather than lower quadrant pain. Additionally, usually an abscess takes months to years after the initial intestinal infection to develop. Considering this patient's presentation and positive stool analysis, further evaluation for amebiasis is not indicated at this time.

**H - Stop iron supplements** - Iron supplementation can result in dark stools, which may be mistaken for melena. Melena (black, tarry stools) occurs as a result of upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Since this patient has stools that are blood-tinged rather than tar-like, the site of blood loss is most likely the lower GI tract. Although this patient should be cautious using iron supplementation, stopping supplements will neither eliminate the blood-tinged stools nor treat amebiasis.

**I - Paromomycin** - Oral paromomycin is used as a luminal antibiotic in conjunction with an extraluminal amebicide to eradicate intestinal cysts and eliminate the carrier state. In the US, paromomycin monotherapy is only indicated for patients with asymptomatic intestinal amebiasis. However, this patient presents with symptomatic intestinal amebiasis.

**J - Erythromycin** - Erythromycin is a macrolide antibiotic that may be considered for the treatment of fluoroquinolone-resistant Campylobacter jejuni. Infections with Campylobacter cause inflammatory diarrhea with blood-tinged stools and fever. However, the finding of hematophagous trophozoites in the stool indicates amebiasis, for which erythromycin is not the treatment of choice.

