### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Pancreatic pseudocyst** - A pancreatic pseudocyst, which is a complication of acute or chronic pancreatitis, is caused by leakage of pancreatic exocrine secretions from damaged ducts. This patient's history of recurrent epigastric pain, vomiting, and chronic alcohol consumption makes a diagnosis of pancreatitis highly likely. Patients with chronic pancreatitis and heavy alcohol use are often cachectic due to malnutrition. Pancreatic pseudocysts, when large enough, can manifest with a palpable epigastric mass and bilious vomiting (due to extrinsic compression of the distal duodenum) or non-bilious vomiting (due to gastric outlet obstruction). The diagnosis can be confirmed by imaging; a well-defined fluid collection would be seen in the vicinity of the pancreas.

Image File: 723-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fc5068127b7c.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Chronic cholecystitis** - Chronic cholecystitis is the consequence of recurrent acute cholecystitis. Recurrent episodes of acute cholecystitis, which manifests with upper abdominal pain and bilious or non-bilious vomiting, could explain this patient's medical history. However, in chronic cholecystitis, the gallbladder is fibrosed and shrunken and would not explain this patient's abdominal mass.

**B - Retroperitoneal fibrosis** - Retroperitoneal fibrosis is a rare condition that can manifest with recurrent abdominal pain (due to hydronephrosis or mesenteric ischemia) and vomiting (due to hydronephrosis and uremia). However, an abdominal mass in retroperitoneal fibrosis is typically due to hydronephrosis and so would be palpable in the flanks, not in the epigastrium. In addition, other typical manifestations of retroperitoneal fibrosis, such as lower limb edema, varicocele, and claudication are absent in this patient.

**C - Hypertrophic pyloric stenosis** - Hypertrophic pyloric stenosis is a cause of gastric outlet obstruction (GOO) and manifests with vomiting and a palpable epigastric mass. However, it is a condition of infancy and does not manifest for the first time in adulthood. Moreover, vomitus is characteristically non-bilious, because the level of GOO by the pyloric hypertrophy is above the second part of the duodenum, into which the biliary duct drains.

**E - Gastric adenocarcinoma** - A gastric adenocarcinoma is a likely differential diagnosis in an individual who presents with abdominal pain, vomiting, an epigastric mass, cachexia, and certain risk factors (e.g., smoking, alcohol use). A history of similar symptoms in the past could have indicated a peptic ulcer that subsequently underwent malignant transformation. However, vomiting in gastric adenocarcinoma is a late manifestation and it is typically non-bilious because it is caused by gastric outlet obstruction.

