### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Recurrent urinary tract infections** - If left untreated, colovesical fistula (CVF) predisposes the patient to recurrent urinary tract infections. Diverticulitis is the most common cause of CVF (65–80% of cases); localized inflammation of the peridiverticular tissue can result in the formation of a phlegmon or a diverticular abscess that can rupture into adjacent organs, creating a fistula. An abdominal CT scan with oral contrast is typically performed to confirm the diagnosis. In most patients with CVF, surgical repair is indicated.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Inflammation of the uvea** - Uveitis is a potential complication of Crohn disease (CD), which can result in a CVF. However, if the patient has CD, the previous colonoscopy would have shown evidence of this condition (e.g., ulcers, fissures, cobblestoning of the mucosa). This patient most likely developed the CVF as a result of diverticular disease, which is not associated with uveal inflammation.

**C - Megaloblastic anemia** - Megaloblastic anemia due to impaired resorption of vitamin B12 is a potential complication of Crohn disease (CD), which can also result in a CVF. However, if the patient had CD, the previous colonoscopy would have shown evidence of this condition (e.g., ulcers, fissures, cobblestoning of the mucosa). Moreover, patients with CD typically present with a palpable mass in right lower quadrant, whereas this patient has a mass in the left lower quadrant. This patient most likely developed the CVF as a result of diverticulitis, which may be associated with iron deficiency anemia due to chronic bleeding, but not with megaloblastic anemia.

**D - Metastatic liver disease** - Metastatic liver disease is a complication of colon cancer, which can, on rare occasions, result in a CVF or an acute abdomen (due to colon perforation). This patient's history of chronic constipation and a palpable mass in the LLQ might also raise suspicion for colon cancer. However, this patient's colonoscopy 1 year ago makes colon cancer unlikely; colon cancers typically develop in premalignant lesions (e.g.. adenomatous polyps) and only rarely arise de novo.

**E - Chronic inflammation of the bile ducts** - Primary sclerosing cholangitis, a form of chronic bile duct inflammation, is a potential complication of ulcerative colitis (UC) and, to a lesser extent, Crohn disease (CD). UC, however, is only associated with mucosal and submucosal inflammation and therefore does not typically result in fistula formation. Although CD is associated with transmural bowel inflammation and can result in a colovesical fistula, the previous colonoscopy would have shown evidence of this condition (e.g., ulcers, fissures, cobblestoning of the mucosa). This patient most likely developed the colovesical fistula as a result of diverticular disease, which is not associated with biliary inflammation.

