### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - CT scan of the abdomen with contrast** - A CT scan of the abdomen with contrast is indicated to confirm or rule out acute appendicitis in nonpregnant adults when clinical findings are inconclusive and a scoring system (e.g., the Alvarado score) indicates a moderate likelihood of appendicitis. Expected findings in acute appendicitis include a distended and edematous appendix with periappendiceal fat stranding. A CT scan can also identify complications of appendicitis (e.g., perforation). The standard treatment for appendicitis consists of laparoscopic appendectomy, antibiotics, and supportive therapy (e.g., fluid resuscitation, pain management, bowel rest).

Image File: 725-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60891e833d04f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - X-ray of the abdomen** - An x-ray of the abdomen can help to identify signs of bowel perforation (e.g., free intraperitoneal air) or ileus (e.g., dilated bowel loops). Both of these conditions can cause fever, abdominal pain, nausea, anorexia, decreased bowel sounds, and leukocytosis. However, an x-ray of the abdomen has low diagnostic sensitivity for other conditions with similar presenting symptoms (e.g., acute appendicitis). This patient with an Alvarado score of 6, which indicates a moderate likelihood of appendicitis, requires a different next step in management.

**C - Pain relief and observation only** - Pain relief and observation may be appropriate steps in management for patients with unspecific findings and a low Alvarado score (≤ 4). The score should then be reassessed every 6–8 hours with consideration for other diagnoses. This patient with an Alvarado score of 6, which indicates a moderate likelihood of appendicitis, requires a different next step in management.

**D - Abdominal ultrasonography** - Abdominal ultrasonography is the preferred imaging modality for the diagnostic evaluation of appendicitis in children and pregnant women. Typical findings include a noncompressible and distended appendix (> 6 mm), fluid around the appendix, and a target sign. Abdominal ultrasonography is usually readily available and cost-effective; however, its reliability is highly operator-dependent, and the appendix may not be visualized in some instances (e.g., patients with obesity, retrocecal appendix, bowel gas obscuring the appendix). A different next step in management is preferred for this patient, a nonpregnant adult with an Alvarado score of 6.

Image File: 725-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_548f1723e9eb6.jpg

**E - Surgical exploration** - Surgical exploration, usually in the form of diagnostic laparoscopy, should be considered when appendicitis is suspected but imaging studies are inconclusive. If appendicitis is confirmed during the laparoscopy, an appendectomy should be performed during the same procedure. In patients with a moderate likelihood of appendicitis (Alvarado score 5–6), as seen here, a different next step in management is indicated.

