### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Acalculous cholecystitis** - Acalculous cholecystitis (AC) should be suspected in critically ill and postoperative patients who develop unexplained jaundice, sepsis, fever, and leukocytosis, as seen in this patient. Conditions that result in biliary stasis and/or hypoperfusion of the gallbladder such as trauma, surgery, total parenteral nutrition, multiple transfusions, which are also seen here, are risk factors for acalculous cholecystitis. The presence of RUQ tenderness and laboratory evidence of biliary stasis (i.e., elevated bilirubin, and ALP) further support the clinical diagnosis of AC.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ischemic hepatitis** - Ischemic hepatitis is typically caused by sudden hypotension and/or thromboses of the hepatic vasculature, both of which are potential intraoperative or postoperative complications of a major surgical procedure as the sigmoidectomy this patient has undergone. Ischemic hepatitis may manifest with RUQ pain, fever, altered mental status, and jaundice, which are also seen here. However, the characteristic feature is a very high elevation in serum aminotransaminases of >1000 international unit/L (50 times the upper limit of normal), which this patient does not have.

**C - Small bowel obstruction** - Small bowel obstruction (SBO), either due to prolonged postoperative paralytic ileus or due to early adhesion formation, is an early complication of bowel surgery. Prolonged bowel obstruction resulting in bowel ischemia may cause fever, leukocytosis, and hypotension, which this patient has. However, typical features of SBO such as colicky abdominal pain, vomiting, and abdominal distension would also be expected. Moreover, this patient's localized RUQ tenderness and abnormal liver enzyme parameters make another diagnosis more likely.

**D - Anastomotic insufficiency** - Anastomotic insufficiency is an important differential diagnosis of abdominal pain in any patient who has recently undergone bowel surgery. Anastomotic insufficiency can manifest with fever, tachycardia, hypotension, hypoactive bowel sounds, and leukocytosis, as seen in this patient. However, generalized abdominal guarding and rigidity would be expected on examination with or without purulent or fecal discharge from the incision site. This patient's focal RUQ tenderness and abnormal liver enzymes suggest a different cause for his abdominal pain.

**E - Cholecystolithiasis** - Symptomatic cholecystolithiasis typically manifests with postprandial RUQ pain associated with nausea and vomiting (biliary colic). Although liver enzyme parameters may be slightly abnormal in some patients, uncomplicated cholecystolithiasis would not cause the fever, leukocytosis, hypotension, or altered mental status seen in this patient.

**F - Acute pancreatitis** - Acute pancreatitis is an important differential diagnosis of upper abdominal pain. Pancreatitis can cause fever, leukocytosis, hypotension, hypoactive bowel sounds, altered liver function parameters. Gallstone pancreatitis typically causes elevated bilirubin and ALP levels. Although this patient has all of these features, his serum amylase level is normal, making acute pancreatitis unlikely.

**G - Hemolytic transfusion reaction** - A delayed hemolytic transfusion reaction (DHTR) is seen in individuals with a previous history of transfusion or organ transplantation during which sensitization to specific RBC antigens would have occurred. Although DHTR manifests many days after the second transfusion with fever and jaundice, unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia would be expected. This patient has conjugated hyperbilirubinemia, elevated transaminases, and localized RUQ pain, all of which cannot be explained by DHTR. In addition, from the given history, these are the first transfusions this patient has received.

