### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Erosive gastropathy** - This patient's history of epigastric pain and hematemesis after pneumococcal sepsis is suggestive of acute erosive gastropathy. Erosions are more superficial than ulcers, which involve damage to the gastric mucosa extending beyond the muscularis mucosa layer into the submucosa. Acute erosive gastropathy is characterized by ischemia of the mucosa due to hypovolemia (e.g., sepsis) and exposure to injurious substances (e.g., smoking, cocaine use). In acute erosive gastropathy, hemorrhage and loss of the superficial epithelium occur, further compromising the normal protective barrier of the stomach and allowing acid to penetrate through the mucosa, which directly damages the vasculature. This damage exacerbates the mucosal ischemia, causing the release of inflammatory mediators and leading to the erosions seen here.

Image File: 731-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_602e9c887f70e.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Type B gastritis** - Type B gastritis (EMAG) is a subtype of atrophic gastritis involving the gastric antrum and associated with H. pylori infection. It may manifest with epigastric pain and hematemesis. However, endoscopy and biopsy would not show multiple erosions limited by the muscularis mucosa, as seen here, but rather chronic mucosal inflammation with atrophy, gland loss, and metaplastic changes.

**B - Dieulafoy lesion** - A Dieulafoy lesion is an erosion of the proximal stomach related to an aberrant submucosal artery. Dieulafoy lesion can manifest with hematemesis and epigastric pain, and biopsy findings would show an intact submucosa, all of which is seen here. However, a Dieulafoy lesion is typically singular and located along the lesser curvature, near the esophagogastric junction (not along the greater curvature). Endoscopy would show a dilated submucosal vessel.

**C - Cushing ulcer** - A Cushing ulcer may result from stress gastritis and manifests with epigastric pain and hematemesis. Cushing ulcers, however, occur in patients with brain injuries, whereas this patient presents with pneumococcal sepsis. Moreover, Cushing ulcers are more likely to be solitary and have a tendency to perforate, which would manifest with severe pain and peritoneal signs. More importantly, gastric ulcers extend beyond the muscularis mucosa layer, which is inconsistent with this patient's biopsy findings.

**D - Penetrating ulcer** - A penetrating ulcer is a stress ulcer that extends through all layers of gastric mucosa into serosa or adventitia and, therefore, penetrates the stomach. It may cause hematemesis and epigastric pain, as seen here, but peritoneal signs would also be expected as a result of gastric acid leaking into the peritoneal cavity. Thus, patients are likely to present with intense, persistent pain and an acute abdomen.

**E - Curling ulcer** - A Curling ulcer is a stress ulcer that occurs in patients with recent severe burn injuries. It may manifest with hematemesis and epigastric pain, as seen here. However, Curling ulcers have a tendency to perforate, which would manifest with severe pain and peritonitis due to perforation. More importantly, biopsy findings for Curling ulcers show damage extending through the muscularis mucosa, which is inconsistent with this patient's biopsy findings.

