### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - PCR for viral RNA** - PCR for hepatitis C virus RNA is the confirmatory test for a chronic hepatitis C infection. The hepatitis C antibody test is a screening test and is positive in cases of active, chronic, or previous infection. This patient last used IV illicit drugs 5 years ago and has been symptomatic for 3 months with clinical features of cirrhosis and portal hypertension, which suggests a chronic hepatitis C infection. The cutaneous erosions and blistering on the dorsum of this patient's hands are likely due to porphyria cutanea tarda, a common extrahepatic manifestation of chronic hepatitis C. Chronic HCV infection is treated with a combination of two direct-acting antivirals (e.g., ledipasvir and sofosbuvir).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Western blot for HIV** - Western blot is a technique used to confirm HIV infection in patients who have a positive initial screening test. Testing for HIV remains an integral part of the workup for patients with a history of intravenous drug use. However, a prior initial screening test (e.g., combination antigen/antibody testing or ELISA) was not performed in this patient. In addition, the HIV1/HIV2 antibody differentiation assay is now preferred over western blot for confirmation of HIV infection. Furthermore, this patient's history suggests viral hepatitis; testing for HIV would, therefore, not be the next step in diagnosis.

**C - Serology for anti-HBc IgM** - Anti-HBc IgM are antibodies against the core hepatitis B antigen. If present, they indicate an acute infection beginning in the past 6 months. However, even though the patient here has signs of active hepatic disease, the absence of the hepatitis B surface antigen and the presence of the surface antibody indicate immunity and rule out an active infection.

**D - Serology for anti-HAV IgM** - Anti-HAV IgM is the screening test for active hepatitis A infection. While hepatitis A does manifest with jaundice, it is rarely chronic and not typically associated with splenomegaly. Although it is important to rule out other coinfections, the next step would be confirmation of the positive viral serology results in this patient.

**E - PCR for viral DNA** - PCR for hepatitis B virus DNA would be conducted to confirm an active infection. However, the presence of the hepatitis B surface antibody and hepatitis B core antibody without the surface antigen indicates immunity acquired through a natural infection. Therefore, there is no need to confirm a hepatitis B infection or check its viral load.

**F - Liver biopsy** - While a liver biopsy is the most reliable tool for diagnosing diffuse hepatic disease, it carries the risk of an invasive procedure. This patient has clinical features (e.g., hepatomegaly and jaundice) that may occur with cirrhosis and acute viral hepatitis. However, liver biopsy is not commonly used for diagnosing cirrhosis of viral etiology. It is instead used for staging and evaluating the prognosis of the disease, as well as for evaluating treatment options.

