### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - A villous adenomatous polyp** - The strongest predisposing factor for malignant transformation is the histological subtype of the lesion, followed by its size, location, and gross appearance. Adenomatous polyps (i.e., tubular adenoma, tubulovillous adenoma, or villous adenoma) carry the highest risk of malignant transformation of all types of colonic polyps. A villous adenomatous polyp has the highest risk (∼ 50%) of malignant transformation of the three types of adenomatous polyps. The larger the villous polyp, the higher the risk.

Image File: 735-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cf65ac637952.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - A submucosal leiomyomatous polyp** - A leiomyomatous polyp is most often a benign lesion of the muscularis propria or muscularis mucosa (smooth muscle of the gastrointestinal tract) with a very low potential for malignancy. Although they can present with pain, constipation, weight loss, and blood in stool, bleeding, as seen in this patient, it is unlikely to have been a predisposing factor as this type of polyp chiefly affects young women and girls.

**B - A submucosal lipomatous polyp** - Regardless of size, a submucosal lipomatous polyp carries a very low risk of malignant transformation. Lipomas are most commonly found subcutaneously. However, when found in the colon, they can become large, fungating, and ulcerated, which can mimic the appearance of primary colorectal cancer. This patient's anemia could be the result of an ulcerated polyp of this kind, but it would not explain his constitutional symptoms.

**D - A pedunculated inflammatory polyp** - Regardless of size, a pedunculated inflammatory polyp does not carry any risk of neoplastic transformation itself. However, the tissue surrounding these polyps is prone to dysplasia (and therefore a higher risk of neoplastic transformation) due to the constant inflammation in the area. Regardless, this type of polyp is only seen in advanced IBD, which this patient has no history of.

**E - A serrated hyperplastic polyp** - Serrated polyps carry a moderate risk of malignant transformation. Of the three main types of serrated polyps (hyperplastic, sessile serrated, and traditional serrated) a single 0.4-cm hyperplastic polyp carries the lowest risk of malignancy because there is no dysplasia present.

**F - A tubular adenomatous polyp** - Tubular adenoma is the most common histological variety of colonic adenoma, comprising ∼ 80% of all adenomatous polyps. These common polyps carry a relatively small risk of malignant transformation (∼ 5%). Increasing size is associated with a higher risk of malignancy. However, another type of polyp is a greater predisposing factor for this patient's condition.

**G - A sessile hamartomatous polyp** - Regardless of size, sessile hamartomatous polyps are generally a benign finding and unlikely to result in malignant transformation. Although hamartomatous polyps found in the context of certain conditions (i.e., Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, Juvenile polyps, and Cowden syndrome) have an increased risk of malignant transformation, this patient lacks other signs or symptoms characteristic of these syndromes.

