### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Destruction of intrahepatic bile ducts** - Destruction of intrahepatic bile ducts is the underlying mechanism of primary biliary cholangitis (PBC). As a result, chronic cholestasis with ensuing secondary hepatic damage and liver cirrhosis can develop. While most patients are asymptomatic in the early stages of the disease, affected individuals can develop cholestatic pruritus, as seen here. Antimitochondrial antibodies are found in 95% of patients with PBC. This patient's hypothyroidism is most likely due to Hashimoto thyroiditis (elevated anti-thyroid peroxidase antibodies), which is commonly associated with PBC.

Image File: 736-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_602c1df5414ce.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hepatocellular accumulation of copper** - Copper accumulation in the body (including hepatocellular copper accumulation) is the underlying mechanism of Wilson disease. Although Wilson disease leads to hepatic damage, which can present with hepatomegaly and cholestasis, affected individuals generally present at a younger age with a broad spectrum of neurologic manifestations (e.g., extrapyramidal symptoms) and Kayser-Fleischer rings. Moreover, Wilson disease would not explain this patient's positive testing for antimitochondrial antibodies.

**B - Idiopathic hepatocellular accumulation of fat** - Idiopathic hepatocellular accumulation of fat is the underlying mechanism of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Individuals with NASH generally do not exhibit signs of hepatic disease in early stages of NASH, but progression to cirrhosis can occur, which can present with hepatomegaly and cholestasis. However, this patient does not have risk factors for NASH, such as obesity and diabetes mellitus. Moreover, NASH would not explain this patient's positive testing for antimitochondrial antibodies.

**C - Neoplasia of the ampulla of Vater** - Neoplasia of the ampulla of Vater can manifest with fatigue, painless jaundice, and pruritus secondary to cholestasis. However, this patient lacks other typical features of an underlying malignancy, such as a history of weight loss and/or anorexia. Moreover, periampullary carcinoma would not explain this patient's positive testing for antimitochondrial antibodies.

**E - Autoimmune-mediated destruction of hepatocytes** - Autoimmune-mediated destruction of hepatocytes is the underlying mechanism of autoimmune hepatitis. While patients with autoimmune hepatitis can also present with jaundice, pruritus, hepatomegaly, and a history of autoimmune thyroid disease, this patient lacks other typical features of the disease, such as weight loss, abdominal pain, anti-smooth muscle antibodies, and hypergammaglobulinemia. Moreover, autoimmune hepatitis is not usually associated with positive testing for antimitochondrial antibodies.

**F - Inflammation and fibrosis of the biliary tree** - Inflammation and fibrosis of the biliary tree is the underlying mechanism of primary sclerosing cholangitis. While patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis can present with fatigue, cholestasis, and hepatomegaly, this condition more commonly occurs in men and is associated with inflammatory bowel disease. Moreover, primary sclerosing cholangitis would be associated with the development of pANCA, not antimitochondrial antibodies.

