### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Enterography** - Colovesical fistulas most commonly develop in patients with transmural intestinal inflammatory disorders (e.g., diverticulitis, Crohn disease) and typically manifest with recurrent urinary tract infections, pneumaturia, and fecaluria, all of which are seen here. The initial diagnosis is made with urinalysis and urine culture and confirmed on abdominal CT enterography or MR enterography. Alternatively, enteroclysis may be used, but this method is more invasive than CT enterography or MR enterography. Typical imaging findings include air and/or contrast medium within the bladder and thickening of the adjacent bladder and intestinal walls. After the diagnosis is confirmed, a colonoscopy should be performed to establish the exact etiology and confirm the location of the fistula. Treatment of colovesical fistulas includes bowel rest, antibiotics (fluoroquinolone plus metronidazole), and bladder decompression, followed by surgical correction of the fistula.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ileocolonoscopy** - In patients with a colovesical fistula, ileocolonoscopy is used to confirm the location of the fistula and establish the exact etiology. Since ileocolonoscopy is more invasive and less sensitive than other diagnostic methods, it is not the most appropriate initial test in the diagnosis of colovesical fistulas.

**B - Diagnostic laparoscopy** - Diagnostic laparoscopy is used to collect biopsies of suspicious abdominopelvic lesions, to confirm the diagnosis of endometriosis, or to establish the underlying cause of acute abdominal pain in hemodynamically stable patients. Laparoscopy has no diagnostic value in patients with a colovesical fistula.

**D - Cystoscopy** - Cystoscopy can be used in patients with a colovesical fistula. However, this test has a low sensitivity for fistulas and is generally reserved for patients with a suspected colovesical fistula due to a malignant process (e.g., bladder or colon cancer).

**E - Excretory urography** - Excretory urography or intravenous pyelography is used in the diagnosis of hydronephrosis and, to a lesser extent, nephrolithiasis. It is not used in the diagnostic workup of colovesical fistulas. Excretory urography uses intravenous contrast, which is eliminated renally and excreted into the bladder. Unless severe bladder obstruction is also present, the fistula tract is not visible on excretory urography.

