### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Chronic viral hepatitis** - Chronic viral hepatitis, alcoholic hepatitis, and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis are the most common causes of cirrhosis in the United States. Among the viral etiologies, chronic hepatitis C (HCV) is more common than chronic hepatitis B. HCV transmission is most frequently associated with injected drug use and blood transfusions but may also occur among individuals with multiple sexual partners. Fifty to 85% of patients infected with HCV develop a chronic infection and 5 to 30% of patients with chronic infections develop cirrhosis. This patient's alcohol use is mild and is, therefore, an unlikely cause of his cirrhosis.

Image File: 738-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d766f5134a7e.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Congestive hepatopathy** - Congestive hepatopathy (CH) causes liver cirrhosis through chronic congestion of hepatic veins secondary to heart failure. CH manifests with peripheral edema, as seen in this case, but this patient's normal respiratory (no bilateral basilar rales) and cardiac (absent S3 or S4 gallop) examinations and absent hepatojugular reflux make heart failure unlikely.

**C - Primary biliary cholangitis** - Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is an autoimmune disease caused by lymphocytic infiltration and destruction of the intralobular bile ducts that can progress to liver cirrhosis. However, PBC is more common in women than men (9:1) and typically manifests with severe fatigue and marked pruritus before signs and symptoms of cirrhosis develop. Furthermore, PBC is often associated with other autoimmune conditions (e.g., autoimmune thyroid disease, CREST syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis), which this patient has no history or symptoms of.

**D - Primary sclerosing cholangitis** - Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is an autoimmune disease caused by chronic progressive inflammation and destruction of intrahepatic and extrahepatic bile ducts that can progress to liver cirrhosis. While PSC most commonly manifests in middle-aged men, it is also strongly associated with chronic inflammatory bowel diseases (∼ 90%), particularly ulcerative colitis, which this patient has no signs of (e.g., bloody diarrhea, abdominal pain and cramps, tenesmus). Moreover, PSC usually manifests with fatigue and pruritus before signs and symptoms of cirrhosis develop

**E - Autoimmune hepatitis** - Autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) is a form of chronic hepatitis that can progress to liver cirrhosis in untreated patients. However, AIH more commonly manifests in women than men (4:1) and is associated with other autoimmune conditions such as type 1 diabetes and celiac disease, which this patient has no signs of (e.g., polyuria, polydipsia, diarrhea, flatulence, abdominal bloating).

**F - Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis** - Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a form of liver inflammation due to excess fat accumulation in liver cells that may progress to liver cirrhosis. NASH is a common cause of cirrhosis. However, NASH often manifests in obese patients with metabolic syndrome and is associated with type 2 diabetes. This patient has a normal BMI and shows no signs of type 2 diabetes (e.g., polyuria, polydipsia), making NASH less likely.

**G - Primary hemochromatosis** - Primary hemochromatosis (HC) leads to abnormal iron deposition in specific organs and may progress to liver cirrhosis. HC is among the common causes of cirrhosis. However, HC also manifests with bronze skin and diabetes mellitus, which are not seen in this patient. Moreover, HC is an inherited disease, and this patient doesn't have a family history of HC.

