### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Pancreatic carcinoma** - Individuals with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome are at increased risk of developing ovarian, breast, and pancreatic cancers. In addition, individuals with PJS have a 40% lifetime risk of developing colorectal cancer.

Image File: 740-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d92eb402c.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Medulloblastoma** - Brain tumors, such as medulloblastoma, are not associated with PJS but with Turcot syndrome, a variant of familial adenomatous polyposis. It is important to rule out this condition in anyone presenting with colonic polyps. However, this patient does not present with headaches, behavioral changes, seizures, sensory deficits, or any other features that would indicate an intracranial process. Additionally, he has hamartomatous rather than neoplastic polyps, which rules out FAP.

**B - Enterovesicular fistula** - Enterovesicular fistula formation is not associated with PJS but is a common complication of Crohn disease. This patient's family history is a risk factor for Crohn disease, and the bloody stools could also be a sign of this. However, the polyps found on colonoscopy and mucocutaneous hyperpigmentation are not consistent with Crohn disease.

**C - Mandibular osteoma** - Mandibular osteomas are not associated with PJS but with Gardner syndrome, a variant of familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). The underlying gene mutation predisposes to bony and soft tissue tumors (e.g., osteomas, desmoid tumors, and sebaceous cysts) in addition to the colonic findings of FAP. This individual has hamartomatous rather than neoplastic polyps, which rules out FAP.

**E - Thyroid adenoma** - Thyroid adenomas are not associated with PJS but are seen in Cowden syndrome, an autosomal dominant condition that also presents with GI polyps and skin manifestations. The typical skin manifestations in this syndrome are papules and hyperkeratosis rather than the hyperpigmentation seen here.

**F - Alopecia** - Alopecia is not seen in PJS but in Cronkhite-Canada syndrome, a rare, nonfamilial disorder that presents with cutaneous hyperpigmentation (without mucosal involvement) and benign hamartomatous colonic polyps. However, this patient has mucocutaneous hyperpigmentation, which is not associated with CCS.

