### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Ectopic gastric mucosa on Technetium-99m pertechnetate scan** - Technetium-99m pertechnetate scan showing ectopic gastric mucosa in the small bowel is diagnostic of Meckel diverticulum in children. Meckel diverticulum is a true diverticulum that may contain ectopic gastric mucosa and/or pancreatic tissue. Acid-secretion by gastric mucosa within the diverticulum results in ileal ulceration and subsequent bleeding. Consequently, chronic blood loss can lead to iron deficiency anemia, and thus a low MCV, as seen in this patient.

Image File: 741-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5970b7f8b29ab.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Double bubble sign on abdominal x-ray** - Plain abdominal x-ray showing double bubble sign is suggestive of duodenal atresia. This girl does not present with bilious vomiting or abdominal distention, which would be expected in this condition. Additionally, she is 15 months old and therefore past the window in which duodenal atresia would manifest (24–48 hours after birth).

Image File: 741-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9155c6a8.jpg

**B - Cobblestone mucosa on colonoscopy** - Cobblestone mucosa (due to linear ulcerations of the mucosa) is a classical colonoscopic finding of Crohn disease (CD). Although intestinal blood loss in CD can cause iron deficiency anemia and a low MCV, as seen in this patient, this condition is associated with further symptoms such as nonbloody chronic diarrhea, abdominal pain, and failure to thrive. Moreover, since the peak incidence of CD is 15–35 years, it is unlikely in this 15-month old patient.

**C - Neutrophil infiltrated crypts on colonic biopsy** - A colonic biopsy showing neutrophil infiltrated crypts can be seen in ulcerative colitis (UC). This disease can manifest with lower gastrointestinal bleeding and subsequent microcytic anemia, as seen in this patient. However, UC is also associated with abdominal pain, tenesmus, failure to thrive, and extraintestinal manifestations (e.g., uveitis, arthritis, erythema nodosum). Furthermore, the peak incidence of UC is 15–35 years; and therefore, it is unlikely in this 15-month-old patient.

**D - Absent ganglionic cells on rectal suction biopsy** - Rectal suction biopsy showing absent ganglionic cells is diagnostic of Hirschsprung's disease. This disease can manifest in neonates with bilious vomiting, abdominal distention, and delayed meconium passage, or at a later stage of childhood with chronic or recurrent constipation. However, it is not associated with the painless lower gastrointestinal bleeding seen in this girl.

**E - Target sign on abdominal ultrasound** - In young children, abdominal ultrasound showing a target sign is suggestive of intussusception. While intussusception can cause lower gastrointestinal bleeding, it usually presents with acute cyclical colicky abdominal pain, vomiting, and abdominal tenderness. This patient has a benign abdominal exam and no concomitant symptoms, making intussusception unlikely.

Image File: 741-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e4a49f2c2624.jpg

