### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Administer standard doses of all vaccines due at this visit** - This child should receive the standard doses of all vaccines due at this visit. Neither mild acute illness (e.g., upper respiratory tract infection, otitis media, low-grade fever, mild diarrhea) nor current antibiotic therapy are contraindications for vaccination (except for oral live typhoid vaccine, because antibiotics might compromise the immune response to this vaccine). All children must be immunized with the standard doses of vaccines according to their chronological age; doses should not be adjusted to weight or gestational age. This 1-year-old child should receive the following vaccines at this visit: the fourth dose of Hib and PCV13 vaccines, the first dose of Hepatitis A vaccine, and the first dose of both MMR and varicella vaccines.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Administer weight-adjusted doses of all due vaccines after the illness resolves** - Valid contraindications for vaccination include severe acute illness (e.g., infection with fever > 38.5°C / 101.3°F), previous adverse reaction related to vaccination (e.g., anaphylaxis), and severe allergies to components of a vaccine. Mild illnesses, such as otitis media and low grade fever are not contraindications for vaccination. Weight-adjusted doses are never recommended.

**C - Administer standard doses of all due vaccines after 5 weeks** - Preterm infants should be vaccinated at the same chronological age, according to the same schedule, and using the same precautions as for full-term infants. Correction for gestational age is not recommended (except for the Hepatitis B vaccine when the preterm newborn's birth weight is < 2 kg).

**D - Administer weight-adjusted doses of all vaccines due at this visit** - This child should receive all vaccines due at this visit because he has no valid contraindications for vaccination (i.e., severe acute illness, previous adverse reaction related to vaccination, severe allergies to components of a vaccine). However, weight-adjusted doses are never recommended.

**E - Administer standard doses of inactivated vaccines at this visit and live vaccines after the illness resolves** - Live attenuated vaccines are not recommended in pregnant and/or immunocompromised individuals (e.g., those receiving immunosuppressive therapy, patients with congenital immunodeficiencies, severely immunocompromised HIV patients). In such cases, the standard doses of inactivated vaccines might be indicated, but the administration of live vaccines should be postponed until after delivery or until the patient is no longer considered immunocompromised. This patient has neither of these contraindications, so another approach would be more appropriate.

