### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Administer inactivated influenza vaccine** - Although the patient has a history of egg allergy, there is no contraindication for him to receive the vaccine. The inactivated influenza vaccine contains only small amounts of egg protein and no serious reaction has been reported in recipients with a history of egg allergy. For patients with severe reactions to eggs, observation for 30 minutes following vaccination should still be considered.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Perform skin prick testing for egg allergy** - Although skin testing before administration of the influenza vaccine was suggested for patients with a history of egg allergy in the past, it is no longer recommended. Even a confirmed allergy against egg proteins is not a contraindication for vaccination. Skin testing is recommended for evaluation of patients with a history of allergy to the vaccine itself (which may be caused by a component other than ovalbumin such as preservatives) or latex from gloves.

**C - Administer oseltamivir** - Oseltamivir can also be used for chemoprophylaxis of influenza in certain groups of patients (patients at high risk of complications, nonresponders to vaccination) after exposure to an infected patient. However, the CDC does not recommend routine use of oseltamivir for chemoprophylaxis of influenza.

**D - Administer influenza immunoglobulins** - Influenza immunoglobulins are an experimental treatment for patients with active influenza infection. There is not sufficient data to support the effectiveness of the treatment, and it is not considered an effective form of prophylaxis.

**E - End the examination without additional measures** - This patient would most likely benefit from a different recommendation. Ending the examination now would provide no benefit to the patient.

**F - Prescribe oseltamivir for standby emergency treatment** - Oseltamivir is an antiviral drug used for the treatment of influenza virus infection. However, this patient does not require treatment for influenza because he does not have signs or symptoms consistent with the disease and does not report being in contact with infected persons.

