### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Octreotide** - Octreotide, a somatostatin analog, inhibits the secretion of GI hormones such as gastrin, secretin, cholecystokinin (CCK), gastric inhibitory peptide (GIP), and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). This inhibition decreases intestinal fluid secretion and gastrointestinal motility, thereby prolonging intestinal transit time, which allows for augmented intestinal absorption of fluid and electrolytes. Together, these effects reduce diarrhea. Octreotide causes splanchnic vasoconstriction directly by stimulating somatostatin receptors in splanchnic smooth muscle and indirectly by decreasing the secretion of splanchnic vasodilators (e.g., glucagon, VIP). Octreotide is used to treat bleeding esophageal varices, gastrinomas, and severe noninfectious diarrhea (e.g., chemotherapy-induced diarrhea, carcinoid syndrome).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ondansetron** - Ondansetron, a 5-HT3 serotonin receptor antagonist, has been shown to decrease intestinal motility and is being investigated as an antidiarrheal medication (e.g., for patients with diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome). However, ondansetron has not been approved to treat chemotherapy-induced diarrhea, and it does not significantly affect splanchnic blood flow. It is primarily used to treat chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting because it inhibits 5-HT3 receptors in the area postrema and afferent vagal fibers.

**B - Loperamide** - Loperamide is used as a first-line treatment in chemotherapy-induced diarrhea. It inhibits intestinal motility by stimulating μ-opioid receptors and inhibiting acetylcholine release in the myenteric plexus. However, loperamide does not cause splanchnic artery vasoconstriction.

**C - Erythromycin** - Erythromycin, a motilin agonist, increases intestinal motility, which is the opposite effect of what is needed to treat a patient with diarrhea.

**D - Metoclopramide** - Metoclopramide, a dopamine-2 and serotonin receptor antagonist, is not used to treat diarrhea, because it promotes gastrointestinal motility. Metoclopramide can be used to treat chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting.

