### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Gastroenteritis** - Listeria monocytogenes most commonly causes self-limited gastroenteritis in healthy adults. It classically is accompanied by a history of dairy product or deli meat consumption (it grows well at refrigeration temperatures). Although typically a self-limiting condition in healthy adults, Listeria infection is more concerning in infants, the elderly, and those with compromised immune systems. These high-risk individuals should be treated with ampicillin.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cystitis** - Escherichia coli is the most common pathogen implicated in cystitis. E. coli can cause neonatal meningitis, as seen in this patient. However, E. coli is a gram-negative rather than a gram-positive rod, and, therefore, is not the pathogen responsible for this patient's condition. Listeria monocytogenes is not typically known to cause cystitis.

**B - Pneumonia** - Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most commonly implicated pathogen for pneumonia in healthy adults. Although it is a common pathogen responsible for meningitis in infants (1 month to 2 years), it is uncommon in neonates. Listeria monocytogenes is not a common cause of pneumonia in healthy adults.

**C - Pelvic inflammatory disease** - Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae are the most common bacteria responsible for pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) in adolescents and adults. Although these bacteria can cause neonatal infections, they typically present with conjunctivitis and not with the meningitis seen in this patient. Listeria monocytogenes is not known to cause PID.

**D - Meningitis** - Streptococcus pneumoniae and Neisseria meningitidis are the most commonly implicated bacterial pathogens in meningitis in healthy adults. Although these are also the most common pathogens responsible for meningitis in infants (1 month to 2 years), they are uncommon in neonates. Listeria monocytogenes, the pathogen responsible for this patient's presentation, can cause meningitis in adults, however, it does so typically only in elderly (> 60 years) or immunocompromised individuals. Another clinical condition would be more likely in a healthy adult with L. monocytogenes.

