### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Ensure that the child is wearing a helmet and knee pads when cycling** - Anticipatory guidance to parents of preschoolers and school-age children children consists of recommendations regarding nutrition, physical development (e.g., being physically active for at least 60 minutes daily), personal hygiene (e.g., brush twice and floss once day), sleep, media use, cognitive and social development, techniques for behavioral modification (e.g., positive reinforcement for good behavior), and, most importantly, child safety. Unintentional injury is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in children over 1 year of age. Children should always wear protective gear when cycling or performing other risky activities (e.g., climbing) and use a child safety seat appropriate for age and anthropometry when riding in a car. At 5–6 years of age, the child should be taught safe street habits and, if possible, how to swim. Children under 6 years of age should be supervised continuously during play; for 6–8-year-olds, supervision is necessary when near bodies of water or when engaged in risky activities. At home, fire alarms should be installed, fire escape plans implemented, firearms removed or stored under lock-and-key, and potentially harmful household products and tools kept out of reach.

Children should be encouraged to tell their parents if they are being bullied or face other problems at school. To minimize the likelihood of abuse, children should also be told that no adults should ever ask them to keep a secret from their parents or express interest in the child’s private parts.

Question Difficulty: 0

** Other Answers: **

**A - Prepare separate meals for the child and fix the portion sizes of each meal** - By 1 year of age, children that are otherwise well no longer require separate food and should be eating the same meals as the parents. Healthy children can be trusted to decide how much to eat, so portion size restriction is not usually required.

**C - Include a compulsory daytime nap for the child in her daily routine** - While a majority of toddlers take daytime naps, only approx. 5% of children still do so by 6 years of age. At this age, daytime naps are not necessary and should not be forced, as they can delay sleep onset at night. The focus of guidance should be on establishing a routine for going to bed at night and sleeping. For children 6–12 years of age, 9–12 hours of sleep is recommended.

**D - Set expectations for child's academic performance at school** - It is important for parents to be involved with their children’s schooling, and they should be available to help their children with schoolwork. However, instead of the parent setting expectations for academic performance, children should be encouraged to set their own achievable goals and ask for help as needed. Good behavior should be met with reinforcement (e.g., with praise, privileges) that is focused on actions rather than immutable traits (e.g., intelligence).

**E - Use a rear-facing seat for the child when she is in a car** - Children under 13 years of age should always ride in the back seat, and children below 4 years of age should use rear-facing seats. A forward-facing car seat should be used for children 4–8 years of age (or earlier if the child outgrows the rear-facing car seat). A booster seat should be used for children 8–12 years of age or as soon as the child outgrows the forward-facing car seat.

