### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Hepatitis B serologies** - Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infections are common worldwide, with a global prevalence of ∼ 250 million HBV carriers. Screening tests for HBV infection are indicated for asymptomatic patients who have a high risk for previous HBV exposure. This population includes people who were born in countries with high HBV prevalence, such as the Philippines (and all countries in Asia). Accordingly, this patient should undergo serologic testing for HBV, which includes the hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and anti-hepatitis B surface antigen antibody (anti-HBs).

Image File: 752-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ad6089cb7080.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Testicular examination** - Testicular examination can be used to evaluate for masses that are concerning for testicular cancer, the most common solid malignant tumor in men between 20–35 years of age. However, because of the overall low incidence of testicular cancer and its high survival rate (5-year survival rate of > 95%), screening examinations (by either clinicians or patients) are unlikely to provide meaningful health benefits and are, therefore, not recommended in patients who are asymptomatic. Manifestations of testicular cancer include scrotal heaviness, testicular firmness, and localized pain in the testicle and/or scrotum, none of which are seen in this patient.

**C - Nucleic acid amplification tests for chlamydia and gonorrhea** - Nucleic acid amplification tests for chlamydia and gonorrhea are used to detect these common sexually-transmitted infections. However, routine screening for chlamydia and gonorrhea is not generally recommended for men who have sex with only women and are asymptomatic. Men infected with chlamydia are often asymptomatic or present with clear urethral discharge and dysuria; gonorrheal infections typically manifest with unilateral scrotal pain and swelling (epididymitis) and/or purulent urethral discharge and dysuria (urethritis), which are not seen in this patient.

Routine screening for chlamydia and gonorrhea is recommended for men who have sex with men, men who have sex with women when evaluated in settings with high prevalence (e.g., sexual health clinics), sexually-active women ≤ 25 years of age, women > 25 years of age who have multiple sexual partners or a partner with a sexually-transmitted infection, and women who are pregnant.

**D - HSV serologies** - HSV serologies are used to determine if a patient has current or previous HSV-1 or HSV-2 infection. HSV infections are very common; over 90% of the world's population > 40 years of age has a history of HSV infection, which is typically asymptomatic. However, routine screening for HSV infection in patients who are asymptomatic is not recommended. This patient does not have typical manifestations of HSV infection (e.g., recurrent vesicles that ulcerate, painful lymphadenopathy), and, therefore, should not receive screening.

**E - Hemoglobin A1c test** - The hemoglobin A1c concentration is used to evaluate patients for diabetes mellitus, a condition with higher incidence among people from Asia and people who consume a high-carbohydrate diet. Screening guidelines for diabetes mellitus differ among professional societies. The United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends screening individuals 35–70 years of age with a BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2. The American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends screening individuals with a BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2 who have at least one additional risk factor (e.g., physical inactivity, hypertension, dyslipidemia, a first-degree relative with diabetes) and individuals ≥ 45 years of age who have no risk factors. This 26-year-old patient has a BMI of 22 kg/m2; screening for diabetes mellitus is not recommended for him at this time.

**F - Nontreponemal rapid plasma reagin test** - The nontreponemal rapid plasma reagin test is used as an initial screening test to detect syphilis, a sexually-transmitted infection. Routine screening for syphilis is recommended for patients with HIV infection, men who have sex with men, and patients who engage in high-risk sexual behaviors (e.g., people with multiple sexual partners, people who exchange sex for money), none of which apply to this patient.

**G - Spirometry** - Spirometry is a type of pulmonary function test (PFT) that measures breath volume and airflow rates. PFTs can be used to diagnose ventilatory disorders (e.g., obstructive lung diseases, restrictive lung diseases). This patient has smoked one pack of cigarettes daily for 7 years, which increases his risk for developing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). However, PFTs are not recommended as a screening test for COPD in patients who are asymptomatic, and this patient does not have typical manifestations of COPD (e.g., dyspnea, chronic cough). Spirometry is also used to evaluate patients who have symptoms of asthma (e.g., intermittent dyspnea, cough, wheezing), none of which are seen in this patient.

