### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Deferoxamine** - Intravenous infusion of deferoxamine is used in acute iron intoxication to chelate excess iron from blood, which is then filtered in the kidneys and excreted in the urine.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Penicillamine** - Penicillamine is an organic chelator used to treat arsenic, lead, and copper poisoning. It is unlikely that this patient has acute intoxication with any of these three compounds. Acute arsenic poisoning causes abdominal pain, diarrhea, oral ulcers, garlic breath, and/or arrhythmias. Acute copper poisoning presents with abdominal pain, hypotension, and melena. Lead poisoning is associated with mental status changes due to encephalopathy and peripheral neuropathy leading to wrist drop or foot drop not present in this patient. None are associated with metabolic acidosis.

**B - Syrup of ipecac** - Syrup of ipecac facilitates gastric emptying but is no longer recommended for acute intoxication. It is generally ineffective at preventing systemic absorption, may delay administration of appropriate therapy, and has a higher risk of aspiration than other therapies. It is a poor choice for treating acute iron intoxication.

**D - Sodium bicarbonate** - Sodium bicarbonate alkalinizes urine and is used to treat acute salicylate poisoning. Although salicylate poisoning can eventually cause anion gap metabolic acidosis as a late symptom, it initially presents with respiratory alkalosis, tachypnea, tachycardia, elevated body temperature, and tinnitus.

**E - Succimer** - Succimer is an organic chelator that is used to treat mild to moderate lead poisoning in pediatric patients. While lead poisoning can manifest with abdominal pain, it is also associated with mental status changes due to encephalopathy and peripheral neuropathy, which leads to wrist drop or foot drop. Lead poisoning does not cause metabolic acidosis.

**F - Activated charcoal** - Activated charcoal can be used in acute poisoning to bind medications in the gastrointestinal tract and prevent their absorption. It is most effective for drugs like carbamazepine and phenobarbital. Activated charcoal is ineffective in preventing iron absorption or clearing iron from the body, making this answer incorrect.

**G - Calcium EDTA** - EDTA is an organic chelator used to treat severe lead poisoning. EDTA bound to lead is filtered by the kidneys and excreted in urine. While lead poisoning can present with abdominal pain, it is also associated with mental status changes due to encephalopathy and peripheral neuropathy leading to wrist drop or foot drop. Lead poisoning also does not cause metabolic acidosis.

