### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Griseofulvin** - Griseofulvin has most likely caused this patient's subtherapeutic INR. As an inducer of the cytochrome-P450 system, it increases the metabolism of warfarin, thereby reducing its serum levels. Many medications influence the metabolism of warfarin (e.g., carbamazepine, rifampin, phenobarbital, phenytoin) leading to fluctuations in INR. Preemptive dose adjustments and close monitoring are warranted when interacting medications are started or stopped.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ginkgo biloba** - Gingko biloba is a cytochrome-P450 inhibitor and hence reduces the metabolism of warfarin, resulting in an elevation of INR and an increased risk of bleeding. However, this patient presents with a subtherapeutic INR.

**B - Simvastatin** - Simvastatin does not affect the cytochrome-P450 system and hence has no effect on the patient's warfarin metabolism.

**C - Hydrochlorothiazide** - Hydrochlorothiazide does not affect the cytochrome-P450 system and hence has no effect on the patient's warfarin metabolism.

**D - Enalapril** - Enalapril does not affect the cytochrome-P450 system and hence has no effect on this patient's warfarin metabolism.

**E - Lansoprazole** - Lansoprazole is a substrate of the cytochrome-P450 system but does not induce or inhibit the activity of the enzymes involved in this system. Omeprazole, a different PPI, is a cytochrome-P450 inhibitor. However, CYP inhibition would reduce the metabolism of warfarin, thus resulting in an elevated rather than a subtherapeutic INR.

