### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Preparation of the skin with chlorhexidine and alcohol** - Proper hand hygiene and preparing the skin with chlorhexidine is the most effective strategy in decreasing the risk of infection (e.g., CLABSI) from CVL placement. Chlorhexidine has proven superior to iodine-based compounds for antisepsis.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Initiation of anticoagulation after placement** - Anticoagulation is not routinely performed after central venous line placement to reduce the risk of catheter-related complications. Flushing of the line with heparin is only be considered in patients who require long-term central venous access.

**B - Initiation of periprocedural systemic antibiotic prophylaxis** - Periprocedural systemic antibiotic prophylaxis is not routinely performed during CVL insertion to reduce catheter colonization or CLABSI. Flushing of the line with antibiotics is generally only considered in patients who require long-term central venous access or who are immune suppressed.

**C - Replacement of the central venous line every 7-10 days** - Routine replacement of CVL every 7–10 days is not recommended because it does not reduce the risk of CLABSI and unnecessarily exposes the patient to additional procedures. Central lines should be inserted and accessed only when absolutely necessary and should be removed as soon as possible. Hospitalized patients with CVLs should be assessed daily to determine whether the line can be removed.

**E - Placement of the central venous line in the femoral vein** - Placing the CVL in the femoral vein would not reduce complications, as femoral lines carry an increased risk of CLABSI due to their location. The preferred sites for CVL insertion are the subclavian and internal jugular veins. While the subclavian site minimizes the risk of infection, it is associated with a higher rate of iatrogenic pneumothorax. The internal jugular site, on the other hand, is associated with a greater risk of infection but a lower risk of pneumothorax.

