### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Shingles vaccine** - The CDC currently recommends the recombinant zoster vaccine as the preferred vaccine rather than the live zoster vaccine for the prevention of herpes zoster (shingles) and its related complications. The recombinant shingles vaccine (administered in 2 doses, 2–6 months apart) is recommended for immunocompetent adults ≥ 50 years of age, regardless of a history of shingles. Contraindications include severe allergies to gelatin, neomycin, or any other component of a shingles vaccine.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry screening** - Osteoporosis screening is performed with dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA). The bone density scan is recommended every 10 years for postmenopausal women older than 65 years of age, or younger postmenopausal women with a pathological fracture or other risk factors for osteoporosis (e.g., positive family history).

**B - Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine** - The pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine is recommended by the CDC for adults over 65 years of age or those at high risk of pneumococcal infections (e.g., smokers, patients with diabetes, asthma, alcoholism, heart or lung disease). This patient does not meet these conditions.

**C - Colonoscopy** - The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening for colorectal cancer in all asymptomatic adults between 45 and 75 years of age who have an average risk (e.g., no inflammatory bowel disease, adenomatous polyps, or family history of an inherited cancer syndrome). The previously recommended age to start screening was 50 years. Colonoscopy every 10 years is an appropriate strategy. Because this patient had her last colonoscopy 5 years ago, which was normal, and lacks symptoms suggestive of colorectal cancer (e.g., weight loss, hematochezia), a colonoscopy is not indicated at this time.

**D - Pap smear** - A Pap smear is recommended every 3–5 years in women 21–65 years of age (or even better for patients 30–65 years of age, a Pap smear + HPV test every 5 years) This woman had a normal Pap smear 2 years ago.

**E - Influenza vaccine** - Because the influenza viruses are constantly evolving, the influenza vaccine composition is reviewed, and a newly updated vaccine is released (and recommended) for every flu season (∼ Oct.–Apr. in the northern hemisphere). This patient should return again in the early fall for an influenza vaccine.

**F - Tetanus vaccine** - The CDC recommends a tetanus booster every 10 years. The patient received this vaccine 6 years ago.

