### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Administer vitamin A** - This child with cystic fibrosis exhibits classic signs of Vitamin A deficiency, i.e., night blindness, xerophthalmia (manifested as Bitot's spots in this patient), and skin manifestations (xeroderma and follicular hyperkeratosis). Although patients with fat malabsorption disorders such as cystic fibrosis, celiac disease, IBD, pancreatic insufficiency, and cholestasis are particularly vulnerable to developing this deficiency, it can be prevented with fat-soluble vitamin supplementation.

Image File: 761-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e42835ea4ad5.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer niacin** - Niacin deficiency (Vitamin B3 deficiency) leads to a condition called pellagra. Dermatitis in these patients usually presents as a symmetric rash with hyperpigmented skin lesions in the sun-exposed areas of skin, rather than the elevated papules seen on this child's trunk. She has none of these symptoms or risk factors for niacin deficiency.

**B - Administer zinc** - The classic triad of zinc deficiency is acral or periorificial dermatitis (dry, erythematous dry patches in an acral distribution or surrounding body orifices), alopecia, and diarrhea. This patient's skin lesions are morphologically inconsistent with the dermatitis seen in zinc deficiency. Also, her lesions are located on the trunk and extremities, rather than the palms, soles, and nail beds, or periorally. In addition, she does not have any of the known risk factors for zinc deficiency.

**D - Administer riboflavin** - Riboflavin (Vitamin B2) deficiency leads to cheilitis, glossitis, stomatitis, normocytic normochromic anemia, seborrheic dermatitis, and a sore throat. Although riboflavin deficiency can also cause eye involvement (corneal vascularization), it does not lead to impaired vision or gray conjunctival lesions. This child has none of these symptoms or risk factors for riboflavin deficiency.

**E - Administer lutein** - Lutein is a macula-protective supplement that may benefit patients with macular degeneration. Although juvenile macular degeneration could cause poor night vision in a child, this condition is extremely rare. Also, a lutein deficiency is inconsistent with the rest of this child's symptoms.

