### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Reassurance** - First-line interventions in patients with infantile colic include parental support, changes to feeding (e.g., changing the volume of feeds, adequate burping), and initiation of soothing techniques (e.g., use of a pacifier, placing the child in a swing, rocking the infant). The parents can be reassured that the symptoms usually resolve spontaneously by 3–4 months of age.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform lumbar puncture** - A lumbar puncture should be performed in suspected meningitis, which may also present with high-pitched crying and irritability. There should be a very low threshold for suspecting meningitis in young children, since the classic triad of meningitis (i.e., fever, headache, and neck stiffness) is frequently not present. However, this patient is generally well, afebrile, and lacks further symptoms of meningitis such as an altered mental status, vomiting, and/or a bulging fontanelle (due to increased ICP).

**B - Administer simethicone** - Since swallowed air is suspected as an underlying mechanism, simethicone has been promoted as a treatment for infantile colic to help eliminate gas from the GI tract. However, new systematic reviews have not demonstrated the efficacy of its use. Excess gas should rather be eliminated by changing feeding techniques such as bottle-feeding in a vertical position using a curved bottle to allow frequent burping and reduce air-swallowing).

**C - Administer pantoprazole** - Administration of acid-suppressing pantoprazole is indicated in infants with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Although patients with GERD may also be irritable, this infant lacks signs of esophagitis such as regurgitation and/or vomiting of food shortly after feeding, poor appetite, weight loss, failure to thrive, and/or respiratory complications (e.g., wheezing, stridor, chronic cough).

**E - Recommend the use of Gripe water** - Gripe water is a mixture of herbs (e.g., dill and fennel) and water that is recommended by some alternative practitioners as a natural option for treating infantile colic. However, it is not recommended by the Food and Drug Administration. Also, its efficacy is unproven and the mixture may be contaminated with bacteria, toxins, or alcohol that place the infant at risk.

