### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine 13** - Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine 13 (PCV13) offers protection against 13 subtypes of Streptococcus pneumoniae and related diseases. PCV13 is currently recommended for all individuals ≥ 65 years with an immunocompromising condition (e.g., CLL, chemotherapy) and should be followed by the pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine 23 (PPSV23) at least 8 weeks later. Since this patient's last immunizations were 7 years ago and prior to his diagnosis of CLL (and chemotherapy treatment), he requires vaccination with PCV13 at this visit. Other indications for the PCV13 vaccination include CSF leaks, cochlear implants, asplenia, sickle cell disease, HIV, chronic renal failure, metastasis, and solid organ transplant.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Colonoscopy** - The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening for colorectal cancer in all asymptomatic adults between 45 and 75 years of age who have an average risk (e.g., no inflammatory bowel disease, adenomatous polyps, or family history of an inherited cancer syndrome). The previously recommended age to start screening was 50 years. Colonoscopy every 10 years is an appropriate strategy. Because this patient had his last colonoscopy 8 years ago, which was normal, and lacks symptoms suggestive of colorectal cancer (e.g., weight loss, hematochezia), a colonoscopy is not indicated at this time.

**C - Abdominal ultrasonography** - Abdominal ultrasonography can be used to screen for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) in high-risk individuals. The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends one-time screening for AAA with ultrasonography in men 65–75 years of age who have a history of smoking, which is not the case in this patient.

**D - Prostate-specific antigen measurement** - The USPSTF currently recommends that the decision to use prostate-specific antigen-based (PSA-based) screening for men aged 55–69 years be made on an individualized basis. Clinicians should discuss the potential benefits and harms of screening with patients. However, this man had a normal PSA concentration 8 months ago and therefore does not need to be retested at this time.

**E - Varicella vaccine** - The varicella vaccine is a live attenuated vaccine recommended for children to protect them against chickenpox. This man no longer requires the varicella vaccine, but he should receive the zoster vaccine if he has not yet had it. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends the recombinant zoster vaccine rather than the live zoster vaccine for the prevention of herpes zoster (shingles). The recombinant shingles vaccine (administered in two doses, 2–6 months apart) is recommended for immunocompetent adults ≥ 50 years of age, regardless of any history of shingles.

**F - Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine 13 and pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine 23** - The pneumococcal conjugate vaccine 13 (PCV13) and pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine 23 (PPSV23) should not be administered during the same visit. For adults ≥ 65 years of age with an immunocompromising condition (e.g., CLL), one of the two vaccines should be administered now, and the other should be given at least 8 weeks later.

**G - Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine 23** - Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine 23 (PPSV23) offers protection against several subtypes of Streptococcus pneumoniae and related diseases. PPSV23 should be administered to healthy individuals ≥ 65 years of age. However, this patient has an immunocompromising condition (CLL, chemotherapy) and first requires a different vaccination before receiving PPSV23. Individuals 19–64 years of age with chronic heart or lung disease, diabetes mellitus, alcohol use disorder, and/or chronic liver disease should receive the PPSV23 vaccination as well.

**H - Influenza vaccine** - Annual influenza vaccination is recommended for all persons ≥ 6 months of age who do not have contraindications at the start of the flu season, which begins near the end of October (in the northern hemisphere).

