### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Hyperlipidemia** - Early detection and treatment of hyperlipidemia is crucial to prevent ASCVD events like stroke or myocardial infarction. The guidelines for hyperlipidemia screening differ slightly among various expert groups. The current consensus is to screen all individuals aged 40–75 years using a fasting or nonfasting serum lipid profile test every 4–6 years in patients without additional ASCVD risk factors and at more frequent intervals in those with additional ASCVD risk factors. For adults aged 21–39 years, physicians should use their clinical judgment to determine whether screening is necessary, as the benefit of screening patients who have minimal or no ASCVD risk factors at an early age has not yet been confirmed.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Chlamydia and gonorrhea** - Chlamydia and gonorrhea are the most common causes of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). Although PID is most often asymptomatic, it can result in severe complications, including infertility and ectopic pregnancy. Therefore, both the USPSTF and CDC recommend annual screening with a nucleic acid amplification test for chlamydia and gonorrhea in sexually active women ≤ 24 years and women > 24 years with certain risk factors (e.g., new or multiple sex partners, a sex partner with an STI). The CDC also recommends annual screening for both sexually active HIV-positive men and men who have sex with men because of the higher incidence of gonorrhea and chlamydia infections in these populations. Routine chlamydia and gonorrhea screening is not currently recommended for sexually active, HIV-negative men in monogamous, heterosexual relationships, such as this patient.

**C - No further evaluation is necessary** - The USPSTF and other expert groups do recommend screening for a certain disease in this patient's age group.

**D - Prostate cancer** - The guidelines for prostate cancer screening differ slightly among various expert groups but the consensus is to screen men aged 55–69 years with a life expectancy of at least 10 years after informing the patient of the benefits as well as risks of prostate cancer screening (e.g., relatively high false-positive rate, additional unnecessary procedures), i.e., by employing a shared decision-making strategy. Prostate cancer screening is most commonly performed using a serum prostate-specific antigen test every 2 years. Screening can be initiated earlier at 45 years for black men and patients with a first-degree relative who developed early-onset prostate cancer (i.e., before 65 years), and at 40 years for a patient with multiple first-degree relatives who had early-onset prostate cancer. This 41-year old patient with a second-degree relative who developed prostate cancer at the age of 73 years does not require prostate cancer screening at this visit.

**E - Type 2 diabetes mellitus** - The USPSTF recommends screening for type 2 diabetes mellitus in individuals 35–70 years of age with a BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2. The American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends screening individuals with a BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2 who have at least one additional risk factor (e.g., physical inactivity, hypertension, dyslipidemia, a first-degree relative with diabetes) and individuals ≥ 45 years of age who have no risk factors. Though this 41-year-old patient's mother has type 2 diabetes mellitus, his BMI is normal. Screening is not recommended for him at this time.

