### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis** - This patient presents with adult-onset asthma, chronic sinusitis, mononeuritis multiplex (foot drop, loss of sensation in the distribution of the ulnar nerve), subcutaneous skin nodules, and palpable purpura, all of which are consistent with eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Churg-Strauss syndrome). Systemic signs of inflammation such as fatigue and fever are also commonly seen in EGPA. Moreover, patients with EGPA typically have pronounced eosinophilia and renal involvement (indicated by elevated BUN and serum creatinine), as seen here.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Granulomatosis with polyangiitis** - Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) can present with chronic sinusitis, cough, dyspnea, renal damage (as indicated by this patient's elevated BUN and serum creatinine), and palpable purpura. The nasopharyngeal involvement in GPA includes perforation/ulceration of the nasal septum, often leading to a saddle nose deformity. However, the adult-onset asthma and marked eosinophilia seen in this patient are not characteristic of GPA.

**B - Microscopic polyangiitis** - Microscopic polyangiitis can present with renal damage and palpable purpura, as seen in this patient. However, microscopic polyangiitis also presents with hemoptysis and rarely causes sinusitis, as seen in this patient. In addition, adult-onset asthma and pronounced eosinophilia are not typical of microscopic polyangiitis.

**C - Goodpasture syndrome** - This patient presents with a cough, dyspnea, and renal damage (as is evident in this patient's elevated BUN and serum creatinine), which is seen in Goodpasture syndrome. However, the presence of palpable purpura, skin nodules, neuropathy, and marked eosinophilia would not be consistent with this diagnosis. Furthermore, this patient lacks hemoptysis, which is frequently seen in patients with Goodpasture syndrome.

**D - Henoch-Schönlein purpura** - Henoch-Schönlein purpura (HSP) presents with palpable purpura and signs of renal disease, which is evident in this patient from her elevated BUN and serum creatinine. However, HSP typically manifests in a tetrad of symptoms that also includes arthralgias/arthritis and abdominal pain and is most commonly seen in children.

**E - Excessive glucocorticoid use** - Excessive corticosteroids use can lead to elevated blood pressure, malaise, and non-palpable purpura. However, these effects are only seen in patients taking systemic steroids; inhaled corticosteroids do usually not have significant systemic effects. Furthermore, while steroids may cause easy bruising, this patient has palpable purpura, which is not typically seen in excessive steroid use. Moreover, excessive steroid use is more likely to cause muscle weakness (myopathy) than polyneuropathy and presents with neutrophilia and eosinopenia, unlike this patient's pronounced eosinophilia.

**F - Rheumatoid arthritis** - Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) mainly presents with symptoms affecting the joints (stiffness, pain, deformities, etc.) but can manifest with extra-articular symptoms, such as dyspnea, cough, and fatigue in cases of pulmonary involvement or palpable purpura and neuropathy in cases of vasculitis. RA furthermore presents with palpable subcutaneous nodules on the extensor surfaces of the elbows (rheumatoid nodules), as seen in this patient. Extra-articular symptoms, such as vasculitis, are typically seen in patients with long-standing, severe RA. This patient lacks articular symptoms, and the presence of pronounced eosinophilia and chronic sinusitis is more suggestive of a different diagnosis.

**G - Polyarteritis nodosa** - Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) also presents with subcutaneous nodules, renal impairment (as is evident in this patient's elevated BUN and serum creatinine), polyneuropathy, and, occasionally, palpable purpura. However, PAN usually spares the lungs and typically presents with abdominal pain and melena as well as muscle and joint pain, which are not present in this patient.

