### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Post-traumatic stress disorder** - Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) can develop in response to experiencing a traumatic event (e.g., a car accident). Symptoms include distressed mood, altered reactivity (e.g., sleep disturbances), avoidance of triggering stimuli (driving in this case), and intrusive symptoms such as flashbacks and nightmares, all of which are present in this patient. A diagnosis of PTSD is made if these symptoms last > 1 month and impair social and/or occupational functioning as seen in this woman, who has stopped working and withdrawn from her friends and family.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Acute stress disorder** - Acute stress disorder can occur in response to traumatic events and is characterized by symptoms very similar to those present in this patient. However, acute stress disorder is diagnosed when the duration of symptoms is 3 days to 1 month following the traumatic event; this patient has been experiencing symptoms for 4 months.

**B - Major depressive disorder** - Major depressive disorder can occur following traumatic events and present with impaired functioning in important areas of life (e.g., work). However, diagnosis of this condition requires at least 5 of 9 A criteria (SIGECAPS), of which this patient only has 2 (sleep disturbances and guilt).

**D - Major depressive disorder with peripartum onset** - Major depressive disorder with peripartum onset can occur following miscarriage and intrauterine fetal demise and present with impaired functioning in important areas of life (e.g., work). However, diagnosis of this condition requires at least 5 of 9 A criteria (SIGECAPS), of which this patient only has 2 (sleep disturbances and guilt).

**E - Normal grief** - Normal grief can manifest with sleep disturbances and feelings of guilt following the loss of a loved one as seen in this patient who has lost her child. However, normal grief does not normally impair daily functioning. This patient's inability to work, avoidance of driving, and social withdrawal all suggest a pathological condition. Furthermore, flashbacks are not a feature of normal grief.

**F - Adjustment disorder** - Adjustment disorder can occur in response to a traumatic event and manifest with sleep disturbances and impaired functioning as seen in this patient. However, this condition is a diagnosis of exclusion; this patient's symptoms are better explained by another psychological disorder.

