### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Start raltegravir, tenofovir, and emtricitabine** - The combination of raltegravir (or dolutegravir), tenofovir, and emtricitabine is the preferred three-drug regimen for HIV post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) following high-risk occupational exposure. The overall risk of transmission is very low but depends on multiple factors, including the type of exposure, the viral load of the source patient, and, in the case of a needle-stick injury, the type of needle involved. While the HIV status of the source patient is unknown, he has multiple risk factors for HIV infection (IV drug user, sexually active), and PEP should be offered as soon as possible, ideally within a few hours but at least within 72 hours.

Other steps that should be taken immediately after occupational exposure include testing the source person for HCV (HCV Ab or HCV RNA), HBV (HBV surface Ag), and HIV (HIV Ag/Ab or HIV Ab, rapid test preferred). Nucleic acid amplification testing (e.g., viral load testing) should not be performed as an initial screening test for HIV because it has a higher rate of false positives than antibody-based tests, and, furthermore, an undetectable HIV viral load in the source patient or the exposed patient does not rule out HIV transmission.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Start zidovudine** - Zidovudine was one of the first antiretrovirals used to treat HIV and is still occasionally used to prevent vertical transmission of HIV. Zidovudine is not recommended for the treatment of occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens.

**C - Start tenofovir and emtricitabine** - The combination of tenofovir and emtricitabine is recommended for HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) to prevent HIV transmission in patients who are HIV-negative but are at risk of HIV infection (e.g., individuals with a serodiscordant sexual partner or those engaging in high-risk sexual activity). This patient has had a recent occupational exposure, however, meaning a different step is indicated.

**D - Provide reassurance** - Providing reassurance would be indicated if there were no true exposure identified, e.g., if the source patient's blood came into contact with skin that was intact or the exposure involved a noninfectious bodily fluid (e.g., feces, saliva, vomit). However, blood coming into contact with the eye is considered a high-risk exposure and this patient is at risk of contracting a bloodborne pathogen; reassurance would be insufficient.

**E - Start sofosbuvir and velpatasvir** - Sofosbuvir and velpatasvir are used for the treatment of hepatitis C. Currently, there is no post-exposure prophylaxis regimen available for patients at risk of HCV transmission. Recommendations for post-exposure HCV testing differ, but treatment is only recommended for documented infection.

**F - Administer hepatitis B immune globulin and vaccine** - Hepatitis B immune globulin and vaccine should be administered in cases of occupational exposure when the HBV vaccination status of the health care worker is incomplete or unknown. This woman's vaccinations are up-to-date and, as a healthcare worker, this would include complete HBV vaccination. No further action is required to prevent hepatitis B infection.

