### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Decline in CD4+ T-cells** - Oral thrush is caused by Candida albicans infection. The risk of mucocutaneous candidiasis is increased in patients with T-cell deficiency, which can occur in conditions such as HIV infection (↓ CD4+ T-cell count), severe combined immunodeficiency, and DiGeorge syndrome. Other risk factors for mucocutaneous candidiasis are uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, inhalation of corticosteroids, antibiotic use, and neonatal age group (Candida infection acquired during vaginal delivery). Mild oral thrush can be treated topically with nystatin (“swish and swallow”). The odynophagia seen in this patient could suggest involvement of the esophagus (candidal esophagitis). Severe thrush or candidal esophagitis will require systemic therapy with fluconazole or echinocandins.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Inhalation of salbutamol** - Inhalation of corticosteroids (e.g., fluticasone in asthmatic patients) is a risk factor for the lesions seen here. Inhalation of salbutamol, a beta-2 agonist, is not a risk factor.

**C - Missed childhood vaccination** - Missed childhood vaccination is a risk factor for measles, which would cause white lesions in the oral cavity called Koplik spots and possibly odynophagia in the prodromal phase. However, Koplik spots appear as pinhead-sized lesion on an erythematous base, unlike the patches seen in this patient, and they cannot be scraped off. Moreover, the prodromal phase would only last a few days before resulting in a maculopapular exanthem (unlike this patient with odynophagia for several weeks).

Image File: 771-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_54576145027d5.jpg

**D - Chronic nicotine abuse** - Chronic nicotine abuse (e.g., smoking, tobacco chewing) can cause white patches in the oral mucosa (leukoplakia) due to carcinoma in situ. However, these patches cannot be scraped off, typically occur on the buccal mucosa, gingiva, lower lip, or floor of the mouth (unlike the predominantly palatal lesions in this patient), and are usually not associated with odynophagia.

Image File: 771-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d947bae26.jpg

**E - Epstein-Barr virus infection** - EBV can cause white patches in the oral mucosa (oral hairy leukoplakia) in immunocompromised patients. But these patches cannot be scraped off, typically occur on the sides of the tongue (unlike the predominantly palatal lesions in this patient), and are usually not associated with odynophagia. EBV can also cause acute tonsillitis (infectious mononucleosis), which would present with odynophagia and possibly white patches (exudates) that can be scraped off. However, the location of the patches on the palate and uvula instead of the tonsils, and the absence of other features of acute tonsillitis or infectious mononucleosis (e.g., fever, enlarged red tonsils, cervical lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly) indicate a different diagnosis.

Image File: 771-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_54808bffa55e6.jpg

**F - Group A streptococcus infection** - Group A streptococcus can cause acute tonsillitis, which would present with odynophagia and possibly white patches (exudates) that can be scraped off. However, the location of the patches on the palate and uvula instead of the tonsils, and the absence of features of tonsillitis (e.g., fever, enlarged inflamed tonsils, tender cervical lymphadenopathy) indicate a different diagnosis.

Image File: 771-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_508c11f52ef37.jpg

