### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Prescribe epinephrine autoinjector** - Epinephrine is the primary treatment for anaphylaxis, and a patient with a history of a type I hypersensitivity reaction should be prescribed an epinephrine autoinjector in case of repeat exposure to the allergen. Although the patient's reaction was relatively mild, a subsequent exposure could result in a more systemic reaction or life-threatening anaphylaxis as the severity of previous allergic reactions does not predict the severity of future reactions. The patient should also be referred to an allergist.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Recommend avoidance of peanuts** - Although it might be appropriate for the patient to avoid peanuts, this recommendation is not sufficient given the possibility of a life-threatening reaction to subsequent exposure to the allergen. In addition, the exact nature of the allergen is unknown: peanuts could be the culprit, but another ingredient in the trail mix could have caused the type I hypersensitivity reaction.

**B - Perform patch test** - The patch test is the gold standard for diagnosis of contact dermatitis, a type 4 hypersensitivity reaction. In a patch test, small amounts of potential contact allergens are applied to a patient's back for 48–72 hours to induce a local type 4 hypersensitivity reaction and identify the irritant. This patient's presentation is more consistent with a type 1 hypersensitivity reaction (not a type 4 hypersensitivity reaction), so a patch test would not be appropriate.

**D - Increase dosage of inhaled albuterol** - Despite a history of asthma, this patient has no signs or symptoms of bronchospasm associated with his presentation, so there is no need to change his asthma medication.

**E - Advise to carry oral cetirizine at all times** - Although the patient responded well to an antihistamine, cetirizine's onset of action is around 20 minutes, which would be too long in the case of a more severe reaction in the future.

**F - Administer oral prednisone** - Steroids, such as oral prednisone, may be used as adjunctive treatment for patients who do not respond completely to an antihistamine. This patient responds well to intravenous diphenhydramine and does not need steroids.

