### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Oral cetirizine** - The patient's localized urticaria is consistent with a mild to moderate type 1 hypersensitivity reaction to latex, which means that a second-generation antihistamine such as cetirizine is indicated. Type 1 hypersensitivity reactions are caused by preformed IgE antibodies (from prior sensitization), which then activate rapid histamine release from mast cells upon re-exposure to the antigen. Cetirizine competes with histamine at the H1 receptor to stabilize mast cells and is less sedating than first-generation antihistamines (e.g., diphenhydramine, chlorpheniramine, hydroxyzine). This patient should also be advised to avoid contact with latex in the future.

Image File: 775-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59870355e786e.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous acyclovir** - Intravenous acyclovir is used to treat certain viral infections, e.g., herpes simplex virus infection. While HSV infection should be considered as a differential diagnosis in a sexually active patient presenting with a genital rash, the timing and appearance of his rash are not consistent with this diagnosis (HSV typically appears 2–7 days after exposure and is characterized by vesicles and ulcerations). Furthermore, oral acyclovir is preferred over IV administration for genital HSV infection.

**B - Topical permethrin** - Topical permethrin is used for the treatment of lice and scabies. This patient's friend has symptoms consistent with scabies, and while scabies is spread through close contact, the typical rash is characterized by elongated papules, red burrows, and scattered vesicles. This patient's rash is consistent with urticaria, against which permethrin is not effective.

Image File: 775-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91135fde.jpg

**C - Oral cromolyn sodium** - Cromolyn sodium is a mast cell stabilizer most commonly administered as an inhaled solution for the treatment of asthma. It can also be given as an oral solution for patients with mastocytosis. While this patient's urticaria is mediated by mast cell release of histamine, cromolyn sodium is not recommended for the treatment of hypersensitivity reactions.

**D - Subcutaneous epinephrine** - Subcutaneous epinephrine is used for the treatment of anaphylaxis, a severe form of type 1 hypersensitivity reaction. While urticaria is a common feature in anaphylaxis, this patient has no other symptoms to suggest it (e.g., bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, abdominal pain, hypotension). A different therapy would be more appropriate for a mild to moderate localized reaction.

**E - Oral famotidine** - Famotidine is an H2 receptor blocker commonly used for the treatment of GERD and can also be used in the treatment of anaphylaxis. While acute-onset urticaria after exposure to a potential allergen should raise concern for anaphylaxis, this patient has no other symptoms to suggest anaphylaxis (e.g., bronchospasm, laryngeal edema, abdominal pain, hypotension) or GERD. A different therapy would be more appropriate.

**F - Intravenous prednisone** - Prednisone is a potent anti-inflammatory that has many uses, including the treatment of certain hypersensitivity reactions. Because glucocorticoids can cause serious systemic side effects, they are typically reserved for moderate to severe type 1 hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., with angioedema or pronounced urticaria). If glucocorticoids are used for treatment of urticaria, oral rather than intravenous administration is preferred. This patient has a mild to moderate localized hypersensitivity reaction, making another treatment more appropriate.

Image File: 775-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_535fb7e03b91f.jpg

