### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Hepatitis C serology** - About 90% of cases of mixed cryoglobulinemia are associated with hepatitis C infection. It is thought that the immune reaction to HCV causes the formation of immune complexes with HCV antigen, which subsequently trigger complement activation and inflammation of blood vessels, resulting in palpable purpura (due to cryoglobulinemic vasculitis). Immune-complex mediated damage is also responsible for polyarthralgia. Since mixed cryoglobulinemia can be the initial manifestation of an otherwise asymptomatic HCV infection, it is important to test all patients with mixed cryoglobulinemia for hepatitis C to ensure that early therapy can be initiated.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Rapid plasma reagin test** - The rapid plasma reagin (RPR) test is a screening test for syphilis. Secondary syphilis manifests with fatigue, nonpruritic skin lesions over the trunk and extremities, polyarthralgia, and a false positive RF. However, secondary syphilis is associated with other symptoms such as fever and generalized lymphadenopathy, and the skin lesions would appear as reddish-brown papules rather than the purpura seen in this patient. Also, this patient does not have a past history of painless, non-healing ulcer on his genitalia (primary chancre) to suggest that this patient is at risk for developing secondary syphilis.

**B - PCR for N. gonorrhea** - Disseminated gonococcal infection can cause polyarthralgia and/or skin lesions over the trunk and extremities. However, the skin lesions would be maculopapular, vesicular, and/or pustular with a necrotic or hemorrhagic center rather than the palpable purpura seen in this patient. Moreover, this patient does not have a history of unprotected sex or a past history of urethritis to suggest gonococcal infection.

**C - Bone marrow biopsy** - In a patient with cryoglobulinemia, a bone marrow biopsy is performed if the suspected underlying cause is chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). However, CLL typically results in type 1 cryoglobulinemia, which usually manifests with monoclonal IgM bands on serum protein electrophoresis and features of a hyperviscosity syndrome (e.g., arterial thrombosis, Raynaud phenomenon, headache, epistaxis) rather than arthralgia and palpable purpura. In addition, this patient does not have lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, anemia, thrombocytopenia, and/or leukocytosis characteristic of CLL. Moreover, CLL primarily occurs in older patients (median age at the time of diagnosis is 70–72 years).

**E - Skin biopsy** - In a patient with palpable purpura, a skin biopsy would be performed to identify the cause of small vessel vasculitis if the diagnosis is not evident from history, physical examination, and/or laboratory tests. In this patient, the cause of palpable purpura is evidently cryoglobulinemic vasculitis, a locally invasive procedure such as skin biopsy is therefore not necessary.

**F - pANCA assay** - A pANCA assay can be used to diagnose small vessel vasculitides such as microscopic polyangiitis and Churg-Strauss syndrome, both of which can present with palpable purpura and arthralgia. However, patients with microscopic polyangiitis would have evidence of glomerulonephritis on urinalysis (e.g., proteinuria, hematuria), and patients with Churg-Strauss syndrome would typically have a history of recurrent asthma attacks.

**G - Bence Jones protein test** - In a patient with cryoglobulinemia, urinalysis for Bence Jones proteins would be performed if the underlying cause of cryoglobulinemia was suspected to be multiple myeloma or Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, both of which would result in increased gamma globulin on serum protein electrophoresis. However, monoclonal IgM (in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia) or monoclonal IgG (in multiple myeloma) would be seen in cryoglobulinemia, not polyclonal bands. Moreover, both of these conditions result in type 1 cryoglobulinemia, which usually presents with features of hyperviscosity syndrome (e.g., arterial thrombosis, Raynaud's phenomenon) instead of arthralgia and palpable purpura.

