### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Recipient T-cells in the graft** - Abdominal pain, hypertension, generalized fatigue, and an increase in creatinine within 6 months of renal transplantation are concerning for acute rejection of the renal allograft. The two mechanisms for acute allograft rejection are acute cellular rejection by host T-lymphocytes and acute humoral rejection by circulating antibodies. The absence of C4d staining (a marker of antibody-mediated damage) and the presence of inflammatory infiltrate within the wall of tubules (tubulitis) indicate that the most likely mechanism for graft rejection in this patient is acute cellular rejection.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Drug-induced nephrotoxicity** - Calcineurin inhibitors such as cyclosporine cause reversible renal vasoconstriction, which would result in increased serum creatinine (due to a decrease in GFR caused by afferent arteriole constriction) and hypertension (due to activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system). However, the BUN:creatinine ratio would usually be > 20:1 in conditions associated with renal hypoperfusion. Also, the renal biopsy would show vacuoles within the tubular cells rather than cellular infiltrate within the tubular epithelium (tubulitis).

**C - Preformed anti-HLA antibodies** - Preformed antibodies against class I HLA of the graft is responsible for hyperacute rejection of the renal allograft, which would result in features of acute renal failure (e.g., decreased urine output, increased creatinine) as well as tubulitis on renal biopsy. However, patients with pre-formed antibodies would usually have a history of blood transfusion in the past or a failed organ transplantation, and the onset of acute renal failure in a case of hyperacute renal graft rejection would always occur within 48 hours of transplantation. The renal biopsy would also have shown widespread infarction, necrosis, and thrombosis as well as C4d along the glomerular and peritubular capillaries.

**D - Donor T-cells in the graft** - Damage to the recipient's tissue by donor T-cells (graft-versus-host disease) can occur following allogenous stem cell transplantation; it is not typically seen with solid organ transplantation because most solid organ grafts (e.g., kidney, heart) do not contain much lymphoid tissue. Moreover, graft-versus-host disease typically presents with gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g, abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhea), hepatic dysfunction, and skin lesions, not acute renal failure.

**E - Obstructed ureterovesical anastomosis** - Obstruction of the ureterovesical anastomosis by a hematocele or lymphocele can cause features of acute renal failure (increased creatinine, oliguria/anuria) and abdominal discomfort within the first few weeks of renal transplant surgery. However, evidence of tubulitis on renal biopsy suggests a different cause for renal failure.

**F - Fibrosis of the glomerular vessels** - Fibrosis of the tunica intima of glomerular vessels is a pathological finding seen in chronic renal allograft rejection, which can result in renal failure and hypertension. However, chronic rejection of the renal allograft typically presents > 6 months after the transplantation with gradually increasing creatinine and proteinuria, unlike this patient who develops acute renal failure one week after the transplantation.

**G - Polyomavirus-associated nephropathy** - Reactivation of a BK polyomavirus infection by immunosuppressant therapy can cause polyomavirus-associated nephropathy, which would present with renal dysfunction as well as tubulitis on a renal biopsy. However, the renal dysfunction would be slowly progressive, and it usually occurs 3–4 months after transplantation. Also, the biopsy would show intranuclear inclusion bodies.

**H - Newly formed anti-HLA antibodies** - Denovo synthesis of antibodies by B-cells against HLA antigens can result in acute humoral rejection of the renal allograft, which would present with abdominal pain, hypertension, generalized fatigue, and an increase in creatinine within 6 months of renal transplantation. However, an inflammatory infiltrate in the glomerular endothelium as well as C4d staining of the glomerular and peritubular capillaries would be present on renal biopsy.

