### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Varicella vaccine** - The vaccine against varicella zoster virus is a live attenuated vaccine. It is recommended in HIV patients with a CD4 count > 200/mm3. However, a CD4 count of 180/mm3, as seen in this patient, is a contraindication for live vaccines (such as varicella, yellow fever, mumps, measles, and rubella) because of the risk of vaccine-related reactivation of the attenuated virus.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pertussis vaccine** - The vaccine against Bordetella pertussis is an inactivated vaccine. A CD4 count < 200/mm3 is not a contraindication for inactivated vaccines.

**B - Human papillomavirus vaccine** - The vaccine against Human papillomavirus (HPV) is an inactivated vaccine. One of the main benefits of vaccination is protection against HPV-associated cervical cancer. HPV immunization is approved for individuals 11–26 years of age. Patients with HIV should receive HPV immunization during this same interval. A CD4 count < 200/mm3 is not a contraindication for inactivated vaccines.

**C - Haemophilus influenzae type B vaccine** - The vaccine against Haemophilus influenzae (Hib vaccine) is an inactivated vaccine that prevents invasive infection with H. influenzae type b (Hib). A CD4 count < 200/mm3 is not a contraindication for inactivated vaccines.

**D - Hepatitis B vaccine** - The vaccine against Hepatitis B virus is an inactivated vaccine. A CD4 count < 200/mm3 is not a contraindication for inactivated vaccines. In fact, it is strongly recommended that patients with HIV receive the hepatitis B vaccination because of the elevated risk of chronic infection in this patient group.

**E - Tetanus vaccine** - The vaccine against Clostridium tetani is a toxoid vaccine (inactivated vaccine). A CD4 count < 200/mm3 is not a contraindication for toxoid-based immunization.

