### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Initiate a discussion about the patient's recent enlistment to the military** - Initiating a discussion about his recent enlistment to the military in a calm, distant yet empathetic manner gives the patient the opportunity to be honest without becoming uncomfortable and possibly compromising the patient-physician relationship. Malingering individuals are often noncompliant and insist on undergoing extensive medical evaluation. Unnecessary referrals should be avoided because they perpetuate malingering, which is a behavior and not a psychiatric disorder.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Schedule regular follow-up meetings** - Meeting on a regular basis in order to build a collaborative patient-physician relationship is important for patients with somatic symptom disorder, a mental disorder in which the patient has no control over the symptoms. This patient is malingering, which is not a psychiatric diagnosis, but rather an intentional behavior motivated by an external reward (e.g., avoiding work, obtaining insurance money). It would be inappropriate to schedule follow-up meetings without addressing his malingering behavior.

**C - Provide the patient with an exemption letter for military service** - Acknowledging the patient's vision loss and writing an exemption letter for military training would reward and perpetuate his malingering behavior.

**D - Refer the patient to an ophthalmologist for further evaluation** - Acknowledging the patient's vision loss and referring him to an ophthalmologist would be indicated if a medical condition of the visual pathway was suspected. No medical conditions of the visual pathway are suspected in this patient, so this action would not be appropriate.

**E - Educate the patient about his diagnosis** - Patient education is the first-line treatment for conversion disorder, a mental disorder that can manifest with vision loss without evidence of a defective visual pathway. This patient is most likely malingering, which is not a psychiatric diagnosis but rather an intentional behavior motivated by an external reward (e.g., avoiding work, obtaining insurance money), so patient education would not be appropriate.

