### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Toxoplasmosis** - TMP-SMX can be used as a prophylactic agent for both PCP and toxoplasmosis in patients with HIV. TMP-SMX is recommended for PCP prophylaxis in patients with a CD4 count < 200/mm3 and for toxoplasmosis prophylaxis in patients with a CD4 count < 100/mm3.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Candidiasis** - TMP-SMX does not prevent candidiasis. Studies have shown that fluconazole, which is used to treat candidiasis, can reduce the incidence of oropharyngeal, esophageal, and vulvovaginal candidiasis in patients with HIV. However, mucosal candidiasis has a very low morbidity and mortality and can be effectively treated with acute therapy with fluconazole. Moreover, chronic antifungal therapy can lead to the emergence of drug-resistant Candida, and fluconazole can cause significant drug interaction with antiretroviral medication due to inhibition of CYP450 enzymes. Therefore, current guidelines do not recommend routine prophylaxis against candidiasis in patients with HIV infection unless the patient has had frequent or severe recurrent candidiasis.

**B - Varicella** - HIV-infected patients are at greater risk of developing disseminated varicella and severe herpes zoster from the varicella-zoster virus (VZV) than immunocompetent patients. TMP-SMX, however, does not prevent varicella or reduce the severity of herpes zoster. Antivirals such as valacyclovir, famciclovir, or acyclovir would be used to treat VZV infection in patients with HIV, but current guidelines do not recommend the use of these antivirals for the prevention of varicella or herpes zoster. Instead, treating the underlying HIV infection with antiretroviral therapy and postexposure prophylaxis with anti-VZV immunoglobulin in seronegative individuals are the most effective strategies for the prevention of VZV disease.

**D - Cryptosporidiosis** - Cryptosporidiosis can cause chronic and life-threatening diarrhea in patients with HIV infection, particularly in patients with a CD4 count < 200/mm3. TMP-SMX, however, does not prevent cryptosporidiosis. Antibiotics such as clarithromycin and rifabutin have been found to protect individuals against cryptosporidiosis in some studies. However, given the lack of adequate clinical data, current guidelines do not recommend primary prophylaxis against this infection. Instead, measures to prevent exposure to Cryptosporidium parvum (e.g., handwashing) and treatment of the underlying HIV infection with antiretroviral therapy are the most effective strategies for preventing cryptosporidiosis in patients with HIV.

**E - Cryptococcosis** - Infection with Cryptococcus neoformans (cryptococcosis) can cause meningoencephalitis in HIV-positive patients, particularly in patients with a CD4 count < 100/mm3. TMP-SMX, however, does not prevent cryptococcosis. Fluconazole or itraconazole can reduce the incidence of cryptococcosis in patients with HIV, but routine prophylaxis against cryptococcal infection is not recommended by current guidelines because it has not been shown to improve survival.

**F - Mycobacterium avium complex infection** - Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) can cause night sweats, fever, abdominal pain, and diarrhea in HIV-positive patients, particularly those with a CD4 count < 50/mm3. MAC infection can be prevented with macrolide antibiotics (e.g., azithromycin, clarithromycin), but TMP-SMX does not prevent MAC infection.

**G - Cytomegalovirus end-organ disease** - Cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation can cause retinitis, severe GI tract inflammation (e.g., esophagitis, colitis), pneumonitis, and encephalitis in patients with HIV, particularly those with a CD4 count < 50/mm3.TMP-SMX, however, does not prevent CMV infection or CMV reactivation. Antivirals such as valganciclovir are used to treat CMV end-organ disease, but studies have not shown any benefit from preventive therapy with these antivirals in patients with HIV infection. Current guidelines thus recommend regular screening for CMV reactivation and treatment of the underlying HIV infection with antiretroviral therapy as the most effective strategies for preventing CMV end-organ disease.

