### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Erythromycin** - Erythromycin is the first-line drug for the treatment of bacillary angiomatosis. Patients should generally take oral erythromycin for 3 months or until the IgG titer has significantly declined (titer < 1:64). If this does not occur or the disease relapses, treatment should be continued until the patient regains immunocompetence. Alternatively, oral doxycycline can be administered for a similar duration of time.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pyrimethamine and sulfadiazine** - Combination therapy with pyrimethamine and sulfadiazine for a minimum of 4–6 weeks is the treatment of choice for toxoplasmosis. Leucovorin (folinic acid) is also administered to alleviate the myelotoxic side effects of pyrimethamine. Although toxoplasmosis is a common infection in patients with HIV infection (particularly with a CD4+ T-lymphocyte count < 100 cells/μL), it generally causes encephalitis. Skin lesions would not occur in association with toxoplasmosis.

Image File: 783-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_556ef60305218.jpg

**B - Vinblastine** - Intralesional administration of vinblastine is a first-line treatment option for Kaposi sarcoma, an important differential diagnosis to consider in patients with HIV who have skin lesions and concurrent abdominal symptoms. Lesions in Kaposi sarcoma and bacillary angiomatosis can be very similar in appearance, making it difficult to differentiate them. However, biopsy of a Kaposi sarcoma lesion would show spindle shaped cells, leukocyte infiltration, and angiogenesis, and Warthin-Starry stain would be negative, making this diagnosis unlikely.

Image File: 783-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_548974570190b.jpg

**C - Azithromycin and ethambutol** - Combination therapy with azithromycin and ethambutol is the treatment of choice for Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) infections, which are common in patients with advanced immunocompromise due to HIV infection (usually only occurs if CD4+T-lymphocyte count < 50/μl). Although MAC infection could explain this patient's constitutional symptoms and gastrointestinal symptoms, it generally presents as a disseminated infection with respiratory involvement (cough) and generalized lymphadenopathy. Skin lesions would not be expected.

**D - Amphotericin B** - Amphotericin B is to treat systemic candidiasis, which should be considered in immunocompromised patients with symptoms of disseminated disease (e.g. gastrointestinal involvement, skin lesions, and constitutional symptoms). However, the appearance of the skin lesions and biopsy results are not consistent with this diagnosis. Although this patient likely has oral candidiasis, amphotericin B is not considered first line therapy.

**F - Trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole** - Trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) are used to treat pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP). It typically occurs in patients with HIV infection and a CD4+T-lymphocyte count < 200/μL. Although this patient's constitutional symptoms and significantly decreased CD4+T-lymphocyte count are consistent with PCP, signs of pneumonia (dyspnea, cough) would be expected. Skin lesions are not suggestive of PCP. TMP-SMX is not effective in the management of bacillary angiomatosis.

**G - Nitazoxanide** - Nitazoxanide is used in the treatment of cryptosporidiosis, which could be responsible for this patient's gastrointestinal symptoms, however, it usually also causes protracted diarrhea and does not explain this patient's skin lesions.

