### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Intramuscular epinephrine administration** - Intramuscular epinephrine is the first drug that should be given in anaphylaxis to prevent progression to respiratory and/or cardiovascular failure. Epinephrine has a near-immediate effect, and studies suggest that a delay in administering it is associated with increased mortality. Supplemental oxygen, IV fluid resuscitation, albuterol nebulizer, antihistamines, and methylprednisolone may be administered after epinephrine.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Intravenous methylprednisolone administration** - Glucocorticoids, like methylprednisolone, may be given as adjunctive or second-line therapy in the treatment of an acute anaphylactic reaction. They are thought to decrease the risk of biphasic or protracted anaphylactic reactions. Because this patient is acutely hypotensive and experiencing respiratory difficulty, her condition requires immediate correction with another life-saving pharmacotherapy. Glucocorticoids require much longer to take effect than the treatment-of-choice, which acts immediately. Therefore, methylprednisolone would not be the most appropriate first treatment in this patient's case.

**C - Nebulized albuterol administration** - Albuterol is a β2 agonist that can be administered for persistent bronchospasm after initial treatment of anaphylaxis. However, nebulized albuterol would not affect upper airway edema or extrapulmonary (shock) symptoms, which require immediate treatment.

**D - Endotracheal intubation** - Immediate endotracheal intubation is indicated for airway management in anaphylactic patients in respiratory arrest or with marked stridor. Additionally, early intubation is frequently considered in patients with significant tongue edema, oropharyngeal edema, or voice changes as they may lead to airway closure. Because this patient only has slightly labored breathing and mild swelling of her lips, immediate endotracheal intubation is not indicated.

**E - Intravenous diphenhydramine and ranitidine administration** - Antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine (H1 blocker) and ranitidine (H2 blocker), may be given as part of anaphylaxis treatment because they relieve cutaneous symptoms (e.g., itch and hives) but they do not treat life-threatening (e.g. respiratory and cardiovascular) symptoms. This patient is hypotensive and having respiratory difficulty, both of which require immediate treatment to prevent further deterioration.

