### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Perform serum HIV testing** - A history of nonspecific symptoms such as fever, fatigue, diarrhea, and myalgias, along with findings of generalized nontender lymphadenopathy, nonexudative tonsillitis, and oral mucosal ulcers in a patient with multiple sexual partners and inconsistent condom use suggests acute retroviral syndrome. The best initial test to diagnose HIV infection is an antigen/antibody combination test (screening test), which detects both HIV antigen (p24) and anti-HIV antibodies as early as 14 days after transmission. If the combination test is negative and acute HIV infection is strongly suspected, an HIV RNA (viral load) test may be performed because this test can detect an infection before seroconversion (5–10 days after transmission). In patients with a positive screening test, an HIV-1/HIV-2 antibody differentiation immunoassay is used to confirm the diagnosis. If the patient has a positive screening test but the confirmatory test is negative, a viral-load assay must be performed. Because patients with acute HIV infection have an elevated viral load, the probability of HIV transmission is increased. Patients should start antiretroviral therapy as soon as possible and be counseled on reducing the risk of HIV transmission.

Image File: 786-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ebd5ccb2ce66.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Perform colonoscopy with intestinal biopsies** - A colonoscopy with intestinal biopsies is used to confirm the diagnosis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), which can manifest with fever, fatigue, and nonbloody diarrhea. Moreover, IBD can be associated with aphthous stomatitis manifesting with oral mucosal ulcers. However, patients with IBD typically present with chronic abdominal pain and chronic diarrhea, which are not seen here. Additionally, IBD is not commonly associated with generalized lymphadenopathy and myalgias.

**C - Obtain a throat swab culture** - A throat swab culture is used to diagnose acute bacterial tonsillitis (most commonly caused by Streptococcus pyogenes). This condition manifests with sudden onset of fever, tonsillitis, and lymphadenopathy, all of which are seen here. However, patients with acute bacterial tonsillitis typically present with exudative tonsillitis and tender lymphadenopathy restricted to cervical lymph nodes whereas this patient's oral findings are nonexudative and his lymphadenopathy is generalized. Moreover, bacterial tonsillitis usually does not cause myalgia, diarrhea, or oral ulcerations.

**D - Perform heterophile agglutination test** - Heterophile agglutination test is used for patients with suspected infectious mononucleosis. This condition causes causes fever, fatigue, myalgias, tonsillitis, and generalized lymphadenopathy, all of which are seen here. However, tonsillitis in patients with mononucleosis is exudative and lymphadenopathy is usually tender. Additionally, diarrhea and oral ulcerations are not common. Finally, this patient is 35 years of age whereas patients with mononucleosis are usually younger (peak incidence: 15–24 years of age).

**E - Perform excisional lymph node biopsy** - Excisional lymph node biopsy is used to confirm the diagnosis of lymphoma, which can manifest with fever, fatigue, and nontender lymphadenopathy. While lymphadenopathy in Hodgkin lymphoma is usually localized, non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) can cause generalized lymphadenopathy, as seen in this patient. Furthermore, aggressive forms of NHL can have a very acute onset, which is seen here. However, diarrhea, oral mucosal ulcers, and myalgia are not common in patients with lymphoma. Night sweats and weight loss are constitutional symptoms expected in patients with lymphoma.

**F - Perform serum testing for Bartonella henselae antibodies** - Serum testing for Bartonella henselae antibodies is used to diagnose cat scratch disease. This disease can cause fever and lymphadenopathy, both of which are seen in this patient, who recently adopted a cat. However, lymphadenopathy in cat scratch disease is usually tender and localized near the site of inoculation, not generalized and nontender as in this patient. Moreover, B. henselae infection does not cause nonexudative tonsillitis, oral ulcerations, or diarrhea.

