### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Bronchoalveolar lavage** - The confirmatory diagnostic test for Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia is silver staining of a bronchoalveolar lavage sample, which enables visualization of P. jirovecii cysts. Although induced sputum samples are considered ideal for diagnosis, they cannot be obtained in a 3-month-old patient. P. jirovecii cysts appear disc-shaped, with central spores (resembling crushed ping-pong balls with dots at the center). This infant has received immunosuppressive treatment with steroids for disseminated hemangiomas, which increases the risk for opportunistic infections, such as PCP. In addition, her elevated beta-D-glucan levels support this diagnosis and warrant initiation of empirical treatment with high-dose trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole.

Image File: 787-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a623a474ce1e.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Urine antigen test** - Urine antigen testing is a rapid diagnostic test available for identifying infection with Legionella pneumophilia and Streptococcus pneumoniae. Both pathogens cause pneumonia, which may present with dyspnea, dry cough, fine crackles and rhonchi, as seen in this patient. Although her immunocompromised status increases the risk of infection with any pathogen, bacterial pneumonia would not explain elevated serum beta-D-glucan levels. Moreover, L. pneumophilia is rare at this patient's age and typically presents with concomitant diarrhea. Although S. pneumoniae is a common cause of pneumonia in infants, it usually causes lobar, not interstitial infiltrates.

**C - DNA test for CFTR mutation** - DNA testing for CFTR mutation is a second-line diagnostic test for cystic fibrosis (CF). While CF can manifest with cough and dyspnea, it is typically associated with other clinical features, such as failure to thrive, meconium ileus, diarrhea, steatorrhea, and abdominal distension. CF is not associated with elevated beta-D-glucan levels. In addition, neonatal screening for CF at birth using either a serum immunoreactive trypsinogen assay or a DNA test for CFTR mutations is routine in the US.

**D - CT scan of the chest** - A high-resolution CT scan of the chest may be indicated in patients in which there is a high index of suspicion for PCP, but inconclusive findings on chest x-ray. This infant presents with classic clinical features and x-ray findings of PCP, obviating the need for additional imaging. Furthermore, CT scans are associated with higher doses of radiation than x-rays and should be avoided in cases in which an x-ray would suffice.

**E - Tuberculin skin test** - A tuberculin skin test is most commonly used to assess for latent tuberculosis, although it may be positive in patients with active infections. This infant's immunocompromised status due to prolonged treatment with corticosteroids increases her risk of tuberculosis infection. Active pulmonary tuberculosis could explain her persistent cough and dyspnea. However, chest x-ray findings in patients with tuberculosis usually show lymphadenopathy, parenchymal consolidation, and/or pleural effusion rather than diffuse chest infiltrates, except in the case of miliary tuberculosis. Furthermore, this patient has no history of travel to endemic areas or contact with adults with known tuberculosis, the primary risk factors in pediatric cases. Finally, tuberculosis is not associated with elevated beta-D-glucan levels.

**F - Spirometry** - Spirometry can be used to evaluate obstructive lung disease or restrictive lung disease, but it is not feasible in a 3-month-old infant. If spirometry were possible, it would demonstrate a restrictive pattern in PCP pneumonia, but this would not be a confirmatory test.

