### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Polymerase chain reaction for viral genes** - This 3-month-old girl's presentation is concerning for vertical transmission of HIV. She was delivered vaginally (highest risk of transmission) at home, her mother did not receive any prenatal care, and she is breastfed. HIV diagnosis in children < 18 months is confirmed via PCR, not ELISA as the mother's IgG antibodies are able to cross the placenta and would not provide an accurate diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Karyotyping of infant's chromosomes** - Karyotyping can confirm the diagnosis of several genetic disorders such as Down syndrome. Patients with Down syndrome have a higher susceptibility to respiratory infections, but cervical and inguinal lymphadenopathy, white plaque on the tongue, and chronic diarrhea indicate a more generalized immunodeficiency. In addition, this patient lacks characteristic physical findings of Down syndrome such as micrognathia, flat nasal bridge, hypertelorism, and epicanthal folds.

**B - Dihydrorhodamine test** - The dihydrorhodamine test is positive in patients with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD). CGD is most often caused by an X-linked recessive defect and commonly presents with dermatitis, failure to thrive, and diarrhea in the first year of life. However, this patient does not have dermatitis and is female, which makes this disorder very unlikely.

**C - DNA test for CFTR mutation** - DNA testing for CFTR mutation is used for diagnosis of cystic fibrosis. Although cystic fibrosis patients also have failure to thrive and pulmonary infections, they additionally often develop meconium ileus, and foul-smelling diarrhea due to fat malabsorption, in contrast to this patient's watery diarrhea. Moreover, cystic fibrosis alone would not explain this patient's inguinal and cervical lymphadenopathy and thrush.

**D - Fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption test** - Fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption test is used for the diagnosis of congenital syphilis. Although this patient's mother did not have any prenatal care, and syphilis is a possible congenital infection (TORCH), it typically presents with nasal discharge, hepatomegaly, splenomegaly, skeletal abnormalities, and skin manifestations, none of which are present in this patient.

**E - Flow cytometry of B lymphocytes** - Flow cytometry of B lymphocytes is used for diagnosing immunodeficiencies due to B-cell abnormalities such as Bruton agammaglobulinemia. Bruton agammaglobulinemia is an X-linked recessive disease that only appears in boys and usually manifests 3–6 months after birth with recurrent severe pneumonia and otitis media. Although this infant possibly has pneumonia, her sex essentially rules out this diagnosis.

**G - T-cell receptor excision circle analysis** - Analysis of T-cell receptor excision circles is used for the diagnosis of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID). Although SCID typically present with respiratory infections, chronic diarrhea, thrush, and failure to thrive as seen in this patient, it is most often inherited in an X-linked pattern and thus unlikely in a female patient. In addition, lymph nodes and tonsils may be absent in SCID, unlike the lymphadenopathy seen in this girl.

