### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Schizotypal personality disorder** - Schizotypal personality disorder is a cluster A personality disorder. It usually presents with odd and eccentric behavior and appearance. Patients also tend to have odd beliefs or magical thinking that are inconsistent with cultural norms. Moreover, excessive social anxiety, odd speech, inappropriate affect, and lack of close friends are usually also seen.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Schizoid personality disorder** - Like this young man, patients with schizoid personality disorder present with eccentric behavior and difficulty developing meaningful social relationships. However, a key component of schizoid personality disorder is a pervasive pattern of social withdrawal and limited range of emotional expression. Patients are content with social isolation and do not seek relationships. Although this patient does not have friends and spends most of his time alone, patients with schizoid personality disorder would be more indifferent about social interactions than anxious. Furthermore, this patient's interest in paranormal phenomena, magical thinking, and eccentric clothing would not be explained by this diagnosis.

**B - Social anxiety disorder** - Like this young man, patients with social anxiety disorder have anxiety in social situations. However, their anxiety is driven by an intense fear of embarrassment in social situations. Furthermore, this patient's odd beliefs, magical thinking, and unusual clothing could not be explained by this disorder.

**C - Avoidant personality disorder** - Patients with avoidant personality disorder are also uncomfortable around other people and avoid social settings. Their discomfort is driven by a feeling of inadequacy and/or an intense fear of rejection or embarrassment, and they tend to desire interpersonal relationships even if they are anxious about interacting with others. However, this patient's social withdrawal appears voluntary and his patient's odd beliefs and clothing choices would not be explained by this diagnosis.

**E - Autism spectrum disorder** - Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is usually diagnosed in young children who present with persistent impairment in communication and social interaction as well as restricted, stereotyped patterns of behavior, interests, and activities. Although this young man is uncomfortable around other people, his age and the absence of additional symptoms of ASD, including impaired language skills or repetitive movements and behavior, makes the diagnosis unlikely. The diagnosis of ASD would also not explain this patient's preoccupation with paranormal phenomena.

**F - Paranoid personality disorder** - Like this young man, patients with paranoid personality disorder are generally emotionally isolated and have eccentric behavior. However, a key component of paranoid personality disorder is suspicion of and distrust toward others due to the belief that others have malicious intentions. Although this patient is uncomfortable around other people, he is not described as being suspicious of them. Furthermore, paranoid personality disorder is not typically associated with odd and magical thinking.

**G - Schizophrenia** - Patients with schizophrenia present with chronic and recurrent psychosis for more than 6 months. They tend to initially present with a prodrome of negative symptoms characterized by social withdrawal, which is then followed by positive psychotic symptoms (i.e., hallucinations, delusions, and bizarre behaviors). Although this patient prefers to be alone and has odd beliefs, he does not meet the criteria for the diagnosis of schizophrenia, as he has no clear delusions or hallucinations and no disorganized speech.

