### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Infection with herpes simplex virus** - Herpes simplex virus (HSV) esophagitis can occur in patients with HIV and CD4 counts < 100/mm3 and is considered an AIDS-defining condition. Endoscopic evaluation of HSV esophagitis typically shows vesicles and multiple small, superficial, round/ovoid ulcers in the mid esophagus that may coalesce to form diffuse superficial ulcers. Biopsy with viral culture or PCR can confirm the diagnosis, and treatment consists of acyclovir. In this case, the patient was appropriately treated with empiric fluconazole (esophageal candidiasis is much more common than HSV esophagitis). However, the lack of clinical response prompted further investigation.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Adverse effect of medication** - Drug-induced esophagitis (also referred to as pill esophagitis) is caused by prolonged contact with caustic medications, leading to esophageal mucosal irritation, erosion, and ulceration. Commonly implicated medications include antibiotics (tetracycline, doxycycline, clindamycin), NSAIDs, bisphosphonates, and iron pills. None of this patient's current medications are known to cause esophagitis. EGD findings in a patient with pill esophagitis typically demonstrate punched-out mucosa with inflammation of the surrounding mucosa.

**C - Transient lower esophageal sphincter relaxation** - Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is caused by transient lower esophageal sphincter relaxation and reflux of stomach contents into the esophagus. Symptoms are usually chronic and episodic in nature and can include heartburn, regurgitation sensation, chronic cough, and retrosternal chest pain. Dysphagia and odynophagia are not typical and are considered red flag symptoms which should prompt further evaluation (usually with EGD). This patient's EGD findings are not typical for GERD and his HIV-positive status makes a different etiology more likely.

**D - Allergic inflammation of the esophagus** - Eosinophilic esophagitis is a poorly understood type of esophagitis that likely occurs in response to allergens and is mediated by eosinophil release. Diagnosis consists of identification of mucosal eosinophilia on esophageal biopsies. Most patients present with recurrent dysphagia and food impaction, rather than odynophagia. Typical findings on EGD include circumferential mucosal lesions and mucosal fragility.

Image File: 790-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9465504a.jpg

**E - Degeneration of inhibitory neurons within the myenteric plexuses** - Achalasia, caused by the degeneration of inhibitory neurons in the myenteric plexus of the esophagus, may present with dysphagia, retrosternal pain, and regurgitation. EGD findings are typically normal, and the diagnosis is confirmed with manometry or barium esophagram (classic “bird-beak” appearance). This patient's odynophagia and presence of ulcers on EGD suggest a different diagnosis.

**F - Diffuse esophageal spasm** - Diffuse esophageal spasm (DES) may present with dysphagia and squeezing retrosternal chest pain, though there are often predictable triggers (e.g., caffeine, hot or cold foods). EGD would show normal esophageal mucosa and the diagnosis is confirmed with barium esophagram (classic finding is corkscrew esophagus). This patient's odynophagia and ulcers on endoscopy are not consistent with DES and suggest a different diagnosis.

**G - Infection with Candida species** - Candida species cause the vast majority of HIV-associated esophagitis, and for this reason, patients with HIV and odynophagia are usually treated empirically with fluconazole. This patient's lack of clinical response to empiric fluconazole makes esophageal candidiasis unlikely. Additionally, EGD findings in esophageal candidiasis typically include whitish/yellow plaques lining the esophageal mucosa, unlike the superficial ulcers seen in this patient. Lastly, oral thrush is usually also present.

Image File: 790-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_53d90e5d88075.jpg

**H - Infection with cytomegalovirus** - Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection is an important cause of esophagitis to consider in immunocompromised patients. However, CMV infections typically only occur when CD4 counts are ≤ 50/mm3. Classic EGD findings are linear or longitudinal ulcers, unlike the round, superficial ulcers seen in this patient.

