### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Azithromycin and ethambutol** - Treatment of disseminated MAC infection consists of two or three antimycobacterial drugs. The drugs used include a macrolide (clarithromycin or azithromycin) in combination with ethambutol. Sometimes rifabutin is added as a third drug (e.g., in patients with a high mycobacterial load). Antiretroviral HIV therapy to bring the CD4 count to > 200 cells/mm3 is also recommended.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Amphotericin B and itraconazole** - Amphotericin B and itraconazole are indicated in severe pulmonary or disseminated histoplasmosis, a fungal infection that is likely to occur in patients with AIDS as a result of their impaired defense against intracellular pathogens. Histoplasmosis may also present with fever, hepatosplenomegaly, diarrhea, and acid-fastness. However, this patient has not been to regions where histoplasmosis is endemic (Mississippi and Ohio River valleys) and where he could have inhaled H. capsulatum spores from bat or bird droppings. Moreover, severely immunocompromised patients (CD4 count < 150/μL) with histoplasmosis usually present with more severe symptoms such as pancytopenia, renal failure, and shock.

Combination therapy with amphotericin B and itraconazole is also indicated in disseminated coccidioidomycosis, which may present similar to a MAC infection and is likely in a HIV patient with a decreased CD4 count (< 250/μL). However, the meninges are typically also affected and the fungus Coccidioides is not acid-fast. In addition, this patient has not been to regions where the fungus is endemic (e.g., certain parts of California and Arizona).

Image File: 791-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f63531e85d20.jpg

**B - Nitazoxanide** - Nitazoxanide is used in the treatment of cryptosporidiosis, which could be responsible for this patient's abdominal tenderness, fever, weight loss, and diarrhea, and is likely in a patient with AIDS and a CD4 count < 200/μL. However, diarrhea would be watery and severe, and there would not be respiratory findings such as dry cough and crackles on auscultation. Diagnostics would show acid-fast cysts in stool rather than in blood cultures.

Image File: 791-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5603f49d0f9d6.jpg

**C - Rifampin and isoniazid** - Rifampin and isoniazid constitute the therapeutic regimen in latent tuberculosis, which is asymptomatic. Generally (although depending on the local prevalence of TB), an induration of > 5 mm is needed to secure a diagnosis of latent TB in patients with HIV infection. The patient presenting with constitutional symptoms, fatigue, fever, and weight loss, however, would be concerning for active (and not latent) TB. However, active TB would also typically present with dyspnea, productive cough (possibly hemoptysis), and night sweats (absent in this patient.) Although bowel involvement is possible, it is a very rare complication. If the patient were to be diagnosed with active TB, the treatment regimen would be extended to rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol.

Image File: 791-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57dbeeea015c7.jpg

**D - Voriconazole** - Voriconazole is the treatment of choice in invasive aspergillosis, which may also present with dry cough in immunocompromised patients. However, pulmonary symptoms are usually more severe (e.g., hemoptysis, pleuritic chest pain). Moreover, culture results would show narrow organisms with dichotomous hyphae at a 30–45° angle after staining.

Image File: 791-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_50e04cf735c77.jpg

**E - Erythromycin** - Erythromycin is the first-line drug for the treatment of bacillary angiomatosis, which may also present with multiple skin lesions on the chest and constitutional symptoms such as fever, malaise, and anorexia. However, those lesions are typically red papules that bleed easily, rather than elevated violaceous plaques. This patient's skin changes are characteristic for Kaposi sarcoma, which is treated with antiretroviral HIV therapy, surgical excision, and systemic interferon-alpha.

