### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Provide reassurance** - Supportive therapy and reassurance are indicated for this boy’s uncomplicated bronchiolitis. His vital signs are reassuring and his chest x-ray is consistent with thymic shadow, a normal finding in children less than 3 years old. The thymus varies in size and shape and involutes with age, eventually being replaced by fatty tissue.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Begin oral antibiotic therapy** - Oral antibiotics would be appropriate if bacterial pneumonia were suspected. Although this infant has fever and cough, the results of his chest x-ray are consistent with a benign finding that is typical of children his age. Apart from symptoms of viral bronchiolitis, he is otherwise healthy; antibiotics are not indicated at this time.

**C - Perform PPD skin testing** - A PPD skin test is a screening tool used to diagnose latent Mycobacterium tuberculosis (TB) infection, which is typically asymptomatic. This patient has no reported risk factors for TB (e.g., close contact with an infected person, immigration from an endemic area) and screening is not indicated. He has bronchiolitis and the opacity seen on his x-ray is consistent with a benign finding that is common for his age.

**D - Obtain a CT scan of the chest** - CT scan of the chest would be appropriate if there were pulmonary or mediastinal findings on chest x-ray that required further characterization (e.g., infiltrate, mediastinal mass). However, the opacity seen on this patient's x-ray is a benign finding that is common for his age. A CT scan carries a large radiation burden and there is no indication to warrant further imaging.

**E - Measure serum immunoglobulin levels** - Measurement of serum immunoglobulin levels would be indicated if an immunodeficiency disorder or thymoma were suspected. There is no history to suggest thymoma or immunodeficiency in this patient; UTI and uncomplicated upper respiratory infection are common in healthy children. This infant's normal thymic shadow on chest x-ray is inconsistent with SCID and DiGeorge syndrome, which are typically characterized by thymic hypoplasia.

**F - Measure T cell count** - Measurement of T cell count would be indicated if an immunodeficiency disorder were suspected, such as SCID or DiGeorge syndrome. However, there is no history to suggest immunocompromise in this patient; UTI and uncomplicated upper respiratory infection are not uncommon in healthy children. The presence of a normal thymic shadow on this patient's chest x-ray is inconsistent with SCID and DiGeorge syndrome, which are characterized by thymic hypoplasia.

**G - Perform bronchoscopy** - Bronchoscopy is an invasive diagnostic tool that can be used to diagnose various bronchopulmonary diseases (e.g., suspected malignancy, atypical infection, tracheomalacia, diffuse alveolar hemorrhage). This patient has a fever and opacity on chest x-ray, but is an otherwise healthy child with a short duration of mild symptoms and reassuring vital signs. His radiographic opacity is consistent with a benign finding that is typical of children his age. Bronchoscopy is not indicated.

