### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Positive rapid plasma reagin test** - Rapid plasma reagin test (RPR) is a nonspecific screening test for syphilis that detects anticardiolipin antibodies. This patient with features of systemic lupus erythematosus and antiphospholipid syndrome likely has antibodies against cardiolipin (a common type of antiphospholipid antibodies), which react with RPR and VDRL test, resulting in false-positive testing for infection with Treponema pallidum. False-positive RPR testing can also be seen in infectious mononucleosis, hepatitis A, malaria, and pregnancy.

Image File: 796-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5de917ba24104.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Positive anti-citrullinated peptide antibodies** - Anti-citrullinated peptide antibodies (anti-CCP antibodies) are highly specific for rheumatoid arthritis (RA), which may present with joint pain, constitutional symptoms such as fatigue, and a history of deep vein thromboses. However, this patient's discoid rash and oral ulcers make RA an unlikely diagnosis.

**C - Decreased activated partial thromboplastin time** - Although patients with antiphospholipid syndrome are in a hypercoagulable state, the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) would be paradoxically increased rather than decreased. Patients with antiphospholipid syndrome have antibodies (e.g., lupus anticoagulants) that prolong aPTT in vitro.

**D - Negative anti-double-stranded DNA antibodies** - This patient with features of SLE likely has anti-double-stranded DNA antibodies (anti-dsDNA), which are highly specific for SLE and positive in approx. 70% of patients. Elevated levels of anti-dsDNA antibodies are associated with increased disease activity and presence of lupus nephritis.

**E - Negative antinuclear antibodies** - This patient with features of systemic lupus erythematosus likely has antinuclear antibodies, which are found in > 95% of patients with SLE. Antinuclear antibodies are useful to screen for SLE.

