### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Immune thrombocytopenia** - CVID is associated with an increased risk of developing autoimmune disorders (e.g., immune thrombocytopenia, rheumatoid arthritis, autoimmune hemolytic anemia, autoimmune thyroiditis, vitiligo) as a result of immune system dysregulation. Patients with CVID are also at increased risk of developing lymphoma, gastric cancer, and bronchiectasis.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pathological fractures** - Pathological fractures are common in patients with autosomal dominant hyper-IgE syndrome (Job syndrome) because of decreased bone density caused by increased bone reabsorption. Job syndrome can also manifest with recurrent sinopulmonary infections due to a defect in neutrophil chemotaxis. This patient, however, has decreased rather than increased serum levels of IgE. Moreover, patients with Job syndrome usually present with coarse facies (e.g., broad nose, frontal bossing) and other dermatologic findings (e.g., severe eczema, noninflamed skin abscesses), none of which are seen here.

**B - Retinal hypopigmentation** - Retinal hypopigmentation due to oculocutaneous albinism can be seen in patients with Chédiak-Higashi syndrome, which also manifests with recurrent pyogenic infections. However, normal rather than low serum immunoglobulin levels are expected in these patients. Moreover, Chédiak-Higashi syndrome usually manifests with neutropenia and the peripheral blood smear typically shows giant cytoplasmic granules in granulocytes and platelets, none of which are seen here.

Image File: 797-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f3fb66d23f87.jpg

**D - Cerebellar ataxia** - Cerebellar ataxia is seen in patients with ataxia-telangiectasia, which can also manifest with recurrent sinopulmonary infections and low serum levels of IgA, IgE, and IgG. However, low serum levels of IgM are not expected. Moreover, the age of onset is generally 6–18 months and ataxia-telangiectasia typically manifests with spider angiomas and other neurological features (e.g., chorea, dystonia, myoclonic jerks, oculomotor apraxia), none of which are seen here.

**E - Left heart failure** - Left heart failure due to hypoplastic left heart syndrome can occur in patients with DiGeorge syndrome, which can also manifest with recurrent sinopulmonary infections and low serum IgM levels. However, low serum levels of IgA, IgG, and IgE are not expected. Moreover, this patient does not have other typical findings seen in patients with DiGeorge syndrome, such as facial anomalies (i.e., dysplastic ears, micrognathia, cleft palate), features of hypocalcemia (e.g., tetany), and an absent thymic shadow on chest x-ray.

