### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Paroxetine therapy** - Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), such as paroxetine, are the first-line treatment for patients with MDD. In addition, SSRIs are approved for patients with postpartum depression as they are safe to use while breastfeeding. It may take 4–6 weeks to see any symptom reduction; if no improvement is seen after this time, it is reasonable to increase the dose, transition to another SSRI, or switch to a different drug class. Psychological and behavioral therapy should also be recommended for this patient, as the combination of psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy is more efficacious than either one alone.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Electroconvulsive therapy** - Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) can be used to treat severe cases of MDD with peripartum onset (e.g., for patients who have suicidal or homicidal intent, refuse foods and fluids, or pose an imminent risk of harm to self or child). ECT is also used to treat refractory MDD. For this patient with mild to moderate postpartum depression, a different treatment modality is the most appropriate next step in management.

**C - Reassurance** - Reassurance is appropriate for patients with postpartum blues, which typically manifests with mild depressive symptoms (e.g., depressed mood, lethargy, anxiety, exhaustion, insomnia) within 1 week of delivery and resolves spontaneously within 2 weeks. However, this patient's symptoms started 2 weeks after giving birth and have persisted for 4 weeks. Her presentation meets the criteria for MDD with peripartum onset, for which reassurance alone is not the most appropriate next step in management.

**D - Lithium therapy** - Lithium is a mood stabilizer that can be used to treat postpartum psychosis and bipolar major depression, both of which can manifest with depressed mood. However, this patient does not exhibit any features of psychosis (e.g., hallucinations, delusions, paranoia) or manic symptoms (i.e., DIG-FAST symptoms). Lithium is not used to treat MDD with peripartum onset. Moreover, this drug should be used with caution in women who are breastfeeding because its effects on infants are unclear.

**E - Hospitalization** - Hospitalization is indicated for patients with postpartum psychosis, which typically manifests with features of psychosis (e.g., hallucinations, delusions, paranoia), manic or depressed mood, severe insomnia, anxiety, and irritability within 2 weeks of delivery. Though this patient has depressive symptoms, she does not have features of psychosis. Hospitalization is also indicated in patients with MDD who have suicidal or homicidal ideations, which this patient does not have.

