### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Prescribe fluoxetine** - SSRIs, such as fluoxetine, are considered first-line treatment for panic disorder. This patient has recurrent panic attacks and exhibits all the core components of panic disorder (frequent attacks without an identifiable trigger, anticipatory anxiety). SSRIs have been shown to be effective in reducing the severity of all these features. Moreover, they are associated with a more favorable side effect profile when compared to other medications that may be considered to treat this condition (e.g., benzodiazepines).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - D-dimer measurement** - D-dimer levels can be used in the diagnosis of suspected pulmonary embolism, which can present with symptoms like tachycardia, shortness of breath, and diaphoresis. However, these symptoms would be unlikely to resolve without treatment and the recurrent pattern of her presentation makes this very unlikely.

**C - Administer propranolol** - Propranolol, a beta-blocker, can be used as an adjunctive therapy in the treatment of panic disorder and would likely help with her symptom of palpitations. However, beta-blockers have not been shown to be very effective for this disorder and a different medication would be more helpful in the management of this patient.

**D - Prescribe buspirone** - Buspirone is indicated in the treatment of patients with generalized anxiety disorder. Although this patient has some anxiety-related symptoms, GAD is associated with excessive worrying of everyday tasks that affects daily functioning for at least 6 months, rather than anticipatory anxiety of experiencing future panic attacks.

**E - Exposure therapy** - Exposure therapy is used in the management of panic disorders involving a specific phobia. Although this patient now avoids busy spaces, this is secondary to her fear of triggering future panic attacks and not because of a specific phobia. Exposure therapy would not be likely to benefit this patient.

**F - 24-hour Holter monitoring** - 24-hour Holter monitoring is used in the evaluation of suspected cardiac arrhythmia. A paroxysmal arrhythmia (e.g., supraventricular tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, etc) could present similarly with self-resolving episodic palpitations, dyspnea, and diaphoresis. However, her symptoms are secondary to her panic disorder, and the normal ECGs during her attacks make an underlying arrhythmia extremely unlikely.

**G - Echocardiography** - Echocardiography is used to evaluate for any structural defects of the heart, such as myocardial infarction, valvular dysfunction, and heart failure. She does not have any history to suggest cardiac pathology and an echocardiography is not indicated.

**H - Administer lorazepam** - Lorazepam and other benzodiazepines can be used to treat acute panic attacks in patients with panic disorder. This patient is not currently experiencing a panic attack, and benzodiazepines should be avoided given their negative side effect profile and high abuse potential. A different management strategy would be more effective for improving her symptoms and minimizing further attacks from occurring.

