### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - C** - Studies have shown that most vaccines, including 13-Valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13), meningococcal vaccine, and Hib vaccine, achieve the best immune response when administered two weeks after surgery for patients who have undergone an urgent splenectomy. The ideal time to administer the PPSV23 is at 8 weeks after administration of the PCV13 vaccine (or 10 weeks post surgery). Since the risk of developing sepsis is low in asplenic adults compared to asplenic children, daily antibiotic prophylaxis is not recommended for this 29-year-old patient.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - Studies have shown that vaccination immediately after surgery does not lead to optimal antibody response. Therefore, vaccination one day post surgery would not be recommended.

**B - B** - Studies have demonstrated that simultaneous administration of the 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) and the 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV23) leads to a suboptimal antibody response. It is preferable to administer the PCV13 first, and administer the PPSV23 after a scheduled delay. In addition, while antibiotic prophylaxis is recommended in asplenic children due to an increased risk of sepsis, the risk of developing sepsis is low in asplenic adults and daily antibiotic prophylaxis is not recommended. If a patient develops pneumococcal sepsis, lifelong antibiotic prophylaxis can be considered at that time.

**D - D** - Studies have shown that vaccination immediately after surgery does not lead to optimal antibody response. Therefore, vaccination one day post surgery would not be recommended.

**E - E** - While antibiotic prophylaxis is recommended in asplenic children because of an increased risk of sepsis, the risk of developing sepsis is low in asplenic adults and daily antibiotic prophylaxis is not recommended. If a patient develops pneumococcal sepsis, lifelong antibiotic prophylaxis can be considered at that time.

