### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Measles, mumps, rubella vaccine** - Vaccinations in HIV-infected individuals should follow the generally recommended immunization schedule, including for live vaccines. Adults with uncertain immunity to measles, mumps, and rubella (unknown vaccination status, no laboratory evidence of immunity, birth after 1957) should be given a dose of MMR vaccine, provided the CD4+ count is > 200 cells/mm3. Further recommendations for HIV patients include vaccinations for pneumococcal disease and influenza (using the inactivated or recombinant influenza vaccines, as the live-attenuated vaccine is not recommended regardless of CD4+ count).

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hepatitis B vaccine** - Hepatitis B vaccine is generally recommended for all HIV-positive patients without immunity to hepatitis B. A booster dose following previous vaccination is required if the anti-HBs titer is < 10 mlU/mL. Since this patient's anti-HBs titer is 150 mlU/mL, he still has adequate immunity to hepatitis B.

**B - Bacillus Calmette Guerin vaccine** - The Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) live vaccine is given to select patient groups (e.g., children with a negative TST and continued high-risk exposure, health-care workers on an individual basis) to prevent TB infection. However, it is no longer generally recommended in the US because of its variable effectiveness and the overall low risk of infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

**C - Tetanus, diphtheria vaccine** - In adults with a completed routine tetanus and diphtheria vaccination, booster doses are recommended every 10 years. In cases of injury with an increased risk of tetanus infection (e.g., animal bites), a booster dose is administered if the last immunization was ≥ 5 years ago. Since this patient's tetanus and diphtheria vaccination are up-to-date, no further boost is required at this point.

**E - Yellow fever vaccine** - Yellow fever vaccine should be administered in individuals traveling to endemic areas, including tropical Africa and parts of Central and South America (e.g., Brazil, Ecuador). While live vaccines like the yellow fever vaccine can be safely administered in HIV patients with a CD4+ count > 200 cells/mm3 and no signs of immunocompromise (e.g., presence of AIDS-defining illness), yellow fever is not endemic in Thailand.

Image File: 801-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58235b1507a1e.jpg

**F - No vaccination** - The standard immunization schedule should generally be observed in patients with HIV. Exceptions to this rule include a CD4 count < 200 cells/mm3 and the presence of AIDS-defining illnesses (e.g., Kaposi sarcoma, pneumocystis pneumonia). Since none of these exceptions are present in this case, he should receive the generally recommended vaccinations.

