### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Leukemoid reaction** - A leukemoid reaction is characterized by profound leukocytosis with a proportionate increase in all elements of the myeloid lineage (neutrophils, immature and mature precursors) and elevated leukocyte alkaline phosphatase (LAP), as seen in this patient. B symptoms, chronic fatigue, and hepatosplenomegaly are indicative of an underlying malignancy. The pulmonary nodule on chest x-ray, along with cough and shortness of breath are highly suggestive of a leukemoid reaction secondary to lung cancer. Leukemoid reactions can mimic leukemia but are typically due to infections (e.g., C. difficile colitis, whooping cough), drugs (e.g., glucocorticoids), and certain solid tumors (e.g., kidney cancer, Hodgkin lymphoma, and melanoma).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Tuberculosis** - This patient has clinical features of tuberculosis, such as weight loss, night sweats, fatigue, and cough. Some cases of tuberculosis may also cause a leukemoid reaction with a proportionate increase in all elements of the myeloid lineage and elevated LAP. However, patients with tuberculosis usually have a travel history to endemic areas (e.g., India, Indonesia, or China). In addition, the chest x-ray in tuberculosis would typically show cavitary lesions near the apex, which is not the case here.

**C - Chronic myeloid leukemia** - This patient has some features that are typical of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), such as night sweats, weight loss, fatigue, hepatosplenomegaly, and leukocytosis with an increase in elements of the myeloid lineage. However, this patient presents with an increased LAP level; in CML, the LAP is usually decreased.

**D - Acute lymphoblastic leukemia** - Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) may also present with fatigue, fever, and hepatosplenomegaly and/or leukocytosis. While this patient presents with a proportionate increase in all elements of the myeloid lineage, ALL would affect the lymphoid cell line, typically showing a highly increased number of lymphoblasts in the WBC differential. In addition, ALL most commonly affects children 2–5 years of age, making a different diagnosis more likely in this 60-year-old man.

**E - Sarcoidosis** - This patient has clinical features of sarcoidosis, such as weight loss, night sweats, fatigue, and cough. Some cases of sarcoidosis may also cause a leukemoid reaction with a proportionate increase in all elements of the myeloid lineage and elevated LAP. However, he does not have other typical features like peripheral lymphadenopathy and/or iridocyclitis. Moreover, chest x-ray would typically show bilateral hilar and mediastinal nodal enlargement with reticulonodular opacities, which is not the case here.

