### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Seborrheic dermatitis** - This patient presents with a pruritic rash affecting areas of high sebaceous activity (i.e., his face, eyelids, and scalp). These features are typical of seborrheic dermatitis, an idiopathic, chronic, relapsing condition that is frequently seen in HIV-positive individuals, such as this patient.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Psoriasis** - Psoriatic lesions can present as pruritic erythematous scaly plaques that are recurrent with symptom-free intervals, like in this patient. However, the typical lesions will be sharply-demarcated with numerous silvery-white scales and have a predilection to occur on the scalp, back, and extensor surfaces of the elbows and knees.

Image File: 805-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_553e2834b7fb1.jpg

**B - Allergic contact dermatitis** - Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) can present with a pruritic, erythematous rash, as seen in this patient. However, the rash in this patient is not limited to the parts of the skin he uses the shaving cream on; the scaly rash is also seen on his eyelids and forehead, and scales in ACD are dry and white rather than greasy and yellow. Moreover, ACD develops within 48 hours of contact with the allergen, and the 2-month period between this patient changing shaving cream and developing a rash is not consistent with this diagnosis.

Image File: 805-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d919a30c3.jpg

**C - Systemic lupus erythematosus** - The typical rash of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a symmetric erythema over the bridge of the nose and the cheeks that characteristically spares the nasolabial folds (butterfly rash). This patient's rash involves the nasolabial folds, is pruritic, and has greasy yellow scales, none of which are seen in SLE. In addition, other early manifestations of SLE, such as fatigue, myalgia, and arthritis, are absent in this patient, making it an unlikely diagnosis.

Image File: 805-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d942149bd.jpg

**D - Rosacea** - Chronic/recurrent central facial erythema (nose and medial cheeks), as seen in this patient, is a common feature of rosacea. In some patients, the eyelids are also involved (i.e., blepharitis in ocular rosacea). However, the lesions of rosacea are not pruritic and scales, if present, are dry and white, unlike in patient. In addition, the most characteristic signs of rosacea, such as telangiectasia and/or papules and pustules in the affected area, are not seen in this patient.

Image File: 805-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91a499df.jpg

**E - Pellagra** - Cutaneous manifestations of pellagra include bilaterally symmetrical erythematous lesions that usually affect sun-exposed areas (e.g., the face, neck), the hands, and the feet. A burning sensation is common in pellagra, which is seen in this patient, but pruritus is not present. Although this patient's high consumption of alcohol is a risk factor for the development of pellagra, he has none of the other features of pellagra (i.e., diarrhea, glossitis, fatigue).

**F - Pityriasis versicolor** - Pityriasis versicolor presents with multiple, pruritic, well-demarcated lesions that may be mildly erythematous, hyperpigmented, or hypopigmented and are typically seen on the trunk and shoulders; the face is an uncommon site for pityriasis versicolor. The lesions have very fine white scales and do not tan, which is why they become more apparent after sun exposure.

Image File: 805-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94f445b2.jpg

**H - Dermatomyositis** - Cutaneous manifestations of dermatomyositis (DM) include midfacial erythema that affects the nasolabial folds and the eyelids (heliotrope rash), which is similar to the distribution of the rash seen in this patient. Although myopathy is an important and common symptom of DM, cutaneous features can precede the onset of myopathy. However, the skin manifestations of DM are, in contrast to this patient's rash, non-pruritic, and other cutaneous manifestations like Gottron papules and the Shawl sign are missing, making DM an unlikely cause of this patient's symptoms.

Image File: 805-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_601557a9e5fde.jpg

