### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Reconstitution of the immune response** - Immune reconstitution inflammatory response (IRIS) is a complication of combined antiretroviral therapy (cART) in individuals with HIV. IRIS manifests with recurring or worsening symptoms of a preexisting opportunistic infection (e.g., tuberculosis, cryptococcosis) after a transient improvement, generally within 2 months of cART initiation. IRIS is not a side effect of cART, but rather reflects a good response to cART and an enhanced immune response that paradoxically initiates an uncontrolled inflammatory reaction. An important risk factor for IRIS is a low CD4+ T-lymphocyte count at the time of cART initiation, which is seen here. Patients with IRIS should continue cART therapy and antibiotic therapy directed to the underlying opportunistic infection. Therapy with steroids can be initiated in patients with severe IRIS.

To reduce the risk of developing IRIS, combined ART should only be initiated 2–8 weeks after commencing therapy directed against the opportunistic infection.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Resistance of the pathogen to therapy** - Drug-resistant tuberculosis (DR-TB) could manifest with persistent symptoms despite antituberculous treatment with first-line agents (i.e., isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, ethambutol). However, this patient responded to TB therapy (negative microscopy and culture results, clinical and radiologic improvement one month after initiation of treatment) before developing features of TB again, which is inconsistent with DR-TB.

A drug-resistant variant of HIV could also be responsible for this patient's presentation. However, it is highly unlikely given her significant increase in CD4+ T-lymphocyte count and decrease in HIV viral load after the initiation of cART, which indicates a good response to therapy.

**C - Pharmacokinetic interaction between medications** - This patient's concomitant use of antiretroviral and antituberculous drugs (rifampin) puts her at increased risk of pharmacokinetic drug interactions. Rifampin is a CYP450 inducer that can accelerate the metabolism of several retroviral drugs (e.g., dolutegravir), thereby lowering their efficacy and predisposing patients to persistent symptoms of opportunistic infections. This patient showed a good response to cART with a significant increase in CD4+ T-lymphocyte count and decrease in HIV viral load, which means the therapeutic effect of cART was not affected by the concomitant use of rifampin.

**D - Superinfection with gram-positive cocci** - Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) in individuals with HIV, and it is characterized by malaise, fever, cough, hypoxemia, and chest x-ray (CXR) infiltrates. However, pulmonary nodules and increased hilar prominence on CXR are not typical for CAP, which rather manifests with CXR findings such as air bronchograms, diffuse reticular opacities, lobar infiltrates, or parapneumonic effusion. In addition, antiretroviral therapy decreases the risk of developing CAP in patients with HIV; given this patient's good response to cART (increased CD4+ T-lymphocyte count, decreased HIV viral load), it is unlikely that she developed CAP.

**E - Hypersensitivity to abacavir** - Abacavir-related hypersensitivity syndrome (ARHS) is a life-threatening complication of abacavir therapy in HLA-B*57:01-positive individuals that can manifest with fever and malaise. Although this patient's regimen includes abacavir, she tested negative for HLA-B*57:01 mutation, so she is not at risk for developing ARHS.

