### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - X-ray of the chest** - Erythema nodosum is thought to be due to a delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction to various circulating immune complexes. Most cases of EN are idiopathic, but it can be a cutaneous manifestation of an underlying/preceding systemic disease, most commonly streptococcal pharyngitis or sarcoidosis. The primary workup of every patient with EN should therefore include evaluation of CBC and ASO titers, which are normal in this patient. The elevated ESR could be indicative of a systemic illness. The next step is to obtain an x-ray of the chest to evaluate for the presence of hilar lymphadenopathy, a sign of underlying sarcoidosis, which commonly affects young women, such as this patient.

Image File: 807-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94ec0143.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral amoxicillin** - One of the most common conditions associated with EN is streptococcal pharyngitis, which can be treated with oral amoxicillin. However, this patient had no preceding complaints of a sore throat and has a normal CBC and ASO titers, making a streptococcal infection unlikely. Oral amoxicillin may be indicated for the treatment of subcutaneous abscesses that present as tender nodules, like in this case scenario. The lesions in this patient evolved into bruise-like lesions, however, which is a typical presentation of EN. In addition, patients with subcutaneous infections would have signs of systemic disease (i.e., fever) and neutrophilic leukocytosis.

**B - Oral isoniazid** - Oral isoniazid is recommended for the treatment of latent tuberculosis, and tuberculosis is a known infectious cause of EN. However, this patient does not have any signs or symptoms of TB (e.g., cough, fever, night sweats, weight loss) or risk factors for latent TB (recent exposure or travel to an endemic region). Moreover, since she has not yet undergone testing for latent TB, empirical treatment of tuberculosis would not be indicated at this time in any case.

**C - Antinuclear antibodies** - Serum antinuclear antibodies (ANA) indicate the presence of circulating autoantibodies. Highly elevated ANA levels are an indication of an underlying autoimmune disease, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, Sjögren syndrome, or systemic sclerosis. This patient's ESR is elevated and she has malaise and joint pain, which could be a sign of an underlying autoimmune disease. EN is nonspecific and can occasionally occur in patients with an underlying autoimmune disease. However, ANA are not part of the routine diagnostic workup of EN. A more common cause of EN should first be investigated and ruled out before looking at less common causes.

**E - Stool culture** - Stool cultures are helpful in the diagnosis of gastrointestinal infections. Gastroenteritis secondary to Yersinia, Salmonella, and Campylobacter can cause EN. However, given the absence of diarrhea, nausea, or abdominal pain, this etiology is unlikely and, therefore, stool culture is not indicated.

**F - Skin biopsy** - Erythema nodosum is a clinical diagnosis. A biopsy of the lesion is indicated only if atypical features are seen, such as ulceration or location other than the shins. The characteristic histopathologic finding is a septal panniculitis without vasculitis. Because this patient presents with typical features of EN, (i.e., bilaterally symmetrical, multiple, tender, nonulcerated subcutaneous nodules/plaques on the shins), a biopsy is not indicated.

**G - Triamcinolone injection** - The lesions associated with EN usually resolve spontaneously within a few weeks. Intralesional steroid injections (e.g., with triamcinolone) are a treatment option for patients with severe pain despite treatment with NSAIDs.

