### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Ultrasound of the liver** - The presence of pain in the graft region (RUQ), jaundice, and rising bilirubin within 6 months of orthotopic liver transplantation raises concern for acute transplant rejection. However, since these clinical findings are nonspecific, duplex ultrasound of the liver should be performed to rule out possible vascular complications (e.g. portal vein thrombosis, bleeding), biliary complications (e.g., leak, stricture), and liver infection (e.g. perihepatic abscess). Duplex ultrasound is a non-invasive, precise, and cost-effective method that can be used at the patient's bedside. If acute transplant rejection is suspected, a liver biopsy showing interstitial lymphocytic infiltrate would confirm the diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography** - Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) would be appropriate if the first-line diagnostic study suggested complications affecting the biliary tree. MRCP is not the first diagnostic modality in the work up of suspected acute liver transplant rejection, as it visualizes the biliary tract only and is furthermore time-consuming and expensive.

**B - CT scan of the abdomen with contrast** - CT scan of the abdomen with contrast is not the first-line radiologic study in the workup of suspected acute liver transplant rejection. Only if the first-line diagnostic modality suggests vascular complications (e.g., hepatic artery thrombosis), biliary complications (e.g., leak, stricture), or liver infection (e.g., perihepatic abscess), a CT scan would be appropriate. However, a more cost-effective method without radiation and contrast exposure should be conducted first.

**C - Viral loads** - Viral infection (e.g., HSV, CMV or EBV) can present with jaundice, abdominal pain, and elevated bilirubin, as seen in this patient. However, this patient is taking CMV prophylaxis (valganciclovir), making a viral infection less likely. The rather unspecific clinical presentation of this patient (pain in the graft region, jaundice, and rising bilirubin) without associated fever raises concern for acute transplant rejection or other complications of liver transplantation (e.g., portal vein thrombosis, biliary leak, liver infection), which should be evaluated with a different diagnostic tool first. If infection remains the suspected cause of symptoms, testing for viral loads (viral particles detected by PCR) is appropriate.

**D - Liver biopsy** - Liver biopsy is the gold standard for the definitive diagnosis of acute transplant rejection and will likely be required in this patient at a later time. However, biopsy is an invasive procedure associated with small but considerable risk of complications, especially in liver transplant recipients. It can demonstrate pathologies of the liver parenchyma, but not of the extrahepatic vessels and biliary ducts. Since this patient's clinical findings are rather nonspecific, another less invasive diagnostic tool should be used first to rule out other potential post-transplant complications.

**E - Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography** - Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography provides excellent visualization of the biliary tree and would be appropriate in this patient (i.e., < 6 months post-transplant with hepatic dysfunction) after the first-line diagnostic tool suggested biliary pathology (e.g., dilation, stricture, leak). Since this patient's presentation is rather non-specific, and can be caused by other complications of liver transplantation (acute transplant rejection, vascular complications, infection), a more cost-effective and less invasive diagnostic modality should be performed first.

Image File: 808-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d910cc97a.jpg

**F - Esophagogastroduodenoscopy** - Esophagogastroduodenoscopy is usually performed if, e.g., gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, or formation (and/or possible bleeding) of esophageal varices is suspected. The rather unspecific clinical presentation of this patient (pain in the graft region, jaundice, and rising bilirubin) within 6 months after liver transplantation raises concern for acute transplant rejection or other complications of liver transplantation (e.g., portal vein thrombosis, biliary leak, liver infection), which should be evaluated with a different diagnostic tool.

