### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - History of intussusception** - The rotavirus vaccine is a live attenuated vaccine recommended in the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) immunization schedule for all infants at 6 weeks (with a second and third dose at 4 months and 6 months, depending on the vaccine). This boy is 4 months old and should receive a second dose of the rotavirus vaccine as part of his routine immunizations. However, an increased risk of intussusception after administration of the vaccine has been shown in some studies. Therefore, the rotavirus vaccine is contraindicated in patients with a history of intussusception. The exact mechanism by which rotavirus vaccine increases the risk of intussusception remains unknown.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Fever of 38.2°C (100.7°F) following previous vaccinations** - The DTaP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids, acellular pertussis) vaccination is contraindicated if a previous dose of the vaccine was followed by high fever ≥ 40.5°C (105°F) within 48 hours of vaccination. The DTaP vaccine is a routine childhood immunization. A fever of 38.5°C (101.3°F) following previous vaccinations, however, is not a contraindication for any routine childhood immunization.

**B - History of cystic fibrosis** - Cystic fibrosis itself is not a contraindication for any vaccines. If possible, patients with cystic fibrosis should always be up-to-date with their vaccinations to prevent complications.

**C - Allergy to egg protein** - Most live attenuated influenza vaccines (LAIVs) and inactivated influenza vaccines (IIVs) contain a limited amount of egg protein, but they are no longer contraindicated in patients with an allergy according to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC). Patients with a severe allergy (i.e., anaphylaxis) should be closely monitored for adverse effects under supervision of a health care provider after receiving the vaccine. More importantly, the LAIV is not approved until 2 years of age and the IIV is only recommended for children age 6 months and older; an influenza vaccination is therefore not indicated at this time. The MMR vaccine contains virtually no egg protein and is generally considered safe in individuals with egg allergies.

**D - Family history of autism** - Some parents may be concerned about possible associations between vaccinations and autism. However, many large epidemiologic studies and systemic reviews have shown there is no connection between routine vaccination and autism, and parents with concerns should be reassured.

**E - History of febrile seizures** - Certain unstable neurological disorders, e.g., uncontrolled epilepsy, infantile spasms, and progressive encephalopathy, are contraindications for the pertussis vaccine. The pertussis vaccine is part of the DTaP (diphtheria and tetanus toxoids, acellular pertussis) vaccine, which is one of the routine childhood immunizations. However, a stable or resolved neurologic condition, or a history of uncomplicated febrile seizures, is not a contraindication for any standard childhood vaccines.

