### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Bipolar disorder type I** - Bipolar disorder type I is a mood disorder characterized by the occurrence of one or more manic episodes with or without depressive episodes. In order to diagnose bipolar disorder type 1, these manic episodes must last for at least 7 consecutive days, and patients must have at least 3 of the DIG FAST changes (distractibility, impulsive behavior, grandiosity, flight of ideas, activity increase, sleep deficit, and talkativeness). These changes cannot be attributable to an organic psychic disorder or psychotropic substances.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Delusional disorder** - Delusional disorder is characterized by at least one delusion that lasts for at least 1 month but does not cause significant functional impairment. This patient has experienced significant functional impairment as part of a manic episode for the last 10 days, but no delusions, making a different diagnosis more likely.

**B - Cyclothymic disorder** - Cyclothymic disorder is characterized by short hypomanic and mild depressive episodes over a period of at least 2 years. To diagnose the condition, the hypomanic episode must be shorter than 1 week and the depressive episodes must be shorter than 2 weeks. This patient has experienced significant functional impairment as part of a manic episode for the past 10 days, making a different diagnosis more likely.

**C - Bipolar disorder type II** - Bipolar disorder type II is characterized by the occurrence of at least one hypomanic episode and at least one major depressive episode. To diagnose the condition, the hypomanic episode must last for at least 4 consecutive days and may not impair functioning or necessitate hospitalization. This patient has experienced significant functional impairment as part of a manic episode for the past 10 days, making a different diagnosis more likely.

**D - Depression with atypical features** - Depression with atypical features is characterized by depressive episodes accompanied by mood reactivity, hyperphagia, hypersomnia, and/or interpersonal rejection sensitivity. This patient has experienced significant functional impairment as part of a manic episode without atypical features, making a different diagnosis more likely.

**F - Schizoaffective disorder** - Schizoaffective disorder is characterized by psychosis (e.g., hallucinations, delusions) that is intermittently accompanied by a major mood disorder (e.g., manic or depressive symptoms). To diagnose the condition, the psychotic symptoms must be more dominant than the mood symptoms, and psychosis must have been present for at least 2 weeks in the absence of any mood disturbance. This patient does not have any signs of psychosis, making a different diagnosis more likely.

**G - Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder** - ADHD is characterized by impulsivity, hyperactivity, and inattention that results in impairment of social skills and occupational or academic performance. Symptoms usually first appear before the age of 12 and must be present for at least 6 months in order for the condition to be diagnosed. Symptoms must occur in more than one setting (e.g., at school and at home). This patient has experienced significant functional impairment as part of a manic episode for the past 10 days and has a history of depression, making a different diagnosis more likely.

