### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Perform HPV testing** - In a patient > 25 years old with atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ASC-US) detected on Pap smear, HPV testing is the recommended next step in management. Since active HPV infections are detected in almost all cases of cervical cancer, a positive HPV test and pathological findings on a Pap test are associated with a significantly increased risk of developing a malignancy. Colposcopy is recommended if the HPV test is positive. In patients who are HPV-negative with ASC-US, a repeated test and HPV test after 3 years suffice.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform cervical biopsy** - A cervical biopsy is indicated in women with findings of atypical glandular cells and high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions on Pap test. Histological biopsy findings are used to confirm the cytological diagnosis established via Pap test. Since this patient has a low-grade cervical lesion, biopsy is not indicated.

**B - Perform loop electrosurgical excision procedure** - A loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) is used to treat women with high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions and CIN stages I–III. LEEP is both therapeutic and diagnostic, since the excised tissue can also be examined histologically. Since this patient has a low-grade cervical lesion (atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance) that is also not classified as CIN, LEEP is not indicated.

**D - Repeat cytology in 6 months** - Repeated cytology after 6 months is performed for monitoring higher-grade cervical lesions (e.g., high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions), which is not indicated in this patient with a low-grade cervical lesion. Although repeated cytology can be performed 12 months after the initial diagnosis of a low-grade lesion, this approach is primarily recommended for women 21–24 years of age.

**E - Perform colposcopy** - Colposcopy is performed in women with atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ASC-US) and a positive HPV test, or higher-grade pathological findings on Pap test (e.g., atypical glandular cells, high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion). Since this patient has ASC-US and her HPV status is unknown, colposcopy is not the most appropriate next step in management.

**F - Perform laser ablation** - Laser ablation is a treatment option for women with noninvasive cervical disease (CIN I–III) which allows targeted destruction of abnormal cells and significantly reduces the risk of developing invasive cervical disease. Since this patient was diagnosed with atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance that do not qualify as CIN (cervical intraepithelial neoplasia), laser ablation is not indicated.

