### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Brief psychotic disorder** - This patient's 1-week history of auditory hallucinations after her brother's funeral is suggestive of a brief psychotic disorder, which is characterized by positive psychotic symptoms (e.g., delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech) that are typically triggered by a stressful life event and last > 1 day and ≤ 1 month. The onset of symptoms is usually sudden (without a prodrome) and the functional impairment can be severe. After the episode, individuals gradually return to the premorbid state. Although this patient currently meets the diagnostic criteria for this condition, psychiatric diagnoses are dynamic, changing depending on the duration of symptoms and whether new symptoms arise. Since this patient also presents with depressed mood, insomnia, anhedonia, decreased appetite, and fatigue, if her symptoms persist for another week, the main diagnostic challenge would be to distinguish a brief psychotic disorder from a major depressive disorder with psychotic features.

Image File: 82-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_612351bfa1724.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Adjustment disorder** - Adjustment disorder can occur in response to a traumatic life event and manifest with impaired social functioning and symptoms of depressed mood, both of which are seen here. However, affected individuals do not present with the auditory hallucinations seen in this patient. Moreover, adjustment disorder is a diagnosis of exclusion, and this patient's symptoms are better explained by another psychological disorder.

**B - Acute stress disorder** - Acute stress disorder can manifest with insomnia and negative mood, both of which are seen here. Furthermore, the death of a relative can be traumatic and trigger an acute stress disorder. However, this condition does not manifest with hallucinations. Moreover, affected individuals also present with intrusive symptoms (e.g., recurrent distressing memories/dreams about the traumatic event, flashbacks), dissociative symptoms (e.g., loss of memory regarding details of the event), active avoidance (i.e., avoidance of external reminders, memories, thoughts, and feelings related to the event), and other symptoms related to arousal (e.g., irritable behavior, hypervigilance), none of which is seen in this patient.

**C - Major depressive disorder with psychotic features** - Major depressive disorder with psychotic features manifests with depressed mood, anhedonia, insomnia, fatigue, appetite changes, and psychotic symptoms such as auditory hallucinations, all of which are seen in this patient. The diagnostic criteria for this condition require the symptoms to last ≥ 2 weeks, so this patient does not meet the diagnostic criteria for this condition yet. If her symptoms last an additional week, this would be the most likely diagnosis.

**D - Normal bereavement** - Normal bereavement can manifest with sleep disturbances, depressed mood, and auditory hallucinations following the loss of a loved one, all of which are seen in this patient. However, normal bereavement does not usually impair daily functioning, and this patient's isolation and inability to go to school suggest impaired social functioning. Moreover, while auditory hallucinations of the deceased are possible in normal bereavement, hallucinations unrelated to the deceased suggest a different diagnosis.

**E - Pathological grief** - Pathological grief manifests with functional impairment in response to the death of a loved one, and affected individuals can present with features of depressed mood and hallucinations, as seen in this case. However, while auditory hallucinations of the deceased are possible in pathological grief, unrelated hallucinations are not. Moreover, pathological grief is usually diagnosed when the grieving process persists beyond 12 months, and this patient's symptoms started only 1 week ago.

**F - Schizoaffective disorder** - Schizoaffective disorder manifests with psychotic symptoms and mood symptoms, both of which are seen here. However, while this patient only presents with auditory hallucinations, the diagnostic criteria for this condition require the presence of ≥ 2 of the following psychotic symptoms: delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, negative symptoms, and grossly disorganized or catatonic behavior. Additionally, symptoms must be present for ≥ 2 weeks, and this patient's auditory hallucinations started only 1 week ago. Finally, diagnostic criteria for this condition also require that criteria for a major mood disorder are met in the periods without psychotic symptoms; this patient has not had any period without psychotic symptoms.

**G - Schizophreniform disorder** - Schizophreniform disorder manifests with psychotic symptoms such as auditory hallucinations and impaired functioning, both of which are seen in this patient. However, this patient's only psychotic symptom is auditory hallucinations, and diagnostic criteria for this condition require the presence of ≥ 2 of the following psychotic symptoms: delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, negative symptoms, and grossly disorganized or catatonic behavior. Additionally, symptoms must last for 1–6 months, and this patient's symptoms started only 1 week ago.

