### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Core needle biopsy** - In a patient with a palpable breast lump and suspicious findings on mammography, an ultrasound-guided core needle biopsy is the next best step to evaluate the extent of the tumor, confirm the diagnosis of breast cancer, and describe the histology of the tumor and its receptor profile. This test is essential for determining the most appropriate next step.

Image File: 821-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ac9ed16c2bf.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Fine needle aspiration** - Fine needle aspiration (FNA) cytology cannot provide information about the tissue architecture or receptor status. In patients with a palpable breast lump and suspicious findings on imaging, FNA has been superseded by a more sensitive and more specific modality. The primary role of FNA nowadays is the evaluation of nonsuspicious, cystic lesions in women younger than 30 years of age.

**B - Excisional biopsy** - Excisional biopsy (e.g., via lumpectomy) is an invasive procedure and is therefore not the most appropriate next step in diagnosing breast cancer. It may, however, be used for diagnosis in this patient if the appropriate next step is inconclusive but imaging shows a suspicious lesion or if the appropriate next step cannot be performed (e.g., lack of facilities or expertise for ultrasound-guided procedures).

**C - Bone scan** - In patients with suspected breast cancer, a bone scan is indicated in patients with localized bone pain and/or increased ALP and in all patients with stage III breast cancer or higher. In this patient, whose lymph nodes do not show signs of disease and who does not have bone pain, it would be inappropriate to perform a bone scan before performing tissue diagnosis and axillary staging.

**D - Measurement of serum CA 15–3** - CA15-3, which is a tumor marker in patients with breast cancer, is used for the follow-up of patients who have already received treatment and not for the diagnosis of breast cancer.

**E - Mastectomy** - A mastectomy would be indicated if histological examination of the tissue specimen obtained by the appropriate next step suggested breast cancer, and breast-conserving therapy was not indicated (e.g., tumor > 5 cm, a mass with microcalcifications, or a widespread disease that cannot be removed via single incision), or if the patient wished to undergo mastectomy. In a patient with a palpable breast lump, a mastectomy should not be performed without confirmation of breast cancer by tissue diagnosis.

