### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Pelvic inflammatory disease** - This patient has a classic presentation of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), which consists of lower abdominal pain (generally bilateral), cervical motion tenderness, and purulent vaginal discharge in a young, sexually active patient. Other associations include dyspareunia, dysuria, leukocytosis, and an elevated ESR, which are also present. All cases of PID require antibiotic treatment because it can cause permanent damage to the fallopian tubes, even resulting in infertility. As it is a polymicrobial disease, treatment usually includes broad-spectrum antibiotics such as third-generation cephalosporins.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pyelonephritis** - Pyelonephritis can also present with fever, nausea, dysuria, and abdominal or pelvic pain. In addition, patients typically have unilateral flank pain and costovertebral angle tenderness, which are absent here. This girl displays a variety of additional symptoms not found in patients with upper urinary tract infection (e.g., cervical motion tenderness, purulent vaginal discharge, dyspareunia).

**B - Ectopic pregnancy** - One of the most important findings in ectopic pregnancy is vaginal bleeding, which is absent in this patient. Additionally, symptoms usually appear 4–6 weeks after the last normal menstrual period, whereas this patient's last period was just 3 weeks ago. Cervical motion tenderness, uterine tenderness, or adnexal tenderness may be present in ectopic pregnancy, but the purulent cervical discharge seen on examination of this patient is not a characteristic finding.

**C - Ovarian cyst rupture** - An ovarian cyst rupture causes sudden, unilateral lower abdominal pain and typically occurs during periods of physical activity (e.g., exercise, sexual intercourse). This patient's pain is bilateral and although she had dyspareunia during sexual intercourse 3 days ago, her symptoms began 2 days prior to that. Moreover, the pain of a ruptured ovarian cyst is usually not associated with signs of infection such as fever or purulent discharge.

**D - Appendicitis** - Important findings in appendicitis include fever, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, leukocytosis, and elevated ESR, which are all present in this patient. However, purulent cervical discharge and cervical motion tenderness indicate infection of the reproductive organs rather than the appendix.

**E - Vulvovaginitis** - This patient's lower abdominal pain, purulent discharge, dyspareunia, and dysuria are all characteristic of vulvovaginitis. However, the pelvic exam shows cervical motion tenderness, which is characteristic of inflammation of the upper reproductive tract rather than the vulva or vagina. She also has symptoms that are generally more severe than those caused by vulvovaginitis (e.g., severe pain, fever).

**F - Cystitis** - This patient presents with dysuria and lower abdominal pain, both of which are symptoms of cystitis. However, cystitis does not typically present with fever, cervical motion tenderness, or vaginal discharge, although gross hematuria may be present. In addition, pain of cystitis tends to be localized suprapubically rather than in both lower abdominal quadrants.

