### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Endometrial ablation** - Endometrial ablation, i.e., the surgical destruction of the uterine lining, is a treatment option for patients with ovulatory HMB and no desire for future pregnancies when medical therapy is unsuccessful or contraindicated. In this patient, medical therapy with NSAIDs only provided minimal pain relief, and treatment with oral contraceptives is not recommended due to her smoking history and age. Furthermore, this patient does not have any contraindications for endometrial ablation, which include pregnancy, desire for future pregnancies, active pelvic infection, intrauterine device in-situ, previous uterine surgery, and a history of complex or atypical endometrial hyperplasia or cancer.

HMB is one form of abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB). The most common causes of AUB can be remembered using the PALM-COEIN system: Polyps, Adenomyosis, Leiomyomas, Malignancy and hyperplasia, Coagulopathy, Ovulatory dysfunction, Endometrial, Iatrogenic, Not otherwise classified. This patient's normal findings on physical examination, laboratory evaluation, and ultrasonography are consistent with a not otherwise classified AUB.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Combined oral contraceptives** - Combined oral contraceptive pill (COCP) therapy is the first-line treatment for patients with HMB, especially if symptoms are not relieved by NSAID use, as is the case here. However, COCPs are contraindicated in this patient because of her smoking history and age (> 35 years), both of which increase her risk of venous thromboembolism.

**B - Reassurance and follow-up** - This patient's heavy menstrual bleeding and severe cyclical pain significantly reduce her quality of life, so she requires treatment.

**D - Hysterectomy** - Hysterectomy is a definitive treatment option for patients with HMB who do not desire future pregnancies. However, it is only indicated for patients who do not respond to less invasive options or who have symptomatic anemia, which is not the case here. Hysterectomy is invasive and has a high risk of complications, so another option is more appropriate.

**E - Copper intrauterine device** - A copper intrauterine device (IUD) is not indicated for the treatment of HMB, and in fact, may worsen symptoms. On the other hand, a progestin IUD (i.e., levonorgestrel-releasing) is an effective, reversible, easy-to-use treatment option for patients with HMB, with the added benefit of long-term contraception. A progestin IUD would be a viable alternative treatment option for this patient, but a copper IUD would not.

