### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Glucose tolerance test in 8 weeks** - A 75 g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) is indicated at 6–12 weeks postpartum for all women with a history of gestational diabetes and a fasting serum glucose level of < 126 mg/dL after delivery. If OGTT is normal, a follow-up test (fasting glucose, HbA1c, or OGTT) should be performed every 3 years. In addition, healthy lifestyle behaviors (e.g., regular exercise, healthy diet, and weight loss) should be discussed. If the fasting serum glucose level is > 126 mg/dL after delivery or serum glucose level is ≥ 200 mg/dL 2 hours after the postpartum OGTT, type 2 diabetes mellitus can be diagnosed and should be treated accordingly. Prevention, early detection, and/or treatment of gestational diabetes reduces the risk of other complications such as metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular disease.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral vitamin B12 supplementation** - Vitamin B12 supplementation is indicated for patients with vitamin B12 deficiency, which may occur in women who do not consume animal products and in infants who are breastfed by women with vitamin B12 deficiency. This patient started consuming animal products when she became pregnant and has no signs of vitamin B12 deficiency (e.g., pallor, bilateral weakness, and bilateral upper and lower extremity paresthesias), making vitamin B12 supplementation unnecessary.

**C - MRI of the lumbosacral spine** - An MRI of the lumbosacral spine is indicated for women with atypical postpartum sensory neuropathy to rule out epidural hematoma, abscess, demyelination, and disc herniation. Decreased sensation in the left upper thigh suggests lateral femoral cutaneous nerve neuropathy, which is the most commonly injured nerve during labor. Most cases of postpartum neuropathy can be diagnosed without imaging and resolve spontaneously within the first 8 weeks postpartum. This patient has no indications for spine involvement or infection, making an MRI of the lumbosacral spine unnecessary.

**D - No further intervention is necessary** - Usually no further interventions are necessary after an uncomplicated pregnancy and delivery. However, this patient has a history of gestational diabetes, which increases her risk of developing diabetes mellitus type 2. Therefore, another approach is required.

**E - Superficial venous ablation therapy** - Superficial venous ablation therapy is indicated for patients with symptomatic chronic venous insufficiency (CVI) that is unresponsive to conservative treatment. While pregnancy is a risk factor for the development of CVI, this patient is asymptomatic and she has not yet received any conservative treatment (e.g., leg elevation, exercise, and compression therapy), making a different step in management more appropriate.

