### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Phencyclidine** - Phencyclidine (PCP) ingestion is the most likely cause of this patient's symptoms. PCP intoxication can lead to a wide variety of clinical presentations depending on the route of ingestion and amount consumed. Other common symptoms include increased pain tolerance, hallucinations, ataxia, amnesia, and seizures. PCP also frequently leads to miosis, which allows intoxication with it to be differentiated from intoxication due to cocaine or methamphetamine, which commonly present with dilated pupils. Treatment of PCP intoxication is primarily focused on controlling agitation, typically through the use of benzodiazepines.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Heroin** - Heroin intoxication could explain the altered mental status and miosis in this patient. However, it most commonly induces respiratory depression, bradycardia, and hypotension, while the opposite is seen in this patient. Withdrawal from opiates, however, could present with hypertension and tachycardia in an agitated patient, but would also lead to mydriasis. Furthermore, it would not cause nystagmus.

**B - Alcohol** - Alcohol use disorder is very common, with a peak incidence in individuals 21–34 years of age. Intoxication with alcohol could explain the impaired cognition, disinhibited behavior, nystagmus, and mild tachycardia in this patient. However, it would not be consistent with this patient's tachypnea, since it usually leads to respiratory depression, or miosis. Other symptoms of alcohol intoxication include slurred speech and impaired coordination, which are absent here. Given the alcoholic smell noted on this patient, it is likely that he has recently consumed an alcoholic beverage, but a different substance would better account for his entire constellation of symptoms.

**C - Marijuana** - Marijuana could explain the mild tachycardia, increased blood pressure, and the altered mental state seen in this patient. However, intoxication with this substance typically leads to joviality or anxiety, red eyes with mydriasis (not miosis), increased appetite, and dry mouth. It would be unlikely to cause this level of agitation.

**D - Cocaine** - Cocaine intoxication could explain the tachycardia, hypertension, and agitation seen in this patient. However, it would also likely cause nausea, diaphoresis, or chest pain, which are not seen in this patient. Furthermore, cocaine use is associated with mydriasis, not miosis, and it does not cause nystagmus.

**E - Gamma-hydroxybutyric acid** - Low doses of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid cause intensification of experience, a sense of well-being, and increased desire to make contact. Intoxication with the substance results in lightheadedness and loss of consciousness and may induce amnesia for the time of intoxication. It also presents with diaphoresis and agitation, but would not explain the aggressive behavior, miosis, or nystagmus seen in this patient.

**F - Lysergic acid diethylamide** - LSD works primarily via serotonin and dopamine receptor activation and causes optical hallucinations, flashbacks, illusions, depersonalization, and flight of ideas. While it could explain the confusion, tachycardia, and hypertension seen in this patient, it would not typically cause aggression, nystagmus, or miosis.

**G - Methamphetamine** - Intoxication with methamphetamine, a sympathomimetic drug, would lead to tachycardia, hypertension, psychosis (typically euphoria, grandiosity), and, in some cases, violent behavior. However, it would also likely present with diaphoresis, bruxism, and mydriasis, not miosis, making ingestion of this substance unlikely.

