### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Ectopic pregnancy** - Fallopian tube scarring is a common complication of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), regardless of etiology, that increases the risk for ectopic pregnancy and can lead to infertility. Other complications of PID include chronic pelvic pain and Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome. C. trachomatis infections are typically diagnosed with nucleic acid amplification tests, e.g., PCR.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Trophoblastic neoplasia** - Trophoblastic neoplasias include hydatidiform moles (complete and partial) and choriocarcinoma, which are characterized by abnormal proliferation of trophoblastic tissue. Neither chlamydia infection nor PID is associated with the development of these neoplasias.

**B - Cervical cancer** - Cervical cancer is strongly associated with HPV infection, not Chlamydia trachomatis infection. Unprotected intercourse, which likely led to this patient's PID, increases the risk of infection with HPV. Cervical cancer rates in women who have had PID are higher than the general population, but this is likely due to increased rates of HPV infection and not due to the effect of PID.

**C - Endometriosis** - The etiology of endometriosis seems to be multifactorial. Retrograde menstruation, lymphogenic and hematogenic dissemination of endometrial cells, changes in immunity and endocrine signaling, and genetic factors may all play a role in the pathogenesis of endometriosis. This woman's nulliparity increases her risk of endometriosis, but chlamydial infection and PID are not known risk factors for developing endometriosis.

**D - Aortic root dilatation** - Aortic root dilatation is associated with tertiary syphilis, which results from infection with Treponema pallidum. The risk factors are similar for the development of syphilis and PID (i.e., sexual transmission, unprotected intercourse). However, the initial manifestations of syphilis are chancre and lymphadenopathy (primary syphilis), which are not present in this patient. Additionally, infection with Treponema pallidum does not cause cervical tenderness or discharge.

**E - Purulent arthritis** - Purulent arthritis is a complication of disseminated N. gonorrhoeae infection. While N. gonorrhoeae is a relatively common cause of PID, it does not show up on Giemsa stain and was absent on Gram staining in this case. Reactive arthritis is a complication of Chlamydia trachomatis infection, but it does not cause purulence within the joint and is typically associated with conjunctivitis and urethritis, which are not seen in this patient.

