### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Endometrial cancer** - This patient most likely has polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), which is characterized by hyperandrogenism, oligoovulation/anovulation, and the presence of polycystic ovaries on ultrasound. Chronic anovulation results in prolonged unopposed (by progesterone) estrogen exposure of the endometrium, which increases the risk of endometrial hyperplasia and endometrial carcinoma.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Choriocarcinoma** - Choriocarcinoma is a rare type of gestational trophoblastic disease that only develops after fertilization and implantation of the egg. This patient with PCOS actually has a lower risk of developing choriocarcinoma, as chronic anovulation is a hallmark of the disease, which renders the patient infertile

**C - Thyroid lymphoma** - Thyroid lymphoma is a complication of Hashimoto's thyroiditis, which is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in the US. Although hypothyroidism would explain this patient's obesity and menstrual irregularities, the absence of additional features, such as fatigue, cold intolerance, dry skin, hair loss, loss of appetite, and constipation, make a thyroid disorder unlikely. Hypothyroidism would also not cause this patient's hirsutism, cystic acne, and enlarged irregular ovaries.

**D - Cervical cancer** - Cervical cancer is strongly associated with HPV infection and the incidence and mortality of cervical cancer in developed countries have significantly declined since the introduction of routine Papanicolaou (Pap) smear screening. There is insufficient evidence to confirm that PCOS is associated with an increased risk of cervical cancer.

**E - Osteoporosis** - Osteoporosis most commonly affects postmenopausal women due to a decline in the protective effect of estrogen on bone after menopause. Less common causes of osteoporosis include hypercortisolism, chronic alcohol abuse, and immobilization. Hypercortisolism can also present with obesity, hirsutism, acne, and irregular menstrual cycles. However, this patient has no other characteristic features for Cushing's syndrome (e.g., thinning skin, hyperpigmentation in sun exposed areas, sleep disturbance, depression, and hypertension) and physical exam shows enlarged, irregular ovaries, making another diagnosis more likely.

**F - Proximal myopathy** - The catabolic effect of hypercortisolism on protein metabolism in Cushing's syndrome can result in muscle atrophy and weakness that is most pronounced in the proximal muscles. Cushing's syndrome can also present with obesity, hirsutism, acne, and irregular menstrual cycles. However, this patient has no other characteristic features for Cushing's syndrome (e.g., thinning skin, hyperpigmentation in sun exposed areas, sleep disturbance, depression, and hypertension) and physical exam shows enlarged, irregular ovaries, making another diagnosis more likely.

**G - Diplopia and headaches** - Diplopia and headaches are suggestive of a pituitary mass compressing the optic chiasm. Prolactinomas are the most common pituitary adenomas and result in hyperprolactinemia that leads to menstrual irregularities. However, they would also cause galactorrhea and menopausal symptoms (e.g., atrophic endometrium and vaginal atrophy) due to reduced estrogen levels, which are absent in this patient. Hirsutism, acne, and obesity, as seen in this patient, would not be expected in patients with prolactinomas.

**H - Breast cancer** - Although PCOS is associated with prolonged estrogen exposure (due to anovulatory cycles and nulliparity), which is a known risk factor for the development of breast cancer, studies were unable to confirm an increased risk of breast cancer in patients with PCOS.

