### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Ziprasidone** - In addition to hospitalization, a second generation antipsychotic (SGA), such as ziprasidone or risperidone, should be used to treat this patient's acute psychotic episode. In contrast to first generation antipsychotics, which antagonize only D2 receptors, SGAs antagonize the 5HT2A and D2 receptors, which results in effective treatment of psychosis with a lower risk of extrapyramidal syndrome or neuroleptic malignant syndrome.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Haloperidol** - Haloperidol is a high-potency first generation antipsychotic (FGA) that is used to treat psychosis and would be an effective agent to treat this patient in the acute and long-term setting. However, like all FGAs, haloperidol is associated with a high risk of significant side effects (e.g., extrapyramidal syndrome, neuroleptic malignant syndrome) and should not be considered as a first-line treatment. Haloperidol is commonly used for acute agitation in patients with psychosis, whereas this patient is redirectable and follows commands appropriately. Therefore, haloperidol is not indicated at this time.

**B - Alprazolam** - Benzodiazepines, such as alprazolam, are often given in combination with an antipsychotic to treat acute psychosis and agitation, as seen in this patient. However, they do not suffice as an antipsychotic treatment on their own. Furthermore, alprazolam is short acting, and long-acting benzodiazepines (e.g. lorazepam) are preferred.

**C - Dexmedetomidine** - Dexmedetomidine is a central α2-agonist commonly used in ICU settings to achieve light to moderate sedation. This patient's agitation is of concern, but can be addressed after his psychosis has been properly dealt with. In addition, the sedation generally required to alleviate the agitation in acute psychotic episodes is better achieved with benzodiazepines because of their quick-acting and easily reversible effects.

**D - Valproic acid** - Valproic acid is an anticonvulsant and antimanic medication that can be used for mood stabilization. Although this patient has signs of mild mania (flight of ideas, pressured speech), which would benefit from treatment with valproic acid, the more pressing concern is his acute psychosis, for which this drug would be ineffective.

