### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - HPV vaccination** - As a part of the routine immunization schedule, the CDC states that 2 doses of HPV vaccine should be administered 6 months apart to all individuals 9–14 years of age. Otherwise, for all unvaccinated female patients 15–26 years of age, the CDC recommends vaccination with 3 doses of nine-valent HPV vaccine. Although the FDA has approved the HPV vaccine for patients up to age 45, it is not routinely recommended for patients > 26 years old by the CDC.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Pap smear** - For women between 21 and 29 years of age, the USPSTF recommends a Pap smear every 3 years. Since this patient had a normal Pap smear 13 months ago, another Pap smear would not be required for nearly another 2 years.

**C - Syphilis testing** - Definitive indications for a syphilis screening test (VDRL or RPR test) in the absence of clinical features of syphilis include pregnancy, men who have sex with men, and patients with a positive HIV test. None of these indications apply to this patient.

**D - Mammography** - The incidence of breast cancer in women below the age of 30 is extremely low and interpretation of mammograms in this age bracket is often not feasible because breast tissue is denser in younger women. According to the USPSTF, women should start breast cancer screening at the age of 50 with a mammogram every 2 years until the age of 74. Because this patient has a first-degree relative with breast cancer, the USPSTF recommends screening mammography at the age of 40 years. Note that these recommendations differ somewhat from the ACS and ACOG guidelines, which can be studied in more detail under “Breast cancer screening.” Regardless, if the information required to determine the correct option for NBME questions is associated with a discrepancy between screening guidelines, we recommend following USPSTF guidelines.

**E - Pregnancy test** - The most common indication for a pregnancy test is recent-onset secondary amenorrhea in a patient of child-bearing age. Because her last menstrual period was 6 days ago, this patient does not have amenorrhea. If this 24-year-old woman had acute lower abdominal pain, a pregnancy test would be indicated to rule out an ectopic pregnancy. However, there is currently no indication for performing a pregnancy test in this asymptomatic patient presenting for a routine pelvic examination.

**F - Cotesting in 1 year** - Cotesting refers to simultaneous Pap smear and HPV testing. It is the USPSTF's recommended cervical cancer screening of choice for women between 30 and 65 years of age every 5 years. In this 24-year-old patient, the USPSTF instead recommends a Pap smear every 3 years. Unfortunately, cancer screening recommendations can be confusing because the USPSTF guidelines differ from the recently updated ASCCP/ACS/ACOG guidelines, which recommend women aged 25–65 years should undergo cervical cancer screening with primary HPV testing (preferred where available) every 5 years, cotesting (HPV testing and Pap smear) every 5 years, or a solitary Pap smear every 3 years. But this patient is not yet 25 years old and also had a normal Pap smear 13 months ago. Regardless, if the information required to determine the correct option for NBME questions is associated with a discrepancy between screening guidelines, we recommend following USPSTF guidelines.

**G - HPV testing** - HPV testing and simultaneous Pap smear, known as cotesting, is recommended by the USPSTF for cervical cancer screening for patients who are 30–65 years of age every 5 years. An HPV test may also be performed for patients with atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ASC-US) on exfoliative cytology in order to determine whether colposcopy is required. Unfortunately, cancer screening recommendations can be confusing because the USPSTF guidelines differ from the recently updated ASCCP/ACS/ACOG guidelines, which recommend women aged 25–65 years should undergo cervical cancer screening with primary HPV testing alone (preferred where available) every 5 years, cotesting (HPV testing and Pap smear) every 5 years, or a solitary Pap smear every 3 years. But this patient is not yet 25 years old and also had a normal Pap smear 13 months ago. Regardless, if the information required to determine the correct option for NBME questions is associated with a discrepancy between screening guidelines, we recommend following USPSTF guidelines.

