### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Perform familial risk assessment using a questionnaire** - Family risk assessment with a standardized questionnaire is the most appropriate next step for this patient who has a first-degree relative with ovarian cancer. The USPSTF recommends that women who have family members with breast, ovarian, tubal, or peritoneal cancer or who have a personal history of these types of cancer undergo such an assessment, which can guide whether or not to refer for genetic counseling. Risk factors for ovarian cancer include a family history of ovarian or breast cancer, family history of hereditary cancer syndromes (e.g., BRCA1 mutation, BRCA2 mutation, Lynch syndrome), and Ashkenazi Jewish descent.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Recommend bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy** - Risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy may be recommended for individuals who have a hereditary cancer syndrome (e.g., BRCA1 mutation, BRCA2 mutation, Lynch syndrome) and no longer wish to have children. This patient's risk for ovarian cancer has not yet been evaluated.

**C - Recommend barrier contraception instead of oral contraceptive therapy** - Long-term combined oral contraceptive therapy decreases the risk of developing ovarian cancer and therefore should be continued in this patient. Though there are contraindications to this therapy (e.g., high risk for cardiovascular disease, known thrombogenic mutations, history of migraines with aura), this patient does not have any of them.

**D - Recommend annual transvaginal ultrasonography and measurement of serum CA-125 concentration** - Annual transvaginal ultrasonography and measurement of serum CA-125 concentration were previously recommended to screen for ovarian cancer. However, most guidelines no longer recommend these screening tests because of their low specificity and lack of survival benefit in the general population.

**E - Perform genetic testing for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations** - According to USPSTF recommendations, genetic screening for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations should be considered in patients with a positive family history of ovarian cancer associated with BRCA mutations. Although this patient's mother developed ovarian cancer, it is not known whether she also had an associated BRCA mutation. Another step in management is more appropriate before proceeding to genetic testing.

