### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - No specific health maintenance recommendation is needed** - No specific health maintenance recommendation is needed at this time for this 61-year-old woman who is currently up to date with all recommended screening tests based on her age, history, and physical examination findings. The recommendations that this patient has followed include screening for cervical cancer (i.e., Pap smear and human papillomavirus testing every 5 years), colon cancer (i.e., colonoscopy every 10 years), and breast cancer (i.e., with mammography every 1–2 years). Moreover, she does not have identifiable risk factors for cardiovascular disease (e.g., history of diabetes, hypertension, or smoking) or osteoporosis (e.g., family history of hip fracture, smoking, alcohol consumption, low BMI).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Mammography** - For women with an average risk for breast cancer (i.e., no positive family history, no known BRCA gene mutation, no previous breast cancer), recommendations for when to start and how often to obtain screening mammography vary. The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends routine mammograms every 2 years in women 50–74 years of age; the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists recommends routine mammograms every 1–2 years starting by no later than 50 years of age. This patient had a normal mammography 10 months ago, so she does not require further screening at this time.

**B - Serum lipid profile** - Recommendations for routine screening for lipid disorders vary; the decision to screen should be based on shared decision-making and an assessment of the patient's overall risk for cardiovascular disease. This patient had a normal serum lipid profile 3 years ago and has no significant risk factors for cardiovascular disease (e.g., history of diabetes, hypertension, or smoking). A repeat serum lipid profile is not indicated at this time.

**C - Colonoscopy** - The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening for colorectal cancer in all asymptomatic adults between 45 and 75 years of age who have an average risk (e.g., no inflammatory bowel disease, adenomatous polyps, or family history of an inherited cancer syndrome). Colonoscopy every 10 years is an appropriate strategy. Individuals with a first-degree relative (FDR) with a history of colorectal cancer, like this patient, are generally recommended to obtain screening more frequently (every 5 years) and start earlier (40 years of age or 10 years before the youngest FDR's age at diagnosis). Because her last colonoscopy 4 years ago was normal and she lacks symptoms suggestive of colorectal cancer (e.g., weight loss, hematochezia), she does not require repeat screening at this time.

**D - Dual-energy x-ray bone absorptiometry** - The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening women ≥ 65 years of age for osteoporosis with bone measurement testing (e.g., dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry). For postmenopausal women < 65 years of age, the decision to screen should be based on an assessment of the patient's overall risk for osteoporosis. This patient has no significant risk factors for osteoporosis (e.g., family history of hip fracture, smoking, alcohol consumption, low BMI), so screening is not indicated at this time.

**F - Pap smear** - The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening women between 30 and 65 years of age for cervical cancer using any of the following strategies: every 3 years with cervical cytology, every 5 years with testing for high-risk human papillomavirus (hrHPV) testing, or every 5 years with hrHPV testing in combination with cytology. This patient had a normal Pap smear with testing for human papillomavirus 2 years ago, so she does not require further screening at this time.

