### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Galactocele** - Galactoceles manifest as firm, nontender masses in the subareolar region that are commonly seen in women who are lactating, as seen here. They frequently occur after the cessation of breastfeeding, as milk becomes stagnant and collects in the milk ducts. An ultrasound typically shows a complex mass with variable echogenicity, as the ratio of fat and water content inside the galactocele varies. Most galactoceles resolve spontaneously and patients are at no increased risk for breast cancer. Persistent symptomatic galactoceles may be managed with needle aspiration or surgical excision. A galactocele is not a contraindication to breastfeeding and mothers should be encouraged to continue breastfeeding, if possible.

Image File: 859-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_611cf99eed709.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Fibroadenoma** - Fibroadenoma, the most common benign breast tumor in women < 35 years of age, may manifest as a well-defined, solitary, mobile, nontender mass, with intact skin and no lymphadenopathy, all of which are seen in this patient. An increase in estrogen levels (e.g., during pregnancy or hormonal therapy) may lead to enlargement of fibroadenomas. In this patient, however, estrogen levels are likely low because she is still amenorrheic and only recently stopped breastfeeding. Moreover, ultrasound would show a homogeneous mass rather than the heterogeneous mass seen here.

Image File: 859-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589d8f24a870d.jpg

**C - Intraductal papilloma** - Intraductal papilloma may manifest as a palpable subareolar mass. However, intraductal papillomas are more common in women 40–50 years of age and are not associated with pregnancy or lactation. Furthermore, ultrasound typically shows a dilated duct with soft tissue echoes within the duct, and additional expected findings include bloody, serous nipple discharge, none of which are seen here.

**D - Fat necrosis of the breast** - Fat necrosis of the breast may manifest as a nontender breast mass. This patient's job as a fitness instructor might have resulted in breast trauma, a common cause of fat necrosis of the breast. However, a well-demarcated, moderately heterogeneous mass with echogenic walls on ultrasound is not consistent with fat necrosis of the breast, which is more likely to manifest as a fluid-filled oil cyst with coarse rim calcifications.

**E - Mammary duct ectasia** - Mammary duct ectasia may manifest with a firm subareolar mass. However, mammary duct ectasia is more commonly seen in perimenopausal women and is, therefore, unlikely in this 34-year-old patient. Moreover, additional expected findings in mammary duct ectasia include unilateral creamy discharge, nipple inversion, pain, and dilated ducts on ultrasound, none of which are present in this patient.

