### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Bupropion** - Bupropion, which inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine and dopamine, is an atypical antidepressant without sexual side effects and therefore a viable alternative for patients with MDD, who experience sexual dysfunction due to SSRIs. Side effects of bupropion include reduction of the seizure threshold, tachycardia, insomnia, and headache. Bupropion is also used to treat tobacco dependence.

Mirtazapine, which increases the release of norepinephrine and serotonin by blocking the α2 adrenergic receptor, is another atypical antidepressant drug that does not cause sexual dysfunction and can be used in patients with insomnia or anorexia.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Venlafaxine** - Venlafaxine is a selective serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor that is used for the treatment of major depressive disorder and generalized anxiety disorder. It has a similar side effect profile as SSRIs, including sexual dysfunction, nausea, dry mouth, headache, and serotonin syndrome (when used with other serotonergic drugs). Hence, it is not the right drug choice for this patient.

**B - Citalopram** - Citalopram is, like fluoxetine, an SSRI that may, therefore, cause sexual dysfunction. Hence, it is not the right choice of drug for this patient. Other side effects of SSRIs such as citalopram include nausea, SIADH, and serotonin syndrome (when used with other serotonergic drugs).

**C - Tranylcypromine** - Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) such as tranylcypromine can be used for treatment-refractory depression with atypical features (e.g., mood reactivity, hypersomnia, hyperphagia, leaden paralysis, interpersonal rejection sensitivity). MAOIs are not used as first- or even second-line drugs to treat MDD without atypical features due to side effects such as drug interactions and hypertensive crisis following ingestion of tyramine-rich food (e.g., aged cheese).

**D - Trazodone** - Trazodone is a 5-HT2 serotonin antagonist that is sometimes used as an adjunct to other antidepressants for the treatment of insomnia associated with depression. However, it is not indicated as monotherapy for major depressive disorder and therefore is not the right drug choice for this patient. Trazodone is not associated with sexual dysfunction, but priapism, orthostatic hypotension, and sedation are known side effects.

