### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Acyclovir therapy** - Acyclovir is the treatment for genital herpes, which is caused by herpes simplex virus (typically type 2). If initial therapy is unsuccessful (due to resistance), topical imiquimod may be considered. (See table in “Genital lesions” for differentials.)

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Curettage** - Curettage is used to treat warts (caused by human papilloma virus) but not genital herpes. Genital warts can be transmitted sexually but present as painless papular growths and are not associated with tender lymphadenopathy, multiple painful shallow ulcers, or malaise, making this diagnosis very unlikely. Additionally, if this patient received a tetravalent or 9-valent vaccine regimen prior to potential infection, she would likely be immune to the HPV types (primarily 6 and 11) that cause genital warts.

**C - Azithromycin therapy** - Azithromycin is commonly used in treatment of sexually transmitted infections like gonorrhea, chlamydia, and chancroid. Gonorrhea and chlamydia are commonly asymptomatic, but if they are symptomatic they present with vaginal discharge and pelvic pain rather than skin lesions and lymphadenopathy. Chancroid is caused by Haemophilus ducreyi and presents as multiple, painful papules or pustules, 1–2 cm in size with a greyish necrotic base and purulent exudates. Any of the three can also present with tender inguinal lymphadenopathy, but none would explain this girl's shallow ulcers on an erythematous base.

**D - Doxycycline therapy** - Doxycycline can be used to treat both syphilitic and chlamydial infections but not genital herpes. L1–L3 serovars of Chlamydia trachomatis cause lymphogranuloma venereum, which presents initially with a painless papule that resolves and then causes suppurative lymphadenopathy 2–6 weeks later. Treponema pallidum is responsible for syphilis, which presents in the primary stage as a painless round and firm ulcer with no lymph node involvement. Neither syphilis nor LGV are associated with multiple painful shallow ulcers, making them unlikely diagnoses.

**E - Penicillin therapy** - Benzathine penicillin is effective against Treponema pallidum, the causative agent of syphilis. The primary stage of syphilis presents as a painless round ulcer called chancre that is typically a solitary lesion but can occasionally present with multiple lesions or bilateral lymphadenopathy. However, the lesion is generally painless.

