### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Perform nucleic acid amplification testing for chlamydia and gonorrhea** - The USPSTF recommends screening for N. gonorrhoeae and C. trachomatis infections in sexually active women < 24 years of age, such as this patient, and in older women with specific risk factors (e.g., women with new or multiple sex partners). N. gonorrhoeae and C. trachomatis infections are often asymptomatic in women but can result in complications such as pelvic inflammatory disease and infertility. Screening consists of nucleic acid amplification tests of the urine, which have both high sensitivity and specificity for these infections. Although there is not a defined screening interval, it is reasonable to repeat the screening in women with new or persistent risk factors.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - No further evaluation is necessary** - This woman meets the criteria identified by the USPSTF for the screening of a condition that is common among individuals in her age group and should receive testing at this time.

**B - Obtain urine culture** - In asymptomatic patients, urine culture is only recommended by the USPSTF for the screening of asymptomatic bacteriuria in pregnant individuals. Asymptomatic bacteriuria does not usually result in symptomatic infection, so the USPSTF recommends against this screening in nonpregnant adults. Screening may result in overtreatment, increasing the risk of patients developing adverse effects from antibiotic therapy and raising the risk of emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.

**C - Measure serum CA-125 concentration** - Serum CA-125 concentration can be used in the evaluation of a patient with an adnexal mass or to monitor disease progression or recurrence of treatment in patients with ovarian cancer. Although this patient has a first-degree relative with ovarian cancer, which thereby increases her risk of developing ovarian cancer, serum CA-125 concentration measurement is not recommended for screening of ovarian cancer in asymptomatic patients. Patients with a high-risk family history should rather be referred to genetic counseling.

**D - Perform high-risk human papillomavirus testing** - The USPSTF recommends cervical cancer screening with high-risk HPV testing (hrHPV test) every 5 years in all women > 30 years of age; the American Cancer Society recommends primary HPV testing every 5 years for women 25–65 years of age. In young women, HPV infections tend to be transient and resolve without treatment, and testing in this age group results in a considerable false-positive rate, which can lead to unnecessary invasive procedures (e.g., cervical biopsy, loop excision, conization). In women younger than 21 years old, such as this patient, the USPSTF recommends against cervical cancer screening as the harms outweigh the benefits.

**F - Perform PAP smear** - The USPSTF recommends cervical cancer screening by PAP smear every 3 years for all women between 21 and 65 years of age. In women younger than 21 years old, such as this patient, cervical cancer is rare and screening might result in false-positive results, which may lead to unnecessary invasive procedures (e.g., cervical biopsy, loop excision, conization). Some of these procedures increase the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes (e.g., preterm delivery). Because evidence shows that the harms of cervical cancer screening in women younger than 21 years of age outweigh the benefits, the USPSTF recommends against screening in this age group.

