### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Prednisone** - This patient's clinical features (dry cough, weight loss, fatigue, lymphadenopathy), CT scan findings (pronounced bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy), and biopsy findings (epitheloid histiocytes and multinucleated giant cells without necrosis, which describes noncaseating granulomas) are diagnostic for sarcoidosis. The first-line treatment in patients with symptomatic pulmonary sarcoidosis consists of glucocorticoids, e.g., prednisone. After an intensive daily steroid regimen for a period of 6 months, steroids are then tapered to a low dose for long-term use. Glucocorticoids provide symptomatic relief and improve pulmonary function. Other agents, e.g., methotrexate, can be used in patients with contraindications to steroids or severe adverse effects, or in those who do not respond to glucocorticoids.

Image File: 869-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dfa3cb4e09c8.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cisplatin** - Cisplatin is a chemotherapeutic agent commonly used in the treatment of lung cancers, which can manifest with a nonproductive cough, weight loss, and lymphadenopathy. However, lung cancers are most commonly associated with a history of smoking, which is not present in this patient. In addition, lung cancers usually appear as solitary masses on CT scan, and biopsy findings would show dysplastic cancer cells.

**B - Lamivudine** - Lamivudine is a component of HAART for HIV, which can manifest with weight loss, cough, and lymphadenopathy. However, biopsy findings in HIV-associated lymphadenopathy would show predominantly reactive hyperplasia with no evidence of histiocytes or granulomatous inflammation. Furthermore, this patient has no risk factors for HIV infection (e.g., a history of unprotected sexual intercourse, commercial sex work, or intravenous drug abuse).

**C - Azithromycin** - Azithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic commonly used to treat community-acquired pneumonia, which can manifest with constitutional symptoms and cough. However, symptoms would be short-lived and would not continue for 6 months, as seen in this patient. CT scan would show areas of consolidation, while biopsy would show features of acute inflammation and bacteria. Azithromycin is also used in the treatment of Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) infections, which can manifest with the symptoms seen in this patient and also show noncaseating granulomatous inflammation. However, MAC infection would be unusual in a nonimmunosuppressed patient and would not cause bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy, making it an unlikely diagnosis.

**D - Isoniazid** - Isoniazid is an antibiotic that is used in the treatment of tuberculosis (TB). While TB can manifest with cough, lymphadenopathy, and constitutional symptoms (e.g., fever, weight loss, fatigue), the cough is usually productive. Furthermore, cavitary lung lesions are more common than significant hilar lymphadenopathy. Most importantly, biopsy findings would show caseating granulomas (i.e., granulomas with central necrosis) rather than epithelioid histiocytes and multinucleated giant cells without focal necrosis.

**E - Bleomycin** - Bleomycin is a chemotherapeutic agent that is part of the regimen used to manage Hodgkin lymphoma. While Hodgkin lymphoma can manifest with lymphadenopathy, weight loss, and B symptoms (fever, night sweats, and weight loss), biopsy findings would show Reed-Sternberg cells rather than epitheloid histiocytes and multinucleated giant cells.

**F - Cyclophosphamide** - Cyclophosphamide is the drug of choice in the management of granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA), which can manifest with constitutional symptoms (e.g., fever, weight loss, fatigue) and pulmonary involvement. However, biopsy findings in GPA would show necrotizing granulomatous inflammation rather than epithelioid histiocytes and multinucleated giant cells without focal necrosis.

Cyclophosphamide is sometimes also used for the treatment of sarcoidosis. However, it is typically reserved for patients with severe symptomatic disease who do not respond to first-line treatment or for extrapulmonary forms of sarcoidosis such as neurosarcoidosis and would thus not be part of the initial medication regimen in this patient.

