### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Urine chloride concentration** - Measurement of urine chloride concentration is useful to determine the etiology of metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis associated with a normal urine chloride concentration (< 25 mmol/L) is referred to as chloride-responsive metabolic alkalosis because it corrects with the administration of fluid with NaCl. It is often secondary to volume depletion through vomiting or loop diuretic use. In contrast, metabolic alkalosis associated with an elevated urine chloride concentration (> 40 mmol/L) is referred to as chloride-resistant metabolic alkalosis, as it does not correct with the administration of chloride-containing fluid. It is often secondary to underlying conditions, such as primary hyperaldosteronism or Cushing syndrome, and is associated with increased extracellular volume and hypertension.

This patient most likely has contraction alkalosis secondary to vomiting and therefore a normal urine chloride concentration would be expected.

Image File: 872-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d65489d19db4.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Serum osmolal gap** - The serum osmolal gap is useful in determining the etiology of high anion gap metabolic acidosis, especially when toxic alcohol ingestion (ethanol, methanol, or ethylene glycol) may have occurred. Measuring the serum osmolal gap does not help to determine the cause or guide the management of metabolic alkalosis.

**B - Urine anion gap** - The urine anion gap is measured as a proxy for urinary excretion of NH4+, which is a measure of renal acidification. It is useful in determining whether a normal anion gap metabolic acidosis is caused by inadequate renal acidification of urine. Measuring the urine anion gap does not help to determine the cause or guide the management of metabolic alkalosis.

**C - Serum anion gap** - The serum anion gap is measured when determining the cause of metabolic acidosis. Measuring the serum anion gap does not help to determine the cause or guide the management of metabolic alkalosis.

**D - Urine albumin to urine creatinine ratio** - The urine albumin to creatinine ratio (UACR) is used to identify glomerular damage and screen for increased risk of kidney disease. Diseases that damage the glomerulus (e.g., diabetes and hypertension) cause excess excretion of albumin, which raises the UACR. Measuring the UACR does not help to determine the cause or guide the management of metabolic alkalosis.

