### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Cooking meat to 71째C (160째F)** - Trichinella spiralis causes trichinellosis and is typically acquired via ingestion of raw or undercooked meat from infected animals (e.g., bears), which contains encysted larvae. Following ingestion, larvae are released, invading the small bowel mucosa and then developing into adult worms. Adult worms migrate to muscles, where they encyst, causing the symptoms observed in this patient. This patient most likely consumed undercooked meat from animals hunted during his trip. Cooking meat to 71째C (160째F) kills any potential larvae in contaminated meat, preventing infection with Trichinella spiralis.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Clean drinking water** - Clean drinking water is important for preventing many causes of food poisoning (e.g., Escherichia coli, Giardia lamblia, norovirus). However, this patient presents with symptoms suggestive of an infection with Trichinella spiralis, a parasite that is not transmitted through contaminated water.

**C - Prednisone therapy** - Prednisone may be used for the treatment of a variety of autoimmune conditions including dermatomyositis, which may also present with myalgia, muscle weakness, raised creatine kinase, and may occur in familial clusters. However, dermatomyositis typically presents with proximal muscle weakness affecting both sides of the body and many cutaneous manifestations such as Gottron papules, a heliotrope rash, midfacial erythema, and shawl sign, which are missing in this patient. Also, the peak incidence is around 50 years of age, and women are twice as commonly affected as men.

**D - Influenza vaccine** - The influenza vaccine is an annual shot that is recommended for all persons aged 6 months and older. This patient presents with muscle pain, fever, and chills, which may resemble infection with an influenza virus. However, the patient also presents with periorbital edema, eosinophilia, and raised creatine kinase, which make the diagnosis of an influenza less likely. There is no vaccination available that protects against trichinellosis.

**E - Consume pasteurized dairy products** - The consumption of pasteurized dairy products is important for preventing infection with, e.g., Listeria monocytogenes. L. monocytogenes causes listeriosis, which can also cause fever, diarrhea, and muscle aches. However, severe myositis and periorbital edema are no typical findings in listeriosis and this patient's eosinophilia indicates parasitosis, not a bacterial infection. Trichinella spiralis is not transmitted through the consumption of unpasteurized dairy products.

**F - Metronidazole at the onset of diarrhea** - Metronidazole is an antibiotic that is effective in treating parasites (e.g., Giardia lamblia) and anaerobic bacteria (e.g., Clostridioides difficile), which may also cause fever and diarrhea. However, this patient presents with many symptoms in addition to diarrhea, suggesting an infection with Trichinella spiralis (roundworms). Roundworms can be treated with anthelmintic agents such as albendazole and mebendazole. Antibiotics such as metronidazole are not effective.

