### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Thoracic aortic aneurysm** - Approximately 10–20% of patients with giant cell arteritis (GCA) will have involvement of the thoracic aorta, which significantly increases the risk of thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections. The median time between the diagnosis of GCA and thoracic aortic aneurysm is about 10 years. Some medical centers use serial chest x-rays or CT/MR angiography to screen for aortic aneurysms. However, routine screening for large vessel involvement is not generally recommended in patients with GCA because there is limited evidence that it positively affects patient outcomes.

Image File: 876-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6040ff5ae97f9.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Myocardial infarction** - Giant cell arteritis (GCA) primarily causes inflammation of medium to large blood vessels. In rare cases, it can also cause coronary arteritis, which may manifest with myocardial infarction (MI). Although patients with GCA have a slightly elevated relative risk of MI compared to the general population, MI is a rare complication of this disease.

**C - Rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis** - Rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis is a known complication of certain types of vasculitis, including granulomatosis with polyangiitis and microscopic polyangiitis. Giant cell arteritis (GCA), however, primarily causes inflammation of medium to large blood vessels and does not usually affect the kidneys.

**D - Internal carotid artery stenosis** - Vision loss associated with giant cell arteritis (GCA) is caused by inflammation of branches of the internal carotid artery (e.g., posterior ciliary arterial branches of the ophthalmic artery) but stenosis of the internal carotid artery is a rare complication of this disease. In addition, GCA is more commonly associated with occlusion of branches of the external carotid artery.

**E - Pulmonary artery hypertension** - Pulmonary hypertension can develop in diffuse systemic sclerosis, a condition that usually manifests with Raynaud phenomenon, cutaneous findings such as sclerodactyly, and inner organ involvement (e.g., dysmotility of the gastrointestinal tract, cardiac disease, renal disease). Because GCA involves medium to large blood vessels, the pulmonary vessels are not typically involved.

