### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Situational syncope** - Situational syncope is one type of neurally-mediated reflex syncope. In patients with situational syncopes, triggers such as cough, swallowing, or micturition (as seen in this patient) result in parasympathetic hyperactivity, which in turn leads to peripheral vascular dilation and/or bradycardia. Vasodilation and bradycardia result in hypotension and reduced cerebral perfusion, causing the patient to lose consciousness.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cardiovascular syncope** - Cardiovascular syncope is caused by a structural outflow obstruction (e.g., aortic stenosis, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, pulmonary embolism). The outflow obstruction prevents the heart from meeting an increased oxygen demand (e.g., during exertion) and thus in reduced cerebral perfusion with loss of consciousness. This patient has no history of structural heart disease and has no abnormal findings on cardiac examination or on electrocardiogram, making cardiovascular syncope unlikely.

**C - Emotional syncope** - Triggers of emotional syncope include pain as well as emotional stress (e.g., fear, the sight of blood, or injury). Emotional syncope is often preceded by prodromal symptoms of pallor, warmth, diaphoresis, lightheadedness, or hyperventilation, which are absent in this patient. This patient was not exposed to any of these potential triggers before losing consciousness and did not experience any prodromal symptoms, making this type of syncope unlikely.

**D - Neurocardiogenic syncope** - Neurocardiogenic syncope is a form of reflex syncope that is triggered by prolonged standing in the absence of sufficient compensatory heart rate acceleration. This type of syncope is common in younger patients and can be recurrent. It would be unusual to have the first episode after the age of 40.

**E - Arrhythmogenic syncope** - Cardiac arrhythmias are a possible cause of syncopal episodes. Both bradycardia and tachycardia may lead to insufficient cardiac output and thus low cerebral perfusion. However, cardiac arrhythmia is less likely given that electrocardiogram findings are normal and the patient has no previous history of heart disease or symptoms consistent with arrhythmia (e.g., palpitations, dyspnea on exertion, chest pain, or diaphoresis).

