### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Hyperbaric oxygen therapy** - Patients with suspected carbon monoxide poisoning are generally treated with 100% oxygen via a nonrebreather mask. However, hyperbaric oxygen therapy is indicated to accelerate the elimination of COHb if any of the following are present: COHb > 25% (or > 15% in a pregnant woman), neurological manifestations (e.g., confusion, loss of consciousness, seizures, focal neurological deficits), ECG changes or clinical features of acute myocardial ischemia (e.g., chest pain), and severe acidosis (pH < 7.1).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous hydroxycobalamin** - Hydroxycobalamin is a cyanide-binding agent used to treat cyanide poisoning. Although patients with cyanide poisoning may present with altered mental status, headache, and nausea, cyanide poisoning is usually associated with vehicular fires, fires at plastics and rubber manufacturing factories, mining, and prolonged administration of sodium nitroprusside.

**B - Intravenous nitroprusside** - Intravenous nitroprusside is indicated for decreasing blood pressure in patients with a hypertensive emergency, which may result in acute deterioration with headache, nausea, and confusion. However, an acute deterioration due to hypertension is usually seen in patients when blood pressure is > 180/120 mm Hg and/or if intracranial hemorrhage occurs. This patient has a blood pressure of 154/92 mm Hg and no neurological deficits or signs of meningism to suggest an intracranial hemorrhage.

**C - Intranasal sumatriptan** - Sumatriptan is an abortive treatment for migraine. This patient has a history of migraine, which can present with headache and nausea. However, other features, such as visual auras and photophobia, usually accompany acute attacks of migraine. Migraines are also not typically associated with confusion, memory loss, and an unsteady gait.

**E - Low-dose oxygen therapy** - Low-dose oxygen therapy is a general supportive measure that is given under various circumstances. Because this patient has carbon monoxide poisoning, she requires treatment with high oxygen tension. Administering 100% oxygen via a nonrebreather mask is typically the first step in management. However, this woman shows signs of neurological dysfunction (e.g., confusion, agitation), which suggests a COHb level > 30%. Therefore, a more effective form of therapy should be initiated to aid in the rapid elimination of COHb in patients with a COHb level > 25%.

**F - Heliox therapy** - The mixture of helium and oxygen (heliox) is often used for diseases that cause profound airflow limitation (e.g. croup, bronchiolitis, asthma). The mixture has lower density than room air and is therefore more likely to retain laminar flow in central airways and elicit less effort to breathe than room air. Decreasing the density would not facilitate the clearance of carbon monoxide or improve the patient's oxygenation.

