### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Number of women with normal mammography who do not have breast cancer** - TN and FP are necessary to calculate the specificity of this new mammography technique. FP can be calculated from the data set (FP = 29 - 26 = 3). TN in this case would be the number of women with normal mammography findings in conjunction with no evidence of breast cancer on biopsy (i.e., no changes or only benign changes).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Probability that a woman with abnormal mammography findings has breast cancer** - This probability is also known as the positive predictive value (PPV). The formula for calculating PPV is PPV = TP/(TP + FP), in which TP and FP are the numbers of true and false positives, respectively. In this scenario, the TP and FP are already known, and TN, which is the missing variable to calculate specificity, cannot be gleaned from the PPV alone.

**B - Incidence of breast cancer in the general population** - The incidence of breast cancer denotes the number of new breast cancer cases within a specific time frame (e.g., one year). This parameter is not needed for the calculation of specificity.

**D - Prevalence of breast cancer in the general population** - The prevalence of breast cancer denotes the number of total breast cancer cases in the general population at specific point in time. This parameter is not needed for the calculation of specificity.

**E - Number of women with benign breast changes and normal mammography findings** - The number of women with benign breast changes and normal mammography findings constitutes only a part of TN and, therefore, would not suffice for the calculation of specificity. The other component of TN would be the number of women with no breast changes and normal mammography findings.

