### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Trypanosoma cruzi infection** - Trypanosoma cruzi infection causes Chagas disease (American trypanosomiasis), which, in the chronic phase, manifests with dilated cardiomyopathy, dysphagia, and megaesophagus (due to secondary achalasia), all of which are seen here. T. cruzi is endemic in Central and South America (e.g., Argentina) and, although some patients may develop symptoms of acute Chagas disease (e.g., fever, fatigue, lymphadenopathy, chagoma, generalized lymphadenopathy), most remain asymptomatic in the acute phase. About 10–30% of affected individuals develop chronic Chagas disease 10–20 years after the initial infection. Besides dilated cardiomyopathy and achalasia, patients with chronic Chagas disease might also present with megacolon.

Image File: 883-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_582358579fe1c.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Coxsackie B virus infection** - Coxsackie B virus is known to cause infectious myocarditis and dilated cardiomyopathy. However, coxsackie B virus infection does not manifest with dysphagia or a dilated esophagus. Moreover, patients with coxsackie B virus infection usually present with preceding (1–2 weeks) flu-like symptoms, which this patient has no history of.

**B - Thiamine deficiency** - Inadequate thiamine uptake can lead to beriberi, which manifests with dilated cardiomyopathy. However, thiamine deficiency does not manifest with dysphagia and megaesophagus. Moreover, patients with beriberi also present with symmetric peripheral neuropathy, confusion, and progressive muscle wasting, none of which is seen in this patient. Finally, this patient has no known risk factors for thiamine deficiency (e.g., heavy drinking, malnutrition).

**C - Iron accumulation** - Accumulation of iron in the body causes hemochromatosis, which can manifest with dilated cardiomyopathy. However, patients with this condition do not present with dysphagia and a dilated esophagus, as seen here. Moreover, hemochromatosis typically manifests with other organ-specific findings caused by iron accumulation in the affected organs, such as abdominal pain, hepatomegaly, features of diabetes mellitus, and bronze skin, none of which is seen in this patient.

Image File: 883-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb41220d9c8d.jpg

**D - Anti-topoisomerase I antibodies** - Anti-topoisomerase I antibodies are seen in scleroderma, which can manifest with dysphagia and a dilated esophagus (due to esophageal hypomotility) and cardiomyopathy. However, fibroblast proliferation in the cardiac system of affected individual results in restrictive rather than dilated cardiomyopathy. Moreover, patients with scleroderma typically present with thickening and hardening of the skin, sclerodactyly, joint stiffness, and Raynaud phenomenon, none of which is seen in this patient.

Image File: 883-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fec77adc6856.jpg

**F - Chronic tissue ischemia** - Chronic tissue ischemia of the heart causes ischemic heart disease, which can manifest with dilated cardiomyopathy, as seen here. However, ischemic heart disease is not associated with dysphagia or a dilated esophagus. Moreover, this patient has no history of symptoms of myocardial ischemia (e.g., angina pectoris).

