### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Intravenous vancomycin and ceftriaxone** - A regimen of intravenous vancomycin and ceftriaxone covers a broad spectrum of both gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria (including MRSA). This regimen is the recommended empiric therapy for sepsis and should be started immediately after blood cultures have been obtained. Any delay in antibiotic therapy is associated with further complications (e.g., septic shock, multiple organ dysfunction syndrome) and a significant increase in mortality.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous imipenem and cilastatin** - IV imipenem and cilastatin are indicated for the inpatient treatment of hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) in patients with a low risk for mortality and no risk factors for MRSA infection. This patient does not fulfill the diagnostic criteria of HAP. Instead, she presents with signs of sepsis as a complication of a respiratory infection. A different treatment approach is required.

**B - D-dimer levels** - D-dimers can be used to rule out pulmonary embolism (PE) if there is a low to intermediate pretest probability (based on the Wells criteria for PE). This patient's recent long-distance travel and history of varicose veins increase her risk for DVT, which can lead to PE. She also presents with symptoms and signs consistent with PE, including dyspnea, tachypnea, cough, fever, and dullness on percussion. However, she lacks both chest and leg pain, which would be consistent with PE and DVT, respectively. Moreover, PE is normally associated with an acute rather than insidious onset, and leukocytosis is not a characteristic finding.

**C - Oral amoxicillin** - Monotherapy with oral amoxicillin is the first-line treatment for uncomplicated community-acquired pneumonia in patients who have a CRB-65 score of 0 (i.e., hospitalization not required) and no comorbidities or risk factors. This patient with type 2 diabetes mellitus has a CRB-65 score of 1 and presents with signs of sepsis as a complication of a respiratory infection, which makes a different treatment approach necessary.

**D - Intravenous dobutamine** - Vasoactive agents, such as dobutamine, may be indicated for patients with septic shock. However, this patient does not have septic shock. She had sepsis-induced hypotension (her mean arterial pressure is 69 mm Hg) before fluid resuscitation was even initiated, which does not justify the use of vasoactive drugs. Additionally, the appropriate first-line vasoactive agent for septic shock would be norepinephrine, which is used for its strong vasopressive effects. This patient's infection needs to be addressed more urgently.

**E - External cooling and intravenous acetaminophen** - External cooling (also known as therapeutic hypothermia) and intravenous acetaminophen are controversial measures that have been studied as part of the management of sepsis, but which have not been proven useful so far. Further research is required to assess the role of these interventions in the management of patients with sepsis. This patient's infection requires immediate treatment.

**G - CT scan of the chest with contrast** - A CT of the chest with contrast is indicated as a definitive diagnostic test for pulmonary embolism (PE) if there is a low to intermediate pretest probability and D-dimers are elevated or if there is a high pretest probability (based on the Wells criteria for PE). This patient's recent long-distance travel and history of varicose veins increase her risk for DVT, which can lead to PE. She also presents with symptoms and signs consistent with PE, including dyspnea, tachypnea, cough, fever, and dullness on percussion. However, she lacks both leg and chest pain, which would be consistent with DVT and PE, respectively. Moreover, PE is normally associated with an acute rather than insidious onset, and leukocytosis is not a characteristic finding.

