### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Immune complex formation** - This patient's fatigue, arthralgia, Raynaud phenomenon, palpable purpura, impaired renal function, and polyneuropathy in combination with elevated liver enzymes and a history of intravenous drug use indicate cryoglobulinemic vasculitis secondary to hepatitis C infection. Cryoglobulinemic vasculitis is caused by temperature-dependent formation of immune complexes between hepatitis C IgG, IgM rheumatoid factor, and hepatitis C antigen. These complexes cause complement activation and inflammation of the blood vessels. Other conditions associated with cryoglobulinemic vasculitis include multiple myeloma, lymphoproliferative disorders, and connective tissue diseases (e.g., systemic lupus erythematosus).

Image File: 886-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_517be8d5417ea.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Granulomatous inflammation** - Granulomatous inflammation of vessels is a feature of sarcoidosis and granulomatous vasculitides (e.g., granulomatosis with polyangiitis, eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis). Sarcoidosis can also present with fatigue, arthralgia, skin lesions (e.g., erythema nodosum, lupus pernio), and impaired renal function. However, sarcoidosis would not explain this patient's elevated liver enzymes, Raynaud phenomenon, or palpable purpura. Although palpable purpura, neuropathy, and impaired renal function can be seen in some granulomatous vasculitides, additional symptoms such as upper respiratory tract symptoms (e.g., rhinitis, sinusitis) would be expected.

**C - Spirochete infection** - Infection with the spirochete Treponema pallidum causes syphilis, which can lead to fatigue, arthralgia, a palpable rash involving the hands and feet, elevated liver enzymes and creatinine, as well as sensory neuropathy (due to tabes dorsalis) in later stages of the disease. However, a typical presentation of tabes dorsalis would include ataxia. Moreover, Raynaud syndrome is not associated with this infection. Finally, this patient has not reported further typical symptoms of syphilis, such as painless chancre, condylomata lata, and constitutional symptoms (e.g., fever, lymphadenopathy).

**D - Tobacco hypersensitivity** - Thromboangiitis obliterans (TAO) is thought to be caused by tobacco hypersensitivity and can also manifest with Raynaud phenomenon and skin lesions in individuals who smoke, such as this patient. However, skin lesions are caused by superficial thrombophlebitis and do not manifest with palpable purpura. Moreover, TAO would not explain this patient's arthralgia, impaired renal function, elevated liver enzymes, or peripheral neuropathy.

**E - Fibroblast proliferation** - Fibroblast proliferation is a feature of systemic sclerosis, which can present with fatigue, Raynaud phenomenon, arthralgia, and impaired renal function. However, hepatic involvement manifesting as elevated liver enzymes is rare. Finally, this patient lacks other typical features of systemic sclerosis, including sclerodactyly, thickening and hardening of the skin, and loss of facial expression.

**F - Plasma cell malignancy** - This patient's presentation is consistent with cryoglobulinemic vasculitis, a condition associated with plasma cell malignancies (e.g., multiple myeloma, Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia). However, other symptoms of plasma cell malignancy, such as fever, night sweats, and weight loss, would be expected. Moreover, elevated liver enzymes suggest a different underlying cause for this patient's cryoglobulinemia.

