### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Captopril therapy** - Antihypertensive therapy is the most appropriate initial approach for patients with scleroderma renal crisis (SRC) because blood pressure control stabilizes and improves renal function. SRC can rapidly progress to end-stage renal disease (ESRD), so therapy should be initiated as soon as possible. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) are the first-line therapy given their antihypertensive efficacy and nephroprotective effects. Captopril is the most commonly used ACEI because it has a rapid onset and short duration of action, which allows for rapid dose titration. Serum creatinine should be monitored and captopril therapy should be continued despite an initial increase in serum creatinine, which is expected and typically transient. Given their associated increase in survival, long-acting ACEIs (e.g., ramipril, enalapril) should be continued indefinitely in patients who have developed SRC, regardless of their blood pressure values. Patients who develop ESRD despite ACEI therapy may require temporary or permanent renal replacement therapy.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Phenoxybenzamine therapy** - Phenoxybenzamine is typically used for the preoperative management of patients with pheochromocytoma, which can manifest with new-onset hypertension accompanied by headache and nausea. Furthermore, pheochromocytoma can be associated with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF type 1), which can manifest with skin depigmentation. However, patients with NF type 1 typically develop hyperpigmented macules of patches (café au lait spots), rather than diffuse (salt-and-pepper) hypopigmentation. Moreover, pheochromocytoma is typically associated with diaphoresis, palpitations, and pallor, none of which are seen here. This patient's presentation is consistent with SRC, for which phenoxybenzamine is not indicated.

**B - Hydroxychloroquine therapy** - Hydroxychloroquine is indicated for the treatment of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), which can manifest with fatigue, myalgia, arthralgia, skin lesions, hypertension, renal dysfunction, hemolytic anemia, and positive ANA. However, individuals with SLE typically develop a maculopapular rash (most commonly butterfly rash), rather than diffuse hypopigmentation or sclerodactyly, and present with mild nondeforming arthritis, rather than tender joint contractures. This patient most likely has SRC, for which hydroxychloroquine is not typically indicated.

**D - Glucocorticoid therapy** - Glucocorticoids can be used for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), which can manifest with fatigue, myalgia, arthralgia, joint deformities, anemia, and positive ANA. However, hypertension, sclerodactyly, diffuse skin hypopigmentation, and renal failure are not characteristic of RA. This patient most likely has systemic sclerosis and SRC and should therefore avoid glucocorticoids, which can worsen renal dysfunction.

**E - Cyclosporine therapy** - Cyclosporine may be indicated for the management of psoriasis with psoriatic arthritis, which can manifest with skin lesions, arthralgia, and joint deformities. However, patients with psoriasis typically develop silver-white scaling with pruritus rather than diffuse hypopigmentation and present with nail involvement (e.g., nail pitting, onycholysis) and dactylitis, rather than sclerodactyly. Moreover, although patients with psoriasis can also develop hypertension and kidney disease, these complications have a chronic rather than an acute onset. Finally, hemolytic anemia and positive ANA are not characteristic of psoriasis. This patient most likely has SRC and should therefore avoid cyclosporine, which has nephrotoxic effects.

