### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - The future risk of open-angle glaucoma is the same in patients with and those without diabetes** - In this cohort study, the two populations being compared are patients with and without diabetes. The measured variables are fasting serum glucose measurements (the exposure) and risk of open-angle glaucoma incidence (the outcome). Thus, the null hypothesis should state that there is no significant difference between the two groups or that the risk of open-angle glaucoma is the same regardless of diabetes.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Having diabetes will not cause changes in risk of future open-angle glaucoma** - The null hypothesis is a statement that posits no relationship between variables or differences between populations. Statements regarding the presence or absence of a causal relationship would not be appropriate for a null hypothesis.

**C - Diabetes is not associated with an increased prevalence of open-angle glaucoma** - This null hypothesis would be more appropriate for a cross-sectional study, which would examine prevalence of open-angle glaucoma. This study, however, has a cohort design and is examining incidence of open-angle glaucoma, not prevalence.

**D - The future risk of open-angle glaucoma is higher in patients with diabetes than in those without diabetes** - This statement represents a possible alternative hypothesis, which attributes the experimental observations to a true effect or relationship between the predictor and outcome variables.

**E - Improved adherence to antidiabetics will not be effective in decreasing future open-angle glaucoma risk** - The null hypothesis should relate to the specific variables being tested by the study. In this case, the variables are fasting serum glucose measurements (not diabetes medication adherence) and risk or incidence of open-angle glaucoma. This option is therefore an inappropriate null hypothesis. Instead, this statement represents an example of a possible interpretation of the results or conclusion drawn from the study.

