### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Ethylene glycol** - Ethylene glycol is enzymatically oxidized by alcohol dehydrogenase, then aldehyde dehydrogenase to form oxalate, glyoxylate, and glycolate. These metabolites collect in the renal system and are detectable in the urine as oxalate crystals, which can cause flank pain, hematuria, oliguria, and acute kidney injury. Hypocalcemia, the cause of this patient's tetany, is a result of calcium being consumed by oxalate to form calcium oxalate. Other signs of ethylene glycol poisoning are altered mental status and tachypnea (due to respiratory compensation for metabolic acidosis), both of which are seen in this patient. Treatment of ethylene glycol poisoning consists of fomepizole to competitively inhibit alcohol dehydrogenase, as ethylene glycol itself is not nearly as toxic as its metabolites. In patients with signs of kidney dysfunction or severe metabolic acidosis (pH < 7.25), emergency hemodialysis must also be initiated because the damaged kidneys will not be able to excrete the toxins sufficiently.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Parathion** - Parathion is an organophosphate that can cause cholinergic toxicity. Although this patient's altered mental status and vomiting are also seen in organophosphate poisoning, anion gap metabolic acidosis and oxalate crystals would not be seen. Additionally, he lacks the other classic symptoms of cholinergic toxicity (such as diarrhea, bradycardia, and sweating), which makes this an unlikely cause of his symptoms.

**B - Aspirin** - Aspirin toxicity can cause altered mental status, vomiting, tachypnea, and anion gap metabolic acidosis, which is similar to this patient's presentation. However, this condition would not explain the urine oxalate crystals or osmolar gap seen here.

**C - Methanol** - Methanol is an alcohol that is metabolized to formate, a toxic substance that can cause end-organ damage. Although methanol poisoning would explain many of this man's symptoms (anion gap metabolic acidosis, altered mental status, increased serum osmolar gap), it would not cause oxalate crystals to appear in his urine, making it an unlikely cause of his symptoms.

**D - Isopropyl alcohol** - Isopropyl alcohol ingestion can cause altered mental status and elevated osmolar gap, as seen in this patient. However, it would not explain the elevated anion gap metabolic acidosis. It would also typically lead to elevated urine ketones because isopropanol is enzymatically converted to acetone.

**E - Ethanol** - Ethanol intoxication can cause altered mental status and vomiting, both of which are seen in this patient. However, serum pH and anion gap are typically normal in ethanol poisoning and oxalate crystals would not be detectable on urinalysis.

**F - Cyanide** - Cyanide poisoning can cause altered mental status and elevated anion gap metabolic acidosis, which are both seen in this patient. However, patients will also typically have breath that smells like bitter almonds, change in skin color like flushing (early) or cyanosis (late), and mucous membrane irritation, which are not present here. Additionally, cyanide poisoning would not explain this patient's urine oxalate crystals and osmolar gap.

**H - Toluene** - Toluene is an inhalant that can cause altered mental status secondary to CNS depression, which is seen in this case. However, toluene toxicity would not explain this patient's anion gap metabolic acidosis, urine oxalate crystals, osmolar gap, or hypocalcemia, which makes it an unlikely cause of his symptoms. Patients with toluene intoxication typically present with normal anion gap hyperchloremic acidosis and marked hypokalemia.

