### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Chikungunya virus infection** - This patient's acute onset of fever, malaise, myalgia, symmetric polyarthralgia affecting distal joints, morning stiffness, and maculopapular rash in combination with leukopenia and thrombocytopenia after traveling to Puerto Rico are suggestive of Chikungunya virus infection. This condition most commonly occurs in tropical and subtropical regions and is transmitted via Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus mosquito bites; the incubation period ranges from 1 to 14 days (usually 3–7 days). The diagnosis is confirmed via RT-PCR or serology. Treatment is supportive. Although many patients fully recover, some develop chronic arthritis, which can be severe and often incapacitating, as a complication of Chikungunya virus infection.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Lyme disease** - Disseminated Lyme disease can cause fever, malaise, myalgias, diffuse rash, and arthralgias, all of which are seen in this patient. However, this condition usually causes migratory arthralgia rather than symmetric polyarthralgia and generally affects large joints such as the knees and elbows. In addition, disseminated Lyme disease usually manifests with multiple erythema migrans lesions that spread from a single erythema migrans lesion around the bite site rather than the diffuse maculopapular rash seen here.

**C - Disseminated gonococcal infection** - Disseminated gonococcal infection (DGI) can occur in sexually active young adults and cause polyarthralgia (gonococcal arthritis), fever, malaise, and a rash, all of which are seen here. However, the polyarthralgia seen in DGI is typically asymmetric and migratory, unlike the symmetric, nonmigratory polyarthralgia in this patient, and the rash is usually vesicular or pustular (possibly with a necrotic or hemorrhagic center) rather than maculopapular. Moreover, leukocyte count and ESR are elevated in most cases. Furthermore, this patient uses condoms, making a sexually transmitted infection such as DGI unlikely.

**D - Septic arthritis** - Septic arthritis can cause acute-onset fever and severe joint pain with swelling, which are seen here. However, a single large joint rather than multiple distal joints is usually affected; polyarticular involvement is rare and tends to occur in patients with preexisting joint diseases (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, SLE) or as a result of hematogenous dissemination (e.g., sepsis, infective endocarditis), neither of which this patient has signs of. Moreover, septic arthritis does not cause diffuse myalgias, a maculopapular rash, early morning stiffness, leukopenia, or thrombocytopenia. Instead, patients usually have a severe restriction of movement in the affected joint and nonspecific elevations of WBC and ESR.

**E - Malaria** - Malaria is common in tropical and subtropical regions including Puerto Rico, where this patient recently traveled to. This condition is transmitted via mosquito bite and causes fever, malaise, myalgias, arthralgias, thrombocytopenia, and leukopenia, all of which are seen here. However, malaria does not cause a diffuse maculopapular rash. In addition, patients with malaria usually present with periodic fever spikes, whereas this patient's fever has been constant over the last 4 days.

**F - Rheumatoid arthritis** - Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) causes morning stiffness and symmetric polyarthralgia, primarily affects the proximal interphalangeal joints and metacarpophalangeal joints, and is often preceded by a prodrome of constitutional symptoms (i.e., fever, malaise, myalgia), all of which are seen here. However, RA typically develops insidiously; forms of RA that arise acutely (e.g., palindromic rheumatism, elderly-onset RA) are less common. Moreover, rheumatoid nodules, neutrophilic dermatoses, and features of cutaneous vasculitis (e.g., petechiae, skin ulcers) rather than a maculopapular rash are the typical dermatological manifestations of RA. Furthermore, during a flare of RA, patients usually have an elevated ESR and tend to develop thrombocytosis and/or mild leukocytosis. Leukopenia, which is seen here, only occurs in RA as a result of immunosuppressive treatment or Felty syndrome, a rare complication.

**G - Gout flare** - Gout flares can cause acute-onset joint pain and swelling and are most likely to affect the distal small joints, especially the first metatarsophalangeal joint, which is swollen in this patient. However, gout attacks usually only affect a single joint; polyarticular involvement and extra-articular symptoms such as fever and muscle tenderness are less common. Moreover, classic gout attacks peak at night 12–24 hours after an inciting event (e.g., heavy drinking), manifest with excruciating pain and cardinal signs of inflammation as well as an elevated WBC and ESR, and are not associated with a rash.

