### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Write a medical note that excuses the patient from soccer practice** - A common finding in patients with IM is splenomegaly, which increases the risk of splenic rupture. Although this patient's abdominal examination shows no abnormalities, the spleen may still be or become enlarged. Since splenic rupture is most likely to occur 2–21 days after symptom onset, patients should avoid strenuous physical activity (e.g., soccer) for at least 3 weeks after initial symptoms develop and avoid contact sports (e.g., football, wrestling) for at least 4 weeks. Treatment of IM is mainly symptomatic and involves antipyretic and analgesic therapy (e.g., acetaminophen).

Image File: 894-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_610d186f9fe08.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Recommend avoiding public places and social gatherings** - IM spreads via bodily fluids such as saliva. Unless patients have immediate contact with other individuals such as from kissing or sharing objects that have been contaminated with another person's bodily fluids (e.g., toothbrush, drinking glass), infection is unlikely. A recommendation to avoid public places and gatherings is therefore not indicated.

**C - Prescribe oral amoxicillin therapy** - Amoxicillin is indicated for bacterial tonsillitis and pharyngitis, both of which can present with fever, sore throat, enlarged tonsils with exudates, and/or cervical lymphadenopathy. However, lymphocytosis and a positive heterophile antibody test indicate EBV infection. Patients with EBV infection are often mistakenly treated with aminopenicillins because IM presents similarly to streptococcal pharyngitis and tonsilitis and these conditions are also typically diagnosed clinically. Additionally, rapid GAS antigen detection tests (rapid strep tests) can be positive in IM due to asymptomatic colonization of the pharynx with group A beta-hemolytic streptococci. Administering aminopenicillin to patients with IM should be avoided to prevent the potential complication of a pruritic, macular erythematous rash developing 5–9 days later.

**D - Begin oral corticosteroid therapy** - Steroids are not recommended for routine use in IM treatment. They may be considered in complicated disease courses, e.g. in patients with severe airway obstruction, fulminant liver failure, or autoimmune hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia, none of which are seen here.

**E - Begin intravenous acyclovir therapy** - Acyclovir is an antiviral agent used to treat infections with herpes simplex virus (HSV) and varicella zoster virus (VZV). It is not indicated for infections with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV; the cause of infectious mononucleosis), despite also belonging to the human herpesvirus family. HSV and VZV infections are commonly associated with a characteristic vesicular eruptions (e.g., herpetic gingivostomatitis, chickenpox, respectively) but not IM.

**F - Measure serum anti-viral capsid antigen antibody concentration** - Antiviral capsid antigen antibodies (anti-VCA) are used in the diagnosis of IM. However, testing for anti-VCA is only indicated if IM is suspected but the heterophile agglutination test is negative. Considering that the heterophile antibody test has a specificity of nearly 100% for EBV infection, no further testing is needed to confirm the diagnosis.

**G - Begin intravenous foscarnet therapy** - Foscarnet is an antiviral agent used in the treatment of cytomegalovirus and herpes simplex virus infections. While the majority of mononucleosis syndromes are caused by Epstein-Barr virus, infection with CMV accounts for ∼ 7% of cases. However, in CMV mononucleosis, symptoms are often milder, pharyngitis/tonsillitis are typically absent, and the heterophile antibody test is negative.

