### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Osmotic diuresis** - This patient most likely has hyperosmotic hyperglycemic syndrome (HHS), as a result of undiagnosed diabetes mellitus, as evidenced by his hemoglobin A1C, polyuria, orthostatic hypotension, and dehydration. Patients with HHS often present with mild hyponatremia because elevated serum glucose concentrations increase serum osmolality, pulling water out of cells and reducing the serum sodium concentration. However, patients with highly elevated serum osmolality can also experience marked water excretion due to osmotic diuresis, in which water loss exceeds sodium loss, which worsens volume depletion and increases the serum sodium concentration.

Image File: 895-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60f54cff32263.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Poor fluid intake** - Poor fluid intake, particularly in elderly individuals and the critically ill, can cause dehydration. When individuals lose water in excess of sodium, a state of hypovolemic hypernatremia develops. This patient, however, drinks plenty of fluid (9 glasses of water per day).

**B - Diuretic overdose** - Hydrochlorothiazide is a diuretic that increases sodium and water elimination by inhibiting the Na+-Cl- cotransporter in the early distal renal tubule. This increased elimination can cause dehydration, which is seen in this patient. However, patients with hydrochlorothiazide overdose present with hypovolemic hyponatremia due to sodium loss in excess of water loss, not hypovolemic hypernatremia.

**D - Gastroinstestinal fluid loss** - Gastrointestinal fluid loss (e.g., from vomiting or osmotic diarrhea) can cause hypovolemic hypernatremia because the fluid losses have a sodium concentration lower than the serum sodium concentration, leading to an excess loss in water and mild elevation in the serum sodium concentration. However, patients with extrarenal water losses typically have elevated urine osmolality (> 700–800 mOsm/kg). Additionally, hypernatremia caused by gastrointestinal water losses alone does not account for the marked elevation in serum osmolality seen in this patient.

**E - Excess water intake** - Excessive water intake occurs in psychogenic polydipsia, which may cause dilutional hyponatremia. This patient, however, presents with hypernatremia.

**F - Excess production of aldosterone** - Excess production of aldosterone occurs in primary hyperaldosteronism, causing increased renal sodium reabsorption, water retention, and potassium excretion, all of which lead to secondary hypertension (due to hypervolemia) and hypokalemia. However, because of the aldosterone escape mechanism, frank hypernatremia rarely develops. Moreover, primary hyperaldosteronism does not explain this patient's hypovolemia.

**G - Insufficient production of antidiuretic hormone** - Insufficient production of antidiuretic hormone is the hallmark of central diabetes insipidus (DI), which can also cause hypernatremia due to free water loss via the kidney, particularly if individuals are unable to adequately replace water losses. Patients with DI typically present with polyuria and polydipsia in the setting of normovolemia. However, patients who have impaired fluid intake (adipsic diabetes insipidus), e.g., due to immobility, typically have more severe, chronic hypernatremia (∼ 155–190 mEq/L) that develops insidiously but is less likely to cause symptoms despite the severity of the hypernatremia. Although this patient has many features of central DI, a hemoglobin A1C of 10.5% would not be characteristic of this condition.

