### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Perform skeletal survey radiographs** - In SBS, nonfebrile seizures, vomiting, irritability, and poor feeding can be the result of increased intracranial pressure due to the SDH (if the anterior fontanelle is closed) or due to diffuse axonal injury (which might not be evident on CT scan). Children below 2 years of age are prone to developing traumatic brain injury if they are shaken violently because they have a relatively large head, poor neck tone, increased water content of the brain, and flat skull base (which permits the brain to move easily). After stabilizing the patient, a skeletal survey and fundoscopy should be performed in all cases of suspected child abuse in order to evaluate for signs that cannot be detected on physical examination. Findings that support physical child abuse include multiple fractures at different stages of healing, metaphyseal and epiphyseal corner fractures, posterior rib fractures, spiral diaphyseal fractures of long bones (e.g., humerus), retinal hemorrhage, and vitreous hemorrhage. Suspected child abuse warrants an immediate notification of the Child Protective Services.

Image File: 897-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5769bf9d1182e.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform genetic testing for bleeding disorders** - This patient's bruises and SDH may be caused by a bleeding disorder. His platelet count and coagulation parameters (PT/INR, PTT) should be measured as a part of the initial workup to rule out bleeding disorders and in preparation for potential surgery. However, genetic testing for a bleeding disorder is not required unless the results of the initial workup suggest a bleeding disorder. This patient's initial laboratory workup is pending.

**C - Arrange for a meeting with both parents** - This patient's clinical and imaging findings suggest abusive head trauma rather than a fall down the stairs as stated by the mother. At this point, it is highly unlikely that talking to both parents will help clarify the circumstances of the incident. Moreover, confronting the parents with doubts about the truthfulness of their statements could make them avoid further contact with the physician and thereby delay further evaluation and treatment for the boy.

**D - Perform lumbar puncture** - This patient has an SDH, which is a contraindication for lumbar puncture.

**E - Perform electroencephalography** - Electroencephalography (EEG) is used to diagnose epileptic disorders and to risk-stratify patients with epileptic disorders for future seizures. In a child with a seizure, an EEG is performed after febrile seizures, CNS infections, and toxic, metabolic, and structural causes for a seizure have been ruled out by the initial workup (e.g., serum electrolytes and glucose, neuroimaging). This patient's initial workup reveals SDH, which is a structural cause of seizure. An EEG is therefore not required.

