### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Dose-response relationship** - The relative risk (RR) of readmission increases as the number of previous episodes of DKA increases, which means that there is a dose-response gradient. Increased amounts of exposure (in this case, prior episodes of DKA) leading to an increased risk of the outcome (in this case, readmission) is one of the criteria required to establish causality in epidemiological studies. Dose-response relationships are quite common in the epidemiologic literature. Other examples include the relationship between the amount of tobacco smoked and mortality from lung cancer, an incremental increases in blood pressure or left ventricle hypertrophy correlating with increased myocardial infarction risk, and an incremental increases in clozapine doses correlating with increased risk of seizures in patients with schizophrenia.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Low p-value** - The p-value is a measure of statistical significance, but it has no bearing on causality. One of the criteria for causality is strength of association, which refers to the magnitude of the study's outcome measure (relative risk or odds ratio, depending on the study design), not to the p-value.

**B - Confidence intervals that do not cross 1.0** - The confidence interval gives the estimated range of values that is 95% likely to include the unknown “true” value in the study population. In this study, the confidence intervals for the relative risk values do not cross 1.0. This implies that there are statistically significant differences between the risk of readmission in patients with no history of DKA and the risk of readmission in patients with a history of DKA. This implies statistical significance but has no bearing on causality.

**C - Case-control study design** - This is not a case-control study but rather a prospective cohort study. In a case-control study, the cases of an outcome of interest would first be selected, followed by suitable controls. The measure would be reported as an odds ratio, not relative risk. This is because, in a case-control study, actual risk cannot be estimated because a smaller number of controls and cases selected from the population are being studied rather than an entire population. In this prospective cohort study, 587 patients with recent admissions for DKA were followed and 100 cases and 487 controls were identified over time.

**D - High odds ratio** - High odds ratio is incorrect because this study is a prospective cohort study, which uses relative risk as its measure of association rather than the odds ratio, which would be used in a case-control study. Actual risk (AR) cannot be estimated in a case-control study because a smaller number of controls and cases selected from the population are being studied rather than an entire population.

