### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Intravenous ceftriaxone therapy** - Intravenous ceftriaxone, a third-generation cephalosporin, is the first-line treatment for Lyme carditis associated with arrhythmias and other manifestations of disseminated Lyme disease, which typically occurs 3–10 weeks after a tick bite. Although no tick bite nor specific signs of early, localized Lyme disease (e.g., erythema chronicum migrans) were reported, she did have nonspecific flu-like symptoms two weeks after her camping trip. A clinician should be highly suspicious of Lyme carditis in a young patient presenting with palpitations, dyspnea, and Mobitz type I 2nd-degree AV block 6 weeks after a camping trip to a Lyme disease-endemic area. Diagnosis should be confirmed via serology before beginning antibiotic therapy.

Image File: 904-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fc7d0f88f7d9.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Oral amoxicillin therapy** - Oral amoxicillin, a beta-lactam antibiotic, is used to treat localized and some manifestations of early disseminated Lyme disease (including mild carditis) in pregnant and lactating women. However, in the case of Lyme carditis with a 2nd-degree AV block, another form of therapy is indicated.

**C - Beta blocker therapy** - Beta blockers have negative inotropic, dromotropic, and chronotropic effects, which typically lead to decreased blood pressure and decreased oxygen consumption by the heart and can thus be used to treat hypertension and heart failure. Beta blockers would actually worsen the patient's bradycardia (her pulse is 47/min) and are contraindicated if there is an AV block.

**D - Vitamin B1 supplementation** - Vitamin B1 (thiamine) supplementation may be indicated in the case of thiamine deficiency, which can cause wet beriberi. Wet beriberi is characterized by high-output cardiac failure (dilated cardiomyopathy), cardiomegaly, and edema. Thiamine deficiency typically occurs in cases of chronic alcohol consumption, malnutrition, and starvation. The vignette does not mention any of these risk factors nor edema.

**E - Oral doxycycline therapy** - Oral doxycycline, a tetracycline, is used to treat patients with localized and some manifestations of early disseminated Lyme disease, including mild carditis. However, in the case of Lyme carditis with a 2nd-degree AV block, another form of therapy is indicated.

**F - Atropine therapy** - Atropine, a muscarinic antagonist, may be indicated in cases of bradycardia. However, the patient is young, hemodynamically stable, and her symptoms are not severe. Furthermore, she has an AV block associated with early disseminated Lyme disease, so it is important to first treat the underlying cause. Additionally, atropine affects the sinus node as opposed to the AV node.

**G - Permanent pacemaker implantation** - A permanent pacemaker implantation is not usually necessary to treat an AV block caused by Lyme carditis. Severe cases (e.g., Mobitz type II 2nd-degree AV block, 3rd degree AV block) or hemodynamically unstable patients may require temporary pacemaker implantation, however.

