### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Fomepizole** - Fomepizole is the antidote of choice for methanol poisoning and should be administered until methanol concentrations are undetectable. The deleterious effects of methanol result from its conversion by the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase into the toxic metabolite formaldehyde, which is converted to formic acid. Formic acid causes metabolic acidosis with an increased anion gap and osmolar gap, retinal toxicity, and coma. Fomepizole, which inhibits alcohol dehydrogenase, delays the production of these toxic metabolites until methanol can be eliminated by the kidney. Hemodialysis is also required to increase the rate of elimination of methanol in patients with renal failure, and those with severe cases of methanol poisoning (e.g., patients with loss of vision, persistent anion gap metabolic acidosis, methanol levels > 15 mmol/L). In addition to fomepizole and hemodialysis, the patients should receive cofactor therapy with folinic or folic acid to facilitate the elimination of methanol and its metabolites via non-toxic metabolic pathways.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Methylene blue** - Methylene blue is used to treat severe methemoglobinemia, which may present with tachycardia, tachypnea, hypotension (due to shock), and coma. Acquired methemoglobinemia occurs after administration of substances that have an oxidation potential, such as nitrites, local anesthetic agents, dapsone, chloroquine, or sulfonamides. This patient does not have a history of consumption of any of these substances. Patients with methemoglobinemia would also have cyanosis and a decreased O2 saturation on pulse oximetry.

**B - Ethanol** - If first-line treatment is not available, ethanol is an alternative that competes with methanol for the substrate binding site of alcohol dehydrogenase, which delays the production of toxic metabolites formaldehyde and formic acid until methanol can be eliminated by the kidney.

**C - N-acetylcysteine** - N-acetylcysteine is used as an antidote for acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen overdose can result in fulminant hepatic failure and hepatic encephalopathy. Patients with hepatic encephalopathy may fall into a coma, which may occasionally be accompanied by an increased anion gap metabolic acidosis and an increased osmolar gap (due to impaired lactate clearance). However, these manifestations typically occur 24 hours after ingestion, and are usually preceded by nonspecific symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and/or abdominal pain. There is also no evidence to suggest an acetaminophen overdose (e.g., a history of self-medication for chronic pain, suicidal ideation) in this patient.

**E - Naloxone** - Naloxone is used to treat opioid overdose. Although opioid overdose would result in unresponsiveness, as seen in this patient, it would also cause respiratory depression and pupillary miosis, which are not present.

**F - Flumazenil** - Flumazenil is the antidote of choice for benzodiazepine overdose. Although benzodiazepine overdose can result in unresponsiveness and hypotension, as seen in this patient, it does not typically cause tachypnea, tachycardia, or an increased osmolar gap.

