### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Primary respiratory alkalosis, renal compensation** - The combination of low pCO2 and alkalemia is consistent with primary respiratory alkalosis, which is caused by hyperventilation. In any acid-base (AB) disorder (i.e., alkalosis or acidosis), physiological compensation occurs initially via pH buffers in the serum, followed by the clearance of excess serum acids and bases (i.e., CO2, H+, and HCO3‑). The expected changes in pCO2 (for metabolic AB disorders) or HCO3- (for respiratory AB disorders) due to compensation can be estimated using formulas or AB nomograms.

In order to compensate for a respiratory AB disorder, the kidney modulates the reabsorption and excretion of HCO3- and H+ over a period of hours to days. If respiratory alkalosis has been present for several weeks, the expected HCO3- level can be calculated using the formula: 24 - [0.5 × (40 - pCO2)] +/- 3. Levels above this range indicate primary respiratory alkalosis with secondary metabolic alkalosis, levels below this range indicate primary respiratory alkalosis with secondary metabolic acidosis, and levels within this range indicate a single respiratory AB disorder with renal compensation. In this scenario, the expected HCO3- is 16–22 mEq/L, and since the patient's measured HCO3- (i.e., 21 mEq/L) falls within this range, it is likely that she only has one respiratory AB disorder: compensated primary respiratory alkalosis.

Image File: 909-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ea061a446209.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Primary respiratory alkalosis, uncompensated** - Low pCO2 with a high pH indicates respiratory alkalosis. However, physiological compensation always occurs in acid-base disorders, initially via pH buffers, followed by a net gain or loss of an acid or base.

**C - Primary respiratory alkalosis and secondary metabolic acidosis** - This patient's combination of low pCO2 and alkalemia is consistent with primary respiratory alkalosis, and decreased HCO3- could be indicative of secondary metabolic acidosis. If respiratory alkalosis has been present for several weeks, a diagnosis of secondary metabolic acidosis can be made if the patient's measured HCO3- is lower than the expected HCO3-, which can be calculated using the formula: 24 - [0.5 × (40 - PCO2)] +/- 3. In this scenario, the expected HCO3- is 16–22 mEq/L. Since the patient's measured HCO3- (i.e., 21 mEq/L) falls within this range, she does not have secondary metabolic acidosis.

**D - Primary metabolic alkalosis, uncompensated** - High pH can indicate primary metabolic alkalosis. However, HCO3- would also be elevated in a patient with primary metabolic alkalosis. Moreover, physiological compensation always occurs in acid-base disorders, initially via pH buffers, followed by a net gain or loss of an acid or base.

**E - Primary respiratory and secondary metabolic alkaloses** - The combination of low pCO2 and alkalemia is consistent with primary respiratory alkalosis. If respiratory alkalosis has been present for several weeks, a diagnosis of secondary metabolic alkalosis can be made if the patient's measured HCO3- is greater than the expected HCO3-, which can be calculated using the formula: 24 - [0.5 × (40 - pCO2)] +/- 3. In this scenario, the expected HCO3- is 16–22 mEq/L. Since the patient's measured HCO3- (i.e., 21 mEq/L) falls within this range, she does not have secondary metabolic alkalosis.

**F - Primary metabolic alkalosis, respiratory compensation** - High pH can indicate primary metabolic alkalosis. However, HCO3- would also be elevated in a patient with primary metabolic alkalosis.

