### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - The p-value of study A is likely larger than the p-value of study B.** - The 95% confidence interval of the hazard ratio (HR) for study A includes 1.0 and therefore is not statistically significant (p-value > 0.05). In contrast, the 95% confidence interval of the HR for study B does not include 1.0 and therefore is statistically significant (p-value < 0.05). Although the exact p-values are not given here, we can use this significance criteria to infer that (p-value of study B) < 0.05 < (p-value of study A).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - The results of study B are less likely to be accurate than the results of study A.** - Accuracy refers to how well a study reflects the truth of the association between the variables of interest. It is impossible to make a statement about this study's accuracy without information regarding its methodology (inclusion/exclusion criteria, randomization strategy, group demographics, etc.), which would allow sources of systematic error to be properly evaluated.

**B - The HR of study B is less likely to be statistically significant than the HR of study A.** - Because the 95% confidence interval of the hazard ratio (HR) excludes 1.0 for study B but includes 1.0 for study A, it can be concluded that the HR for study B is statistically significant, while the HR for study A is not.

**C - Study A likely had a larger sample size than study B.** - Assuming that all aspects of study design remain the same, a larger sample size (n) will decrease standard deviation, which results in a narrower confidence interval. Since study B has a narrower confidence interval than study A, it can be inferred that study B in fact had a larger sample size than study A. However, because no other information about the study populations is provided, it cannot be definitively concluded that this is the case.

**E - The power of study B is likely smaller than the power of study A.** - Statistical power is increased by several factors, including a large sample size, a large magnitude of effect between groups, increased precision of measurement, and the stringency of the statistical significance criteria chosen for the study (a p-value of 0.03 will fulfill a significance criteria of p < 0.05 before a significance criteria of p < 0.01). Because study B's 95% confidence interval of the hazard ratio (HR) excludes 1.0, this study had sufficient statistical power to detect a difference between the groups. In contrast, study A's 95% confidence interval of the HR includes 1.0; study A is therefore less powerful than study B.

