### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Succimer and calcium disodium edetate** - This patient has multiple signs and symptoms of lead toxicity, including evidence of cognitive deficits (language delay), behavioral problems, fatigue, constipation, abdominal pain (lead colic), gingival hyperpigmentation (Burton line), and microcytic, hypochromic anemia. For symptomatic patients (without evidence of encephalopathy) and blood lead levels ≥45 mcg/dL, chelation therapy with dimercaptosuccinic acid (succimer) and calcium disodium edetate (CaNa2EDTA) is appropriate. Chelation therapy with dimercaprol (BAL) is an alternative treatment option, although dimercaptosuccinic acid can be administered orally and is usually better tolerated.

Measurement of the venous blood lead level is necessary to establish the diagnosis. Fingerstick blood sampling is often used for screening purposes, but elevated lead levels must be confirmed by venous sampling. Because most children with lead poisoning are initially asymptomatic, screening is recommended for high-risk populations, including children living in older housing under renovation or with peeling paint, recent immigrants (such as this patient), refugees, or foreign adoptees, and children who have a sibling or playmate with lead poisoning. This child's environment should be inspected for lead sources to prevent further exposure.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Thiosulfate and hydroxocobalamin** - Sodium thiosulfate and hydroxycobalamin can be used together to treat cyanide poisoning. Cyanide poisoning could be responsible for some of this patient's symptoms, including fatigue, cognitive deficits, vomiting, and abdominal pain. However, cyanide toxicity would not cause hypochromic anemia, and affected patients have a ruddy complexion (as opposed to pallor) due to an increase in circulating oxygen in the blood that is not taken up by tissues.

**C - Deferoxamine** - Deferoxamine is a chelating agent used to treat iron overload. Symptoms of acute iron toxicity include abdominal pain (usually the first symptom), vomiting, and diarrhea. However, this patient has had no bowel movements for the past 4 days. While iron toxicity is common in children because iron supplements are often so easily accessible, this boy's microcytic anemia, pale conjunctiva, and hyperpigmented gums are more concerning for lead toxicity.

**D - Vitamin B12 and folate** - Vitamin B12 and folate deficiency can both cause anemia resulting in pallor and fatigue. However, anemia due to vitamin B12 or folate deficiency is typically macrocytic (not microcytic) and usually occurs in patients with poor nutrition or strict vegan diets. Further, anemia would not explain this patient's abdominal pain, gingival hyperpigmentation, or constipation.

**E - Penicillamine** - D-penicillamine is a chelating agent used to treat lead toxicity, but it is not recommended as a first-line agent due to its negative side effect profile, which includes leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, hematuria, liver dysfunction, angioedema, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. While this patient likely has lead toxicity with hypochromic anemia, lead colic, and cognitive impairment, he should be started on a first-line treatment rather than penicillamine.

**F - Iron** - Iron deficiency causes microcytic anemia, pallor, and fatigue. However, iron deficiency does not explain this patient's cognitive deficits, abdominal pain, or constipation.

