### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Hemin therapy** - Hemin is used to treat symptomatic exacerbations in acute intermittent porphyria (AIP). It functions as an inhibitor of δ-aminolevulinate synthase which in return leads to decreased heme synthesis and decreased production of intermediates that are thought to cause symptoms in AIP. The frequency of acute exacerbations or “attacks” in AIP is highly variable. They are often precipitated by exposure to certain exacerbating factors, such as alcohol (as with this patient), smoking, fasting, stress, and certain medications. These factors are thought to induce heme synthesis (directly or indirectly), increasing the amount of toxic intermediates in affected individuals. The patient should be advised to avoid these triggers in the future.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Chlordiazepoxide therapy** - Chlordiazepoxide is frequently used to treat alcohol withdrawal or to prevent the development of psychomotor agitation. Alcohol withdrawal may present with gastrointestinal disturbances, tachycardia, anxiety, visual hallucinations, and mental status changes. However, a patient undergoing alcohol withdrawal will typically have significant laboratory abnormalities. Also, sensory/motor deficits and auditory hallucinations are not typical features of alcohol withdrawal.

**B - Intravenous immunoglobulin therapy** - IVIG is used to treat autoimmune conditions like Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), which typically presents 1–4 weeks after a URI or GI infection as ascending weakness beginning in the lower extremities and may cause other neurological symptoms such as pain, paresthesias, dysautonomia (e.g., tachycardia), and mental status changes. However, the muscle weakness is typically accompanied by absent or depressed deep tendon reflexes. Also, GBS does not usually produce features of psychosis such as hallucinations or paranoia.

**D - Haloperidol therapy** - Acute antipsychotic therapy with haloperidol may be used in patients who are acutely agitated/psychotic and in those with psychosis due to an underlying psychiatric condition (e.g., schizophrenia). This patient is experiencing paranoia, confusion, and auditory hallucinations, which are consistent with a psychotic disorder. However, primary psychiatric illnesses are not accompanied by true sensory deficits such as paresthesia or gastrointestinal symptoms. Also, this patient is not agitated.

**E - Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid therapy** - EDTA is used to treat lead poisoning, which may present (after acute or chronic exposure) as abdominal pain, constipation, and confusion with peripheral neuropathy. However, the peripheral neuropathy primarily affects motor nerves and results in extensor weakness (“wrist/ankle drop”). Additionally, lead poisoning generally results in anemia (classically with basophilic stippling) and produces neuropsychiatric deficits in memory and concentration, rather than symptoms of psychosis such as hallucinations.

Image File: 912-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5911c7d5ea99d.jpg

**F - Hydroxychloroquine therapy** - Hydroxychloroquine may be used to treat porphyria cutaneatarda (PCT), which primarily presents with dermatological findings, such as blistering and hyperpigmentation, in regions of the body that are frequently exposed to sunlight (e.g., the face, neck, dorsum of the hands, and extensor surfaces of the forearms). PCT is not associated with abdominal pain or neuropsychiatric disturbances.

Image File: 912-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d953f41b9.jpg

**G - Glucose therapy** - Glucose and other carbohydrates may be used to treat mild attacks in acute intermittent porphyria (AIP). Glucose nonspecifically downregulates heme production, but this effect is relatively weak. Targeted therapy is preferred for patients like this one with severe symptoms, such as nausea and vomiting, neuropathy, and psychosis.

**H - Phlebotomy** - Therapeutic phlebotomy may be used to treat conditions causing iron overload or blood hyperviscosity, such as polycythemia vera (PV), which may present with gastrointestinal symptoms and distal parathesias similar to this case. However, PV is also associated with itching or burning sensations (especially after water exposure), visual disturbances, and an elevated RBC count, hemoglobin, and hematocrit on laboratory findings. Phlebotomy may also be used to treat porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT). While this patient likely has a form of porphyria, PCT is unlikely in this patient as it presents with cutaneous symptoms rather than abdominal pain or neuropsychiatric disturbances.

