### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Metabolic acidosis with respiratory acidosis** - This patient's low pH, low bicarbonate levels, and normal pCO2 levels suggest metabolic acidosis as the primary acid-base disorder. This patient's metabolic acidosis is most likely caused by diarrhea, which commonly leads to loss of bicarbonate, although metformin and dapagliflozin can also cause lactic acidosis and ketoacidosis, respectively. In patients with metabolic acidosis, the expected pCO2 concentration is calculated according to the Winter formula to check if the patient has developed the expected respiratory compensation. Patients with a pCO2 higher than expected, as seen here, have concomitant respiratory acidosis. The failed respiratory compensation and consequent mixed acid-base disorder in this patient with morbid obesity are most likely due to obesity hypoventilation syndrome.

Image File: 913-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ea061a446209.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Respiratory acidosis with metabolic compensation** - This patient's low pH, low bicarbonate levels, and normal pCO2 levels suggest metabolic rather than respiratory acidosis as the primary acid-base disorder. In respiratory acidosis with metabolic compensation, both pCO2 and HCO3- levels are expected to be increased, which is not seen here.

**B - Metabolic acidosis with respiratory alkalosis** - This patient's low pH, low bicarbonate levels, and normal pCO2 levels suggest metabolic acidosis as the primary acid-base disorder. However, in patients with concomitant respiratory alkalosis, pCO2 levels are expected to be lower rather than higher than expected.

**C - Respiratory acidosis with metabolic alkalosis** - In patients with respiratory acidosis with metabolic alkalosis, pH is usually within the normal range, and both pCO2 and HCO3- levels are expected to be increased, which is not seen here. This patient's low pH, low bicarbonate levels, and normal pCO2 levels indicate metabolic rather than respiratory acidosis as the primary acid-base disorder.

**D - Metabolic acidosis with respiratory compensation** - This patient's low pH, low bicarbonate levels, and normal pCO2 levels suggest metabolic acidosis as the primary acid-base disorder. However, in patients with accompanying respiratory compensation, pH levels are expected to be within rather than below the normal range, and the pCO2 level would not be higher than expected.

