### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Iron studies** - This patient's presentation including fatigue, symmetric arthralgias affecting metacarpophalangeal joints II and III, along with skin hyperpigmentation and diabetes mellitus (bronze diabetes), suggests hemochromatosis. In premenopausal women, iron loss from menstruation can delay disease progression. In a menopausal woman as this patient, however, hemochromatosis will cause iron accumulation in multiple organs, causing symptoms as seen here. Iron studies in this patient will most likely show serum iron, serum ferritin, and transferrin saturation all increased. For patients with confirmed iron overload, genetic testing for C282Y or H63D mutations of the HFE gene is indicated to confirm the diagnosis of hereditary hemochromatosis.

Image File: 917-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb41220d9c8d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Testing for anti-nuclear antibodies** - Testing for ANAs is performed in the screening for numerous autoimmune diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Although symmetric arthralgias and joint stiffness, as well as fatigue, are common findings in patients with autoimmune rheumatological diseases, this patient lacks other symptoms of ANA-associated conditions such as serositis, malar rash, and systemic involvement of the lungs and kidney as in the case of SLE. Moreover, this patient's skin hyperpigmentation, in conjunction with diabetes mellitus and the characteristic pattern of joint involvement suggests a different diagnosis.

Image File: 917-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d942149bd.jpg

**B - Measurement of serum uric acid concentration** - Elevated serum uric acid levels support the diagnosis of gout, which also presents with arthralgia and the restriction of movement of smaller joints. However, acute gouty arthritis typically causes acute excruciating pain, redness, and warmth of a single joint, and often occurs after an inciting event (e.g., heavy alcohol consumption), none of which is present in this patient.

**C - Measurement of serum calcium concentration** - Hypercalcemia is a common finding in patients with pseudogout, which would also present with arthralgia and joint stiffness. However, this patient lacks other typical findings of pseudogout such as inflammatory pain of a single, large joint, in addition to erythema. Moreover, this patient has a 3-month history of progressive pain in her hands. Pseudogout attacks, however, are typically limited to only a few days.

**D - Dorsopalmar x-ray of both hands** - Dorsopalmar x-ray of both hands is indicated in patients with suspected osteoarthritis. Although joint pain and stiffness in both hands are common findings of osteoarthritis, this condition typically presents with arthritis of the PIPs, DIPs, and the first carpometacarpal joints. This patient's combination of skin hyperpigmentation, diabetes mellitus, and pattern of joint involvement suggests a different diagnosis, for which a dorsopalmar x-ray would not be the best diagnostic approach.

Image File: 917-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60f6c3cca9933.jpg

**E - Synovial fluid analysis** - Arthrocentesis with synovial fluid analysis is used to determine the underlying cause of joint effusion and/or signs of joint inflammation. Important indications for synovial fluid analysis include suspected septic arthritis, gout, or pseudogout, all of which typically present with joint pain and restriction of movement, as seen here. However, both septic arthritis and crystal-induced arthritis usually affect no more than one joint and would present with other symptoms such as fever, erythema, and warmth of the joint.

**F - Testing for parvovirus B19 antibodies** - Testing for parvovirus B19 antibodies is performed in adults with suspected parvovirus B19 infection. Unlike in children where parvovirus B19 infection typically presents as erythema infectiosum, in adults this infection more commonly presents with symptoms of symmetric polyarthritis, such as arthralgias and limited range of motion in the fingers, often in the absence of a rash. However, a parvovirus B19 infection would not explain this patient's skin hyperpigmentation, diabetes mellitus, and specific pattern of joint involvement.

**H - Testing for rheumatoid factors** - Testing for rheumatoid factors is performed in the screening for numerous rheumatological diseases, predominantly rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Symmetric arthralgias, stiffness in the metacarpophalangeal joints, and fatigue are common features in RA. However, this patient lacks other typical findings of rheumatological diseases, such as wrist and PIP involvement, and joint deformities (e.g., swan neck deformity) as in the case of RA. Moreover, RA would not explain this patient's skin hyperpigmentation in conjunction with diabetes mellitus.

Image File: 917-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_509be9f3bf2a7.jpg

