### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Antibody serology** - Anti-Ro/SSA antibody and anti-La/SSB antibody are present in about 70% of patients with SS and confirm the diagnosis if seen in combination with typical clinical features of this condition (e.g., sicca syndrome). Other autoantibodies seen in patients with SS include antinuclear antibodies, which are positive in up to 97% of cases, and rheumatoid factor, which is positive in > 90% of cases of secondary SS (i.e., secondary to autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus). In patients without serological evidence of autoimmunity or concomitant autoimmune disease, labial salivary gland biopsy is essential to confirm or exclude the diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Parotid gland biopsy** - Labial (rather than parotid) salivary gland biopsy is an accurate test for SS and would show sialadenitis with dense focal lymphocytic infiltrations. However, a salivary gland biopsy is only necessary to confirm the diagnosis in patients without evidence of systemic autoimmunity. Therefore, a less invasive test should be performed first.

**B - Upper endoscopy** - Upper endoscopy can be performed in patients with dysphagia, which this patient has. Dysphagia is often seen in patients with SS due to xerostomia. However, upper endoscopy would only exclude other causes of dysphagia (e.g., malignancy), which is not sufficient to confirm the diagnosis of SS. Other gastrointestinal manifestations of SS include dyspepsia and reflux esophagitis.

**C - Urinalysis** - In patients with SS, urinalysis can show signs of glomerulonephritis or interstitial nephritis (e.g., proteinuria, hematuria, red blood cell casts), which are possible extraglandular vasculitic manifestations of SS. However, vasculitic manifestations only occur in approx. 10% of patients with SS. Therefore, urinalysis is not the most appropriate test to confirm the diagnosis.

**D - Sialometry test** - Sialometry is a noninvasive test to measure saliva flow and can quantify salivary hypofunction in patients with xerostomia due to Sjogren syndrome (SS), which is seen here. While sialometry can support the diagnosis of SS, it is mainly performed in research settings and not generally used to diagnose SS.

