### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - There is a positively correlated linear association between maternal BMI and childhood BMI** - The correlation coefficient (r) of 0.45 suggests a moderate positive linear correlation between maternal BMI and childhood BMI. An r < 0 implies that there is a negative linear correlation between two variables while an r > 0 implies that there is a positive correlation. The magnitude of the r coefficient represents how closely the data fits a linear relationship (r ranges from -1 to 1; a value of 0.45 is a moderate fit, while a value of 1 would be seen in a perfectly linear positive correlation).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - There is no association between maternal HbA1c and childhood BMI** - An examination of the scatter plot shows that there is a curvilinear (parabolic) relationship between maternal HbA1c and childhood BMI. The correlation coefficient (r) is a measure of the strength and directionality of a linear relationship between two variables. The small and statistically insignificant r coefficient in this scatter plot suggests that there is no linear relationship between the two variables. This does not, however, mean that there is no relationship at all.

**B - Maternal BMI is a stronger predictor of childhood BMI than maternal HbA1c** - The fact that the correlation coefficient (r) has larger magnitude for the first scatter plot (r = 0.45 versus r = 0.03) suggests that the data fits a linear relationship better than the second scatter plot. Similarly, the smaller p-value (p < 0.01 versus p = 0.23) implies that the linear correlation is statistically significant. However, neither of these values measures the strength of the association between the two variables.

**C - Higher maternal HbA1c leads to increased childhood BMI** - Neither the magnitude of the correlation coefficient (r), nor the level of statistical significance (p-value) have any bearing on causality. Correlation does not imply causation.

**D - An increase in maternal BMI is associated with a decrease in childhood BMI** - The correlation coefficient (r) for the scatter plot showing maternal BMI and childhood BMI is 0.45. When the correlation coefficient is positive, it means that the there is a positive correlation between the two variables. For an increase in maternal BMI to be associated with a decrease in childhood BMI, the correlation coefficient would have to be negative.

**E - The association between maternal BMI and childhood BMI has a steeper slope than maternal HbA1c and childhood BMI** - The fact that the r coefficient has larger magnitude for the first scatter plot (r = 0.45 versus r = 0.03) suggests that its data fits a linear relationship better than the second scatter plot. The r coefficient is a measure of the strength and directionality of a linear relationship between two variables. However, it has no bearing on the slope of the line of best fit (which is not shown in these scatter plots).

