### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Systemic lupus erythematosus** - This middle-aged female patient presents with signs and symptoms indicating abnormalities in various systems: neuropsychiatric (features of psychosis), mucocutaneous (rash on sun-exposed skin, oral ulcers), hematologic (anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia), and cardiac (signs of acute pericarditis: high-pitched grating systolic sound, diffuse ST-segment elevations, PR-segment elevation with ST-segment depression in aVR). This multisystem involvement together with a false-positive VDRL (with negative FTA-ABS) raises suspicion for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The patient's negative urine toxicology and reassuring electrolytes, glucose, liver, and thyroid function studies further support this diagnosis. In patients with symptoms suggestive of SLE, ANA titer screening is recommended. If the ANA titer is ≥ 1:80, patients can be evaluated according to the ACR classification criteria for SLE to support the diagnostic process. Other neuropsychiatric manifestations of SLE include seizures and delirium. Management of SLE includes induction therapy with a systemic glucocorticoid and maintenance therapy with hydroxychloroquine with or without methotrexate or azathioprine.

Image File: 920-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dfa49d483e12.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Porphyria cutanea tarda** - Porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT) manifests with skin lesions on sun-exposed skin (e.g., face and neck, dorsum of the hand) in a distribution similar to this patient's presentation. However, patients with PCT typically have fragile skin that blisters with sun exposure or trauma rather than mild eczematous eruptions like those seen in this patient. Healing of these lesions results in scarring and milia formation and can cause areas of hyper- and/or hypopigmentation. Furthermore, PCT commonly manifests with hepatic injury and transaminitis, which are not seen here. Finally, pancytopenia, pericarditis, and psychotic features are not typical manifestations of PCT.

Image File: 920-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d953f41b9.jpg

**C - Behcet disease** - Oral ulcers and skin lesions may raise suspicion for Behcet disease. However, Behcet disease typically manifests with erythema nodosum, papulopustular lesions, or dermatographism rather than eczematous eruptions on sun-exposed skin areas, which are seen here. Moreover, further typical manifestations of Behcet disease include genital ulcers and uveitis, neither of which are seen in this patient.

**D - Chronic borreliosis** - Chronic borreliosis (i.e., late Lyme disease) can manifest with neuropsychiatric (e.g., psychosis) and cardiac abnormalities (e.g., pericarditis). However, late Lyme disease typically causes large joint arthritis, which is not seen here. Furthermore, oral ulcers, pancytopenia, and a positive VDRL are not expected findings in Lyme disease. Finally, while a rash is characteristic of early Lyme disease (e.g., erythema migrans), it is not a typical feature of late Lyme disease.

Image File: 920-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fc7d0f88f7d9.jpg

**E - Tertiary syphilis** - Psychosis in a patient with a positive VDRL may raise suspicion for late (parenchymal) neurosyphilis, a manifestation of tertiary syphilis. This patient, however, lacks the other features of late neurosyphilis, such as Argyll Robertson pupil and tabes dorsalis. Moreover, rash, while characteristic of secondary syphilis, is not a typical feature of tertiary syphilis, which instead manifests with gummas. Furthermore, this patient has a negative FTA-ABS and her symptoms are more consistent with another disease that can cause a false-positive VDRL.

Image File: 920-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fec75bbe811f.jpg

**F - Whipple disease** - Whipple disease can manifest with neurologic and cardiac symptoms, both of which are seen here. However, neurologic findings more commonly seen in Whipple disease include dementia, myoclonus, ataxia, and ophthalmoplegia. Although pericarditis (and myocarditis) has been associated with Whipple disease, endocarditis is the most commonly seen cardiac manifestation. Moreover, Whipple disease typically causes intestinal manifestations (e.g., abdominal pain and malabsorption) and is commonly associated with migratory arthralgias of the large joints.

