### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Rickets** - The vitamin D content of breast milk is not considered to be high enough to prevent complications from developing in infants. Therefore, the FDA currently recommends that all exclusively breastfed infants receive 400 international units of vitamin D supplementation per day. This supplementation protects against hypocalcemia and rickets, a disease of bone deformities in children due to a deficiency of vitamin D. Rickets is characterized by impaired calcification of the bones, delayed closure of the fontanelles, frontal bossing, prominence of costochondral junctions (“rachitic rosary”), and genu valgum or genu varum. Children with rickets present with varying degrees of pain, poor growth, motor delays, and an increased risk of infections.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Scaly dermatitis** - A deficiency of niacin, also known as pellagra, could result in scaly dermatitis, diarrhea, and eventually neurological symptoms (e.g., dementia). However, niacin does not typically need to be supplemented in infants' diets as adequate amounts are found in both breast milk and in most formulas. In the absence of comorbidities (e.g., malnutrition, Hartnup disease), pellagra is unlikely to develop in this patient.

**B - Intracranial bleed** - A deficiency in vitamin K greatly increases the risk of developing an intracranial bleed in early infancy. All newborn infants receive an injection of intramuscular vitamin K at birth to prevent this deficiency. This patient has already received this intervention as part of standard hospital care, and no more supplementation is necessary. Although levels of vitamin K in breast milk are low, most infants do not require additional supplementation after the initial injection, unless comorbidities are present (e.g., chronic diarrhea or long-term antibiotic treatment).

**C - Microcytic anemia** - Underlying iron deficiency can manifest as microcytic anemia. Premature infants have lower iron stores and increased demand, and thus require supplementation in addition to the iron found in breast milk. However, exclusively breastfed infants who were not born prematurely, like this patient, should receive adequate iron from breast milk alone. Formula-fed infants, however, should receive iron supplementation if their formula is not iron-fortified.

**D - Peripheral neuropathy** - Vitamin B12 deficiency can lead to peripheral neuropathy. However, most breastfed infants receive adequate vitamin B12 from their mother's breast milk. Vitamin B12 supplementation during infancy is typically only required when the patient's mother follows a strict vegan diet because vitamin B12 mostly comes from animal products (e.g., meat, fish, and dairy).

**F - Scurvy** - Scurvy, caused by a deficiency of vitamin C, leads to impaired collagen synthesis that would manifest with petechiae, hyperkeratosis, and coiled hairs. Vitamin C does not typically need to be supplemented in infants' diets as adequate amounts are found in both breast milk and in most formulas. Therefore, in the absence of severe malnutrition or malabsorption, this patient is unlikely to need additional vitamin C supplementation.

