### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Ibuprofen therapy** - This patient had a simple febrile seizure (a generalized seizure lasting < 15 minutes) due to herpangina. Simple febrile seizures do not require specific diagnostic workup if the cause of fever is known and neurologic examination is unremarkable. Diagnosis of herpangina is established clinically and treatment consists of supportive care only, since the condition is typically self-limited. Ibuprofen (alternatively, acetaminophen) is the treatment of choice for symptomatic relief of herpangina as well as for fever reduction after a febrile seizure. Children with herpangia who are dehydrated (as evidenced by, e.g., prolonged capillary refill time) due to decreased oral intake should be admitted to hospital and receive parenteral fluids.

Image File: 923-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9272a639.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Vancomycin and ceftriaxone therapy** - Vancomycin and ceftriaxone are the empiric therapy of choice for patients between 1 month and 50 years of age with suspected bacterial meningitis. While meningitis can manifest with fever and seizures, further features such as headache, nuchal rigidity, and photophobia are also expected. This patient with a normal neurologic examination more likely had a simple febrile seizure (a generalized seizure lasting < 15 minutes) due to herpangina, for which antibiotic therapy is not indicated.

**B - CT scan of the head** - A CT scan of the head is indicated in patients with suspected meningitis and signs of elevated intracranial pressure (e.g., focal neurologic deficits) prior to a lumbar puncture, or after a complex febrile seizure to rule out structural causes. While meningitis can manifest with fever and new-onset seizures, further features such as headache, nuchal rigidity, and photophobia are also expected. This patient with a normal neurologic examination more likely had a simple febrile seizure (i.e., a generalized seizure lasting < 15 minutes) due to herpangina; therefore, a CT scan of the head is not appropriate.

**D - Throat swab and penicillin therapy** - A throat swab for a rapid GAS antigen detection test and empiric penicillin therapy are indicated in patients with suspected GAS tonsillopharyngitis, which also manifests with sudden onset of fever, sore throat, and tonsillopharyngeal erythema. However, GAS tonsillopharyngitis is typically associated with gray-white tonsillar exudates and edema rather than multiple small, white vesicles like the ones seen here. Moreover, enlarged tender anterior cervical lymph nodes would be expected. This patient presents with herpangina, for which a throat swab is not required and penicillin therapy is ineffective.

Image File: 923-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59ea045b885fd.jpg

**E - Lumbar puncture** - A lumbar puncture (LP) is indicated in patients with suspected meningitis or encephalitis, both of which can manifest with fever and new-onset seizures. However, further features (e.g., headache, nuchal rigidity, photophobia, altered mental status, focal neurologic deficits) are also expected. This patient with a normal neurologic examination more likely had a simple febrile seizure (a generalized seizure lasting < 15 minutes) due to herpangina; LP is not indicated in patients who appear well with a known cause of fever.

**F - Acyclovir therapy** - Acyclovir therapy is indicated in herpetic gingivostomatitis, which also manifests with painful, small oral lesions, fever, and sore throat. In addition, herpetic gingivostomatitis can be complicated by HSV encephalitis, which can also manifest with seizures. However, the lesions in herpetic gingivostomatitis are commonly located on the anterior oropharynx, tongue, lips, and perioral skin (as opposed to the posterior oropharynx in this child) and are preceded by a prodromal phase with several days of fever and malaise. Furthermore, this patient does not have any other expected symptoms of HSV encephalitis (e.g., altered mental status, focal neurologic deficits). More likely is a simple febrile seizure due to herpangina, for which acyclovir is not indicated.

Image File: 923-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5559ef94002b3.jpg

