### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Hypoxia** - In patients with hypoxia, the lack of oxygen supply to the affected tissue results in an anaerobic metabolism and the production of lactic acid, an unmeasured organic anion that lowers pH. This subsequently causes metabolic acidosis with an increased anion gap. Obese patients who undergo bariatric surgery frequently develop temporary postoperative hypoxemia, as seen in this patient with pO2 of 54 mm Hg. While the pathophysiology behind this is not completely understood, atelectasis-associated ventilation-perfusion mismatch is likely to play a role.

Image File: 924-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d65489d19db4.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Blind loop syndrome** - This patient underwent Roux-en-Y bypass, which puts him at risk of developing blind loop syndrome. However, blind loop syndrome is a long-term complication of gastric surgery that would not be expected to develop within 2 hours of surgery. Furthermore, it typically does not result in a high anion gap metabolic acidosis. Instead, patients may develop non-anion gap metabolic acidosis from chronic diarrhea and subsequent loss of bicarbonate.

**B - Diabetic ketoacidosis** - Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) can manifest during times of increased insulin demand (e.g., surgery) and typically causes high anion gap metabolic acidosis with respiratory compensation, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain. This patient's blood glucose, however, is normal, which makes DKA unlikely. Moreover, DKA is more common in individuals with type 1 diabetes mellitus rather than type 2 diabetes mellitus and also manifests with ketonuria, polyuria, polydipsia, signs of volume depletion, neurological abnormalities, and a characteristic fruity breath, none of which are seen here.

**C - Alcohol withdrawal** - Alcohol withdrawal can result in metabolic acidosis with an elevated anion gap in malnourished patients with alcohol use disorder, especially those with a history of binge drinking. During alcohol ingestion, alcoholic carbohydrates are metabolized into energy, inhibiting fatty acid metabolism. However, as a response to alcohol withdrawal, there is a surge in catecholamines and cortisol which augments the metabolism of a fasting state. Consequently, lipolysis and ketone acid production are increased, resulting in metabolic acidosis with an increased anion gap (alcoholic ketoacidosis). Although this man's alcohol consumption is borderline high, he does not have any other signs of alcohol withdrawal (e.g., tremors, altered mental state, or hallucinations), nor is he malnourished, making alcohol withdrawal an unlikely etiology of his acid-base disturbance.

**D - Vomiting** - This patient has vomited several times, which can result in acid-base disturbances. Repeated vomiting usually results in metabolic alkalosis rather than acidosis. Normally, gastric parietal cells produce H+ and HCO3-. H+ is secreted into the stomach lumen along with Cl-, and HCO3- is secreted into the blood. During digestion, HCO3- is secreted back into the duodenum to maintain normal plasma pH. In vomiting, however, acidic stomach contents leave the body and the neutralizing HCO3- secretion does not occur, resulting in an accumulation of HCO3- in the blood and, subsequently, in metabolic alkalosis.

**E - Dumping syndrome** - Dumping syndrome is a potential complication of gastric surgery, including Roux-en-Y bypass surgery. However, acid-base disturbances are not a typical feature of this condition. Furthermore, it would be highly unlikely for this patient to experience dumping syndrome just 2 hours after surgery, especially given that he has likely not eaten anything yet.

