### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Vitamin C** - Vitamin C toxicity can result in calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis because vitamin C is metabolized to oxalate, and an increased serum oxalate concentration predisposes to stone formation. In particular, men with risk factors for nephrolithiasis, such as this patient with gout and type 2 diabetes mellitus, are at higher risk of stone formation secondary to excess vitamin C intake. Additional manifestations of vitamin C toxicity include dental erosions (due to the demineralizing activity of vitamin C), nausea, and vomiting, as seen in this patient. Diarrhea and fatigue may also be seen.

Image File: 926-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a394e5ec8a33.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Vitamin A** - Acute vitamin A toxicity, which can occur due to excessive supplement intake, can manifest with nausea and vomiting. However, it also typically causes vertigo and blurry vision, which this patient does not have. In addition, vitamin A toxicity is not associated with dental erosions or nephrolithiasis.

**B - Phosphate** - Hyperphosphatemia predisposes to nephrolithiasis. However, calcium phosphate stones appear on urine microscopy as wedge-shaped prisms, not bipyramidal, envelope-shaped crystals. Common causes of hyperphosphatemia include acute kidney injury and hypoparathyroidism, neither of which is seen in this patient. Moreover, his history of taking large amounts of a multivitamin supplement increases his risk of nephrolithiasis from toxicity of another substance.

Image File: 926-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cf64eb54a11c.jpg

**C - Vitamin B3** - Vitamin B3 toxicity can cause hyperuricemia, which predisposes to nephrolithiasis. However, uric acid stones appear on urine microscopy as rhomboid-shaped crystals, not bipyramidal, envelope-shaped crystals. Moreover, this patient does not have other typical manifestations of vitamin B3 toxicity, such as facial flushing (due to prostaglandin release) and hyperglycemia. His history of taking large amounts of a multivitamin supplement increases his risk of nephrolithiasis from toxicity of another substance.

**D - Vitamin E** - Vitamin E toxicity is rare and typically associated with excess supplementation. It can cause bleeding due to inhibition of platelet aggregation and platelet adhesion as well as an alteration in warfarin metabolism. In infants, vitamin E toxicity has been associated with an increased risk of necrotizing enterocolitis. It is not known to cause nausea, vomiting, dental erosions, or nephrolithiasis.

**F - Uric acid** - Hyperuricemia, as seen in patients with gout, predisposes to nephrolithiasis. However, uric acid stones appear on urine microscopy as rhomboid-shaped crystals, not bipyramidal, envelope-shaped crystals. In addition, this patient takes allopurinol, a medication that reduces uric acid production. Moreover, his history of taking large amounts of a multivitamin supplement increases his risk of nephrolithiasis from toxicity of another substance.

Image File: 926-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a508fb3c3f0a.jpg

