### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Respiratory fatigue** - Per the Winter formula, a pCO2 of 24–28 mm Hg would reflect an appropriate respiratory compensation for this patient's metabolic acidosis. Instead, this patient's pCO2 is 36 mm Hg, which indicates the presence of a respiratory acidosis in addition to the metabolic acidosis. Respiratory acidosis is caused by hypoventilation (e.g., from respiratory fatigue in critically ill patients), which leads to carbon dioxide retention.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hyperventilation** - Hyperventilation results in respiratory alkalosis, which manifests with a lower-than-expected pCO2. This patient's pCO2 is higher than predicted by the Winter formula.

**B - Primary adrenal insufficiency** - Patients with primary adrenal insufficiency who experience an acute stressor, such as a serious infection, have an increased risk of developing shock as a result of adrenal crisis. However, primary adrenal insufficiency typically causes hyponatremia and hyperkalemia (due to hypoaldosteronism), which are not seen here. Additionally, this patient's pCO2 is higher than predicted by the Winter formula, which indicates a secondary acid-base disturbance. Primary adrenal insufficiency would not cause this secondary disturbance.

**C - Salicylate toxicity** - Salicylate toxicity typically presents with hyperthermia, altered mental status, and metabolic acidosis. However, salicylates also cause respiratory alkalosis (due to increased respiratory rate resulting from activation of the respiratory center of the medulla), which manifests with a lower-than-expected pCO2 value. This patient's pCO2, however, is higher than predicted by the Winter formula.

**E - Diabetic ketoacidosis** - Diabetic ketoacidosis can cause hypotension and altered mental status, as seen in this patient, and is often precipitated by an infection. DKA is the initial manifestation of type 1 diabetes mellitus in approximately 30% of cases. However, hallmark symptoms of DKA (e.g., polyuria, polydipsia, nausea, and vomiting) are not seen here. Also, this patient's pCO2 is higher than the Winter formula would predict. DKA often manifests with hyperventilation, which leads to a lower-than-expected pCO2.

