### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Inadequate number of participants in the study** - A low sample size leads to greater variance of data and increases the type 2 error rate (denoted as “β”). Since β is inversely related to statistical power (1 - β), the higher the β, the lower the statistical power. To increase the statistical power, investigators must decrease β by increasing the sample size in the study and/or making more precise measurements of the outcome of interest.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Large difference between the mean immune responses** - The difference between the mean immune responses in the study is the effect size. Large effect sizes yield a high rather than a low statistical power.

**B - Low probability of a type 2 error** - The probability of a type 2 error (denoted as “β”), is inversely related to the statistical power of a study. A low β would, therefore, lead to a high rather than a low statistical power.

**D - High precision of the tests used to measure the immune response** - A test with high precision will reduce the number of random errors in a study. This will narrow the standard deviation of the mean immune response in each arm and increase the statistical power of a study, not decrease it.

**E - High probability of a type 1 error** - The probability of a type 1 error (denoted as “α”), is inversely related to the type 2 error rate (denoted as “β”). Because β is inversely related to statistical power, a higher α would result in a higher statistical power.

