### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Require all staff and visitors to wear a surgical mask within 6 feet of the patient** - Rubella is a viral infection that is spread by droplet transmission. Therefore, in addition to following standard precautions (e.g., hand disinfection), all staff and visitors who interact with a patient with rubella should adopt droplet precautions, such as wearing a surgical mask when within 6 feet of the patient. The patient should be kept in isolation or in a room with those who have the same illness, and a mask should be placed on the patient when the patient is transported out of their room for any reason. Other diseases that require droplet precautions include Neisseria meningitidis, Bordetella pertussis, Haemophilus influenzae type b, and influenza virus infections. Droplet precautions should be in place until the end of the infectious period; i.e., 7 days after the onset of rash in the case of rubella.

Image File: 931-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb5080de337f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - Require all staff and visitors to wear gloves and a gown before entering the patient's room** - In this patient with postnatal rubella, the use of gloves and a gown is required as a part of standard precautions (e.g., when performing procedures during which contact with body fluids is anticipated) but contact precautions (e.g., wearing gloves and a gown before entering the patient's room) are not required. Contact precautions are necessary for the care of patients who have diseases spread by contact transmission such as congenital rubella infection and varicella.

Image File: 931-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f22ec1f44e76.jpg

**C - Require all staff and visitors to wear an N95 respirator before entering the patient's room** - Airborne precautions (e.g., wearing an N95 respirator) are necessary when caring for patients with diseases spread by airborne transmission, such as measles and varicella. These diseases most commonly occur in patients whose vaccinations are not up-to-date. This patient has rubella, which does not require airborne precautions.

Image File: 931-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb90ff11db7d.jpg

**D - Transfer the patient to a negative pressure room** - Airborne precautions (e.g., isolating the patient in a negative pressure room) are necessary when caring for patients with diseases spread by airborne transmission such as measles and varicella, which most commonly occur in individuals whose vaccinations are not up-to-date. This patient has rubella, which does not require airborne precautions.

Image File: 931-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb90ff11db7d.jpg

**E - No further isolation precautions are required** - This patient has rubella, which requires droplet precautions until the end of the infectious period; i.e., 7 days after the onset of rash. Patients with erythema infectiosum (EI), on the other hand, are no longer considered contagious once the exanthem develops and do not require any further isolation precautions.

Image File: 931-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ebbc451dc09a.jpg

