### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Cystic fibrosis** - Patients with cystic fibrosis present with multi-organ disease (especially of the lungs and the pancreas) due to a hyperviscosity of the exocrine secretions. This patient has a history of chronic respiratory tract disease (productive cough, recurrent respiratory tract infections, and chronic nasal congestion), which has caused cor pulmonale to develop and result in right heart failure (pedal edema, dyspnea, elevated JVP, hepatomegaly, and a loud S2). His fatty stools are a sign of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency. Moreover, failure to thrive (< 5th percentile for height- and weight-for-age), clubbing, and scoliosis are typical in CF, making it the most likely diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Myocarditis** - Myocarditis in children/adolescents can cause cardiac failure and is most commonly caused by a viral infection (e.g., coxsackie virus, adenovirus, parvovirus B19, EBV, CMV). So a history of a recent respiratory/gastrointestinal illness which precedes the onset of cardiac complaints is commonly present. However, this child has a history of chronic respiratory complaints and additional clinical features (steatorrhea, failure to thrive) that cannot be explained by myocarditis.

**B - Extrinsic restrictive lung disease** - Although this child has idiopathic scoliosis (an etiological factor for the development of extrinsic restrictive lung disease) and cor pulmonale (a complication of chronic restrictive lung disease), extrinsic restrictive lung disease would not explain this patient's steatorrhea or recurrent infections. Moreover, the cough in restrictive lung diseases is characteristically dry.

**C - Minimal change disease** - Minimal change disease (MCD) can cause dependent edema and failure to thrive (due to proteinuria). However, cor pulmonale, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, chronic respiratory tract disease, clubbing) are not seen in nephrotic syndrome. In addition, the onset of MCD is usually acute, often following a mild respiratory tract infection, and patients typically also have periorbital edema and frothy urine.

**D - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy** - Patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), the most common inherited heart disease, may either be asymptomatic or present with features of left heart failure (angina pectoris, exertional dyspnea/palpitations, rales), rather than right heart failure (pedal edema, hepatomegaly, elevated jugular venous distention). HCM is not a cause of steatorrhea and failure to thrive, suggesting an alternative diagnosis in this child.

**E - Protein malnutrition** - Severe protein malnutrition can result in dependent edema, failure to thrive, recurrent infections, and rarely, heart failure. However, pure protein malnutrition does not cause steatorrhea or clubbing. A child with protein malnutrition severe enough to cause heart failure would also have other significant clinical features, such as bradycardia (rather than tachycardia), dry, brittle hair and nails, dry skin, and redundant skin folds.

**F - α-1 antitrypsin deficiency** - Patients with α1-antitrypsin deficiency can also present with respiratory complaints (chronic productive cough, dyspnea, and fatigue due to emphysema), failure to thrive, and cor pulmonale. However, features of liver disease (hepatitis or cirrhosis) would also be expected. Also, α1-antitrypsin deficiency does not cause steatorrhea.

**G - Goodpasture syndrome** - Patients with Goodpasture syndrome can present with respiratory complaints, such as dyspnea and chronic cough (due to diffuse alveolar hemorrhage) and edema (due to the proteinuria of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis). However, pancreatic involvement (as evidenced by steatorrhea) and systemic symptoms (fatigue and failure to thrive) are characteristically absent in patients with Goodpasture syndrome.

