### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Vitamin D** - People who follow a vegan diet have a higher risk of developing vitamin D deficiency compared to the general population. This is due to the fact that a vegan diet does not include dairy, which is a major dietary source of vitamin D. Therefore, individuals who transition to a vegan diet should be advised to consume sufficient amounts of vitamin D-fortified foods (e.g., plant-based milk alternatives, cereal, juices) to achieve the recommended daily dose of vitamin D. They should also be counseled on the importance of exposure to sunlight, another major source of vitamin D, to boost the endogenous production of vitamin D, which is often deficient in individuals who live in northern latitudes (like this patient from Montana), especially during the Winter season.

Apart from vitamin D, a vegan diet is often deficient in calcium, vitamin B12, and iron. Patients should be counseled on supplementation to avoid nutritional deficiencies.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Folate** - Although folate can be found in meat (especially liver), the main sources of folate are leafy green vegetables. It is highly unlikely that this girl will develop folate deficiency after transitioning to a well-balanced vegan diet. Important causes of folate deficiency include severe malnutrition (e.g., “tea and toast” diet, chronic alcohol use), malabsorption (e.g., intestinal resection, celiac disease), increased folate demand (e.g., pregnancy, hemolytic anemia), and medication use (e.g., methotrexate, phenytoin).

**B - Fiber** - Fiber is found in a large number of fruits (e.g., prunes, apples), vegetables (e.g., beans, lentils), and grains (e.g., oatmeal, wheat). It is highly unlikely this girl will develop fiber deficiency after transitioning to a well-balanced vegan diet.

**C - Phenylalanine** - Although phenylalanine, an essential amino acid, is mainly found in animal products, such as meat, eggs, and dairy, it can also be found in plant-based products such as nuts, soybean, squash, and wheat. It is unlikely this girl will develop deficiency of any amino acids after transitioning to a well-balanced vegan diet.

**D - Vitamin B6** - Although vitamin B6 can be found in meat (especially poultry and liver), the main sources of vitamin B6 are nuts, whole grains, and vegetables. It is highly unlikely this girl will develop vitamin B6 deficiency after transitioning to a well-balanced vegan diet. Important causes of vitamin B6 deficiency include severe malnutrition, chronic alcohol use, and medication use (e.g., isoniazid, hydralazine).

