### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Borrelia burgdorferi** - Borrelia burgdorferi is a tick-borne spirochete bacteria that causes Lyme disease and is the most likely cause of this patient's joint complaints. He lives in an area in which Lyme disease is endemic (i.e., the Northeast), has an occupation that regularly exposes him to ticks, and had a rash (i.e., erythema chronicum migrans) that subsided two months before. In combination with migratory and intermittent polyarthritis in the large joints following the rash, this history should raise suspicion of early disseminated Lyme disease. The nonspecific arthrocentesis findings of negative Gram stain and leukocytosis with increased neutrophils are consistent with Lyme arthritis. At this point, two-step serological testing is indicated to confirm the diagnosis: The screening test ELISA should be followed by a confirmatory Western blot test to detect IgG and IgM antibodies against Borrelia.

Image File: 937-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9459c2d1.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Osteoarthritis** - Osteoarthritis commonly affects the knees. However, rather than having an episodic, migratory course, as is the case in this patient, pain associated with osteoarthritis remains in the affected joints and typically worsens toward the end of the day or following physical activity. This patient also does not belong to the typical age group affected by osteoarthritis, a condition which most commonly affects individuals > 65 years. Furthermore, the arthrocentesis findings here indicate an infectious rather than a degenerative process.

**C - Rheumatoid arthritis** - Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterized by morning stiffness, symmetrical joint involvement, and multiple extra-articular manifestations, none of which is seen in this patient. Synovial fluid analysis in RA also usually shows a leukocyte count of < 50,000/mm3.

**D - Neisseria gonorrhoeae** - Neisseria gonorrhoeae is the most common cause of septic arthritis in sexually active young adults as a result of disseminated gonococcal infection (DGI). Common manifestations of this condition include fever, chills, progressive rash, migratory polyarthralgia, and/or tenosynovitis. Isolated purulent gonococcal arthritis typically involves infection of a single joint (i.e., monoarthritis) and is characterized by an acute onset and course, neither of which is consistent with this patient's history. Organisms can only occasionally be seen on Gram stain and cultures of the synovial fluid are positive in less than half of cases. Although this patient has signs of migratory polyarthritis, rash, and arthrocentesis findings suggesting an infectious origin, the area in which he lives and outdoor occupation make another etiology more likely.

**E - Staphylococcus aureus** - Staphylococcus aureus is the most common cause of septic arthritis. Septic arthritis typically involves infection of a single joint (i.e., monoarthritis) and is characterized by an acute onset and course, neither of which is consistent with this patient's history. Although the arthrocentesis findings suggest an infectious process, the area in which this patient lives, his occupation, and the negative Gram stain make another etiology more likely.

**F - Campylobacter jejuni** - Campylobacter jejuni is one of the causative organisms of reactive arthritis. Reactive arthritis is an autoimmune condition that can lead to arthritis accompanied by conjunctivitis and urethritis. It typically occurs after a bacterial infection of the gastrointestinal or urinary tract. The arthrocentesis findings here do indicate an infectious process. However, this patient has no additional eye or urinary symptoms, nor does he report a recent gastrointestinal infection.

