### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Actinomyces israelii** - Actinomyces israelii is a gram-positive, non-acid fast, rod-shaped anaerobe and part of normal oral flora. It causes cervical actinomycosis, which typically presents as a progressively enlarging mandibular nodule after oral surgery, as in this patient. The nodules can develop into purulent draining fistulae, which contain Actinomyces in characteristic yellow “sulfur” granules. The term “sulfur granules” reflects their yellow color, not their composition. Penicillin is the drug of choice for patients with actinomycosis. Surgical resection is indicated for patients who do not respond to antibiotic treatment.

Image File: 938-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f637cd5592ca.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Mucor irregularis** - Mucor irregularis is a cause of mucormycosis, a rare fungal sinusitis in immunocompromised patients. Mucor species are fungi and appear microscopically as broad, nonseptate hyphae with characteristic wide-angle branching. Although it is rapidly progressive and may affect the face, it typically presents with sinus infiltration in patients with diabetic ketoacidosis or neutropenia, not recent oral surgery.

**B - Acinetobacter baumannii** - Acinetobacter baumannii is an aerobic bacteria that causes severe infections, especially in burns or nosocomial infections. It is rod-shaped like the bacteria in this patient, but it is also gram-negative and catalase-positive. Acinetobacter species are highly resistant, found in soil, and are not associated with recent oral surgery.

**D - Streptococcus pneumoniae** - Streptococcus pneumoniae is an alpha-hemolytic diplococcus that is an important cause of pneumonia, meningitis, and otitis media. It is gram-positive and catalase-negative like this patient's bacteria, but it is not filamentous and does not typically cause cutaneous infections. It colonizes the nasopharynx but does not present as a purulent facial nodule after oral surgery.

**E - Nocardia asteroides** - Nocardia asteroides is a gram-positive filamentous bacteria that can cause cutaneous infections, as in this patient. However, it is also aerobic and weakly acid-fast and would therefore stain with carbol fuchsin. It would not be associated with recent oral surgery as in this patient, but with outdoor exposure, as it is found in soil. Nocardia classically presents with pulmonary infections in immunocompromised patients.

Image File: 938-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_598b701b28f17.jpg

