### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Race** - Although sarcoidosis is idiopathic and can occur in any age group, gender, and race, two key epidemiological groups in which the disease prevails are individuals of African descent and women ages 25–35 and 45–65 years. There should be a high degree of suspicion of sarcoidosis in young or middle-aged African American women with respiratory difficulties, especially with a characteristic rash on the face.

Image File: 944-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dfa3cb4e09c8.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Exposure to beryllium** - Beryllium is a rare alkaline earth metal used in aerospace and manufacturing and predisposes to berylliosis. This patient's occupational history and confirmed noncaseating granuloma are consistent with beryllium exposure. However, bronchoalveolar lavage would show a decreased CD4:CD8 ratio along with the presence of mast cells, plasma cells, and foamy macrophages, none of which is seen here. Beryllium exposure is not associated with sarcoidosis.

**C - Alcohol consumption** - Chronic heavy alcohol use blunts cough and gag reflexes and predisposes to aspiration of food particles and other particulate substances, which can lead to granuloma formation in the lungs, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, bronchoalveolar lavages would show a decreased CD4:CD8 ratio and the presence of inclusion macrophages, neither of which is seen here. Chronic heavy alcohol use is not associated with sarcoidosis.

**D - Smoking** - Smoking is a risk factor for lung cancer, which, in advance cases, can lead to impaired breathing, bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy, calcified nodes, and possibly sarcoid reactions (noncaseating granulomas), similar to what is seen in this patient. However, lung cancer would not explain this patient's Lupus pernio or bronchoalveolar lavage findings. A bronchoalveolar lavage would detect a decrease in Helper T cells:Suppressor T cells ratio, with no change to the CD4:CD8 T lymphocyte ratio. Smoking does not predispose to sarcoidosis, which this patient has.

**E - Exposure to acid-fast bacilli** - Exposure to acid-fast bacilli predisposes to M. tuberculosis infections. Tuberculosis can manifest with shortness of breath, coughing, fever, granulomas, and bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, tuberculosis is also associated with caseating granuloma formation, which is inconsistent with this patient's biopsy findings. Acid-fast bacilli exposure is not associated with sarcoidosis.

