### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Enalapril** - ACE inhibitors, such as enalapril, cause vasodilation of the efferent arterioles and a subsequent decrease in GFR, which can lead to renal impairment. Lithium has a narrow therapeutic window, and any cause of renal impairment (e.g., chronic kidney disease, NSAID use) or volume depletion (e.g., due to diuretic therapy, cardiovascular disease) can precipitate lithium toxicity. Older patients > 65 years of age are particularly at risk for lithium toxicity, given their overall lower decreased glomerular filtration rate. To ensure safety, frequent monitoring of lithium levels is recommended in all patients taking lithium, particularly when starting a new medication.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Valproic acid** - Valproic acid overdose can cause altered mental status and myoclonic movements. However, it is unlikely to cause myoclonic seizures because it is an anticonvulsant. Additionally, valproic acid undergoes hepatic clearance and, while it inhibits other medications that are metabolized with the CYP450 system, it does not interfere with the renal excretion of lithium. Therefore, valproic acid is unlikely to precipitate lithium toxicity.

**B - Acetaminophen** - Advanced acetaminophen toxicity can lead to changes in mental status due to hepatic encephalopathy, which can cause myoclonic movements that may be confused for a myoclonic seizure. There is no evidence, however, that this patient consumed high doses of acetaminophen, and he does not have other features of advanced acetaminophen toxicity, such as jaundice or bleeding diathesis. Acetaminophen undergoes hepatic clearance, does not interfere with renal excretion and reabsorption of lithium, and is not known to precipitate lithium toxicity.

**C - Theophylline** - Theophylline intoxication can cause neurologic symptoms (e.g., seizures and tremors). However, it also manifests with cardiac symptoms (i.e., tachycardia, arrhythmia, and/or hypotension). Since theophylline increases the renal clearance and decreases serum concentrations of lithium, it is unlikely to precipitate lithium toxicity.

**D - Fluoxetine** - Concurrent use of fluoxetine and lithium increases the risk of developing serotonin syndrome, which can result in myoclonus, altered mental status, and, in severe cases, seizures. However, serotonin syndrome typically develops within hours of initiating or increasing the dose of a precipitating drug and would be unlikely in this patient, who presents 10 days after starting a new medication. Additionally, fluoxetine undergoes hepatic clearance and, while it inhibits other medications that are metabolized with the CYP450 system, it does not interfere with the renal excretion of lithium. Therefore, fluoxetine is unlikely to precipitate lithium toxicity.

**F - Metoprolol** - Metoprolol is used to treat lithium-induced tremors and can thus mask this manifestation of lithium toxicity. It is not known to precipitate lithium toxicity.

