### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Dimercaprol** - Arsenic toxicity results from its ability to bind strongly to sulfhydryl groups, thereby affecting the activity of different enzyme systems. Affected processes include glucose metabolism, glutathione metabolism, and cellular respiration (e.g., pyruvate dehydrogenase complex). Treatment for arsenic poisoning includes chelation therapy, cardiac monitoring (because of the risk of QTc prolongation), and fluid administration (to encourage urine output). Dimercaprol chelates several heavy metals, including arsenic, to form more stable, nontoxic, soluble compounds that are then excreted in the urine.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - N-acetylcysteine** - N-acetylcysteine is used to treat acetaminophen toxicity, which can also cause nonspecific symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting) in the first 24 hours after ingestion. However, this patient's history of recent pesticide ingestion does not suggest acetaminophen poisoning.

**B - Fomepizole** - Fomepizole is used to treat methanol or ethylene glycol poisoning, which can also cause nausea, abdominal pain, and QTc prolongation. However, ethylene glycol causes a sweet-smelling rather than garlic-like odor on the breath. Moreover, methanol and ethylene glycol poisoning also commonly manifest with altered mental status, headaches, and seizures.

**C - Deferoxamine** - Deferoxamine is used to treat acute iron toxicity, which also causes gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., abdominal pain, nausea, hematemesis, diarrhea) within 6 hours of ingestion. However, this patient has no history of excessive iron ingestion and iron toxicity would not explain this patient's garlic-like odor on the breath.

**D - Physostigmine** - Physostigmine is used to treat anticholinergic poisoning, which can also cause tachycardia and QTc prolongation. However, patients usually also have mydriasis, dry mouth, and warm and flushed skin; they do not develop garlic-like odor on the breath. Finally, this patient has no history of anticholinergic agent intake (e.g., atropine, deadly nightshade).

**E - EDTA** - EDTA is used to treat acute lead poisoning, which causes constipation rather than diarrhea. Additionally, patients usually have additional signs and symptoms, including headache, seizures, muscle weakness, and paresthesias. This patient has no history of ingesting lead-containing products.

**F - Pralidoxime** - In combination with atropine, pralidoxime is used to treat organophosphate poisoning, which can also cause a garlic-like (or petrol-like) odor on the breath. Organophosphates are also found in pesticides. However, patients usually have additional signs and symptoms of cholinergic crisis such as hypotension, increased salivation, uncontrolled urination, bronchospasm, muscle fasciculations, and bradycardia (in contrast to this patient's tachycardia), none of which are present in this patient.

