### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Lead-time bias** - Lead time is the time between the detection of a disease through screening and its clinical presentation. Lead-time bias results from deducing a longer survival from an earlier detection while disregarding the time since onset that precedes detection. In other words, survival may appear longer if measured from the time of diagnosis to the time of death even though it remains the same if measured from the onset of disease to the time of death. This bias classically occurs in studies of new, highly sensitive screening tests for diseases with poor prognosis. In a disease with a prognosis as poor as that of metastatic epithelial ovarian cancer, where early detection is unlikely to prolong survival, lead-time bias is a likely source of error.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Observer bias** - Observer bias is a type of bias that occurs when knowledge or expectations of the individuals collecting the data affects the investigation, e.g., if the researcher's knowledge of the patients' exposure statuses influenced the classification of patients as cases or noncases. There is nothing here to suggest that the diagnosis of metastatic cancer by the radiologists or other physicians was influenced by factors other than objective evidence of disease on screening or at presentation.

**C - Confounding bias** - Confounding bias is a type of bias in which an association is assumed to exist between an exposure and outcome when, in fact, a third variable (the confounder) that was not included in the study is associated with both the exposure and the outcome. There is no information contained in the question stem that suggests the apparent relationship between screening for metastatic cancer and survival is distorted by a third variable.

**D - Information bias** - Information bias can occur if information is gathered differently between the treatment and control group. Information bias may occur if the sample group of participants screened for metastatic epithelial ovarian cancer were a mix of patients screened with ultrasound and CT, or if the calculator used to count the number of patients screened with ultrasound or CT were broken. There is no evidence of such error in measurement based on the information provided in the question stem.

**E - Length-time bias** - Some diseases are slowly progressive and will therefore be detectable by screening for longer periods of time than rapidly progressive diseases that are more likely to manifest clinically before being diagnosed by screening. Length-time bias refers to the overestimation of such slowly progressive disease cases, leading to the incorrect assumption that a screening test results in better outcomes or prognosis. A classic example is a cancer screening test that is assumed to improve outcomes but actually detects a higher number of asymptomatic, slow-growing tumors that would have been less dangerous or lethal irrespective of detection.

**F - Surveillance bias** - Surveillance bias is a type of bias in which a disease is diagnosed more frequently in a sample population than in the general population due to the increased testing and monitoring within that sample. In this case, recurrent ovarian cancer was detected earlier in the group that underwent close surveillance with imaging. However, while this may have influenced the calculation of survival times, it did not skew the outcome of this study itself.

