### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Decreased bone mineral density** - In individuals with Cushing syndrome, high levels of cortisol cause inhibition of calcitriol synthesis, leading to decreased bone mineral density and osteoporosis in ∼ 50% of patients. Patients with Cushing syndrome are therefore at increased risk for pathological fractures and avascular necrosis of the femoral head. Other typical features of Cushing syndrome include insulin resistance (causing hyperglycemia), increased susceptibility to infections, lethargy, and depression.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Decreased serum sodium** - Hyponatremia can be caused by insufficient secretion of mineralocorticoids in patients with Addison disease. Individuals with Addison disease have symptoms of adrenal insufficiency, including weight loss, lethargy, intestinal complaints (nausea, vomiting, and/or diarrhea), hypotension, hyperpigmentation, and loss of axillary and pubic hair, none of which are present in this patient. Laboratory studies of this patient will most likely show hypernatremia, not hyponatremia, due to the mineralocorticoid effect of high levels of cortisol.

**B - Periorbital myxedema** - Periorbital and facial myxedema is a typical finding in patients with hypothyroidism. Although hypothyroidism can also present with weight gain, irregular menstrual cycles, fatigue, and hypertension, which are all seen here, other typical findings, including cold intolerance, constipation, cold, dry skin, and hair loss, are absent in this patient. Facial flushing and moon facies, along with acne and hirsutism, make another diagnosis more likely.

**C - Increased serum erythropoietin** - Increased serum EPO is a typical finding in patients with chronic hypoxia, e.g., due to obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Although OSA often presents with difficulty sleeping, fatigue, obesity, hypertension, irregular menstrual cycles, and flushing (plethora due to secondary polycythemia), it would not explain the easily bruisable skin, moon facies, hirsutism, and acne in this patient. Hemoglobin may be increased in individuals with Cushing syndrome, but EPO levels are typically within normal limits.

**E - Discoloration of the corneal margin** - Yellowish discoloration of the corneal margin indicates arcus senilis, which can be caused by lipid disorders. Although lipid disorders often present with obesity, as seen here, patients typically have other clinical features such as xanthelasmas and atherosclerosis, along with secondary diseases (e.g., coronary heart disease, myocardial infarction, stroke), which are absent in this patient. Moreover, lipid disorders would not explain the irregular menstrual cycles, hirsutism, easily bruisable skin, moon facies, and facial flushing in this patient.

**F - Enlarged ovaries with multiple follicles** - Enlarged ovaries with multiple follicles are a typical finding in patients with polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS). PCOS may also present with obesity, irregular menstrual cycles, hirsutism, acne, and hypertension, which are all seen here. However, patients present more commonly with acanthosis nigricans than easily bruisable skin. Furthermore, disease onset of PCOS is typically during adolescence, whereas this patient is already in her thirties. Lastly, this patient's facial flushing and moon facies make another diagnosis more likely.

