### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Increased specificity and decreased negative predictive value** - Lowering the cutoff to < 115 mEq/L would result in a higher specificity (i.e., an increased likelihood that people without hyponatremia will test negative), as the true negatives increase and the false positives (= low Na, clinical symptoms) decrease, resulting in fewer patients not requiring hypertonic saline being diagnosed as severely hyponatremic. However, the new test would also be more likely to miss patients who have hyponatremia requiring hypertonic saline (more false negatives). Since the negative predictive value is calculated as NPV = TN/(TN + FN), where TN represents true negatives and FN false negatives, the NPV would decrease with the new cutoff, as the number of false negatives would increase more than the number of true negatives. Therefore, there would be a decreased likelihood that a patient with a negative test result (i.e., sodium level > 115 mEq/L) truly does not have severe hyponatremia requiring hypertonic saline.

Lowering the cutoff to < 115 mEq/L would also result in decreased sensitivity (i.e., fewer patients with severe hyponatremia are correctly identified as requiring hypertonic saline). High specificity is usually achieved at the expense of sensitivity (epidemiology), and vice versa. Only a test with 100% specificity and 100% sensitivity would correctly identify all true positive and all true negative individuals. But be aware: In conditions in which a high laboratory value is diagnostic (e.g., CA 125 for ovarian cancer, lipase for pancreatitis, etc.), lowering the cutoff value will result in increased sensitivity and increased NPV. In hyponatremia, however, a low (!) laboratory value is diagnostic.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Decreased specificity and increased negative predictive value** - Raising the cutoff value would decrease the specificity of the test (e.g., to <125 mEq/L) by broadening the inclusion criteria for severe hyponatremia. Since more patients would be included in the group, the test would be less able to identify truly negative (eunatremic) persons, but would miss fewer cases of severe hyponatremia requiring hypertonic saline (true positives). An increased negative predictive value (NPV = TN/(TN + FN), where TN represents true negatives and FN false negatives)) would rather be seen if the cutoff had been raised, as the number of false negatives would decrease more than the number of true negatives. However, in this case the cutoff has been lowered to < 115 mEq/L.

**C - Decreased sensitivity and increased negative predictive value** - Lowering the cutoff to < 115 mEq/L would result in decreased sensitivity (epidemiology), i.e., true positive rate, because the true positives would decrease while the false negatives would increase. However, an increased negative predictive value (NPV = TN/(TN + FN), where TN represents true negatives and FN false negatives)) would rather be seen if the cutoff had been raised, as the number of false negatives would decrease more than the number of true negatives. In this case, the cutoff has been lowered to < 115 mEq/L.

**D - Increased sensitivity and decreased positive predictive value** - Lowering the cutoff to < 115 mEq/L would not result in increased sensitivity (epidemiology), i.e., true positive rate, because the true positives would decrease while the false negatives would increase. Likewise, the positive predictive value (PPV = TP/(TP + FP), where TP represents true positives and FP false positives) would not be decreased, as the true positives would increase, while the false positives would decrease.

**E - Decreased sensitivity and decreased positive predictive value** - Lowering the cutoff value to < 115 mEq/L would indeed decrease the sensitivity (epidemiology) of the test. However, it would not result in a decreased positive predictive value (PPV). The PPV is calculated as PPV = TP/(TP + FP), where TP represents true positives and FP false positives. Because the number of false positives would decrease more than the number of true positives, the PPV would be increased. There would therefore be an increased likelihood that a patient with a positive test result (i.e., sodium level > 115 mEq/L) truly does have severe hyponatremia requiring hypertonic saline.

**F - Increased specificity and decreased positive predictive value** - Lowering the cutoff to < 115 mEq/L would indeed result in the test having increased specificity (i.e., increased true negative rate). However, it would not result in a decreased positive predictive value (PPV). The PPV is calculated as PPV= TP/(TP + FP), where TP represents true positives and FP false positives. Because the number of false positives would decrease more than the number of true positives, the PPV would be increased. There would therefore be an increased likelihood that a patient with a positive test result (i.e., sodium level < 115 mEq/L) truly does have severe hyponatremia requiring hypertonic saline.

