### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - A** - In ROC curves, the y-axis represents the sensitivity (epidemiology), i.e., the true positive rate and the x-axis corresponds to 1 minus the specificity (i.e., the false positive rate). The prevalence of severe hyponatremia cases does not affect sensitivity and specificity, meaning that the percentage of correctly identified severely hyponatremic or eunatremic people does not change.

Image File: 97-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5efc77939fb57.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - B** - Point B represents an increase in the cutoff value for severe hyponatremia to > 115 mEq/L. A cutoff > 115 mEq/L would include more patients and increase the sensitivity (epidemiology), i.e., more true positives and fewer false negative, but it would also reduce the specificity (i.e., more false positives). However, the cutoff value was not changed here.

**C - C** - Point C represents a lowering of the cutoff value for severe hyponatremia to < 115 mEq/L. A cutoff substantially lower than 115 mEq/L would include fewer patients and increase the specificity (i.e., more true negatives and fewer false positives), but it would also reduce the sensitivity (epidemiology), i.e., fewer true positives. However, the cutoff value was not changed here.

**D - D** - By increasing the prevalence (i.e., more cases of severe hyponatremia in MICU patients), the general course of the ROC curve is not affected. An altogether different diagnostic test would have a different ROC curve (e.g., the one in the middle).

**E - E** - By increasing the prevalence (i.e., more cases of severe hyponatremia in MICU patients), the general course of the ROC curve is not affected. An altogether different diagnostic test would have a different ROC curve (e.g., one in the middle).

**F - F** - By increasing the prevalence (i.e., more cases of severe hyponatremia in MICU patients), the general course of the ROC curve is not affected. An altogether different diagnostic test would have a different ROC curve (e.g., the one in the middle).

**G - G** - A curve close to or on the diagonal line (i.e., the line of no discrimination) indicates a non-diagnostic or useless study. On this line, sensitivity (epidemiology) equals 1 minus specificity and the positive likelihood ratio equals 1, meaning that such a diagnostic test is no better than chance; the test theoretically yields positive or negative results entirely unrelated to the true disease status. An increase in the prevalence of severe hyponatremia would not render the test useless for correctly classifying patients with severe hyponatremia requiring hypertonic saline.

