### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - A 86-year-old man with well-controlled hypertension and mild benign prostate hyperplasia who lives in an assisted-living facility** - The control group and case group should have similar baseline characteristics and be recruited from the same study population. This study should recruit individuals > 65 years of age who reside in an assisted-living facility such as this 86-year-old man who has no history of Alzheimer dementia.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - An 80-year-old man with well-controlled hypertension and mild benign prostate hyperplasia who lives in an independent-living community** - This man comes from a different source population (a community center in an independent-living community, not an assisted-living facility), which poses a risk for selection bias. Thus, he is not an appropriate candidate for the control group.

**B - A 64-year-old man with well-controlled hypertension and mild benign prostate hyperplasia who lives in an assisted-living facility** - This man's age is outside the age of interest (> 65 years) for this study. Thus, he is not an appropriate candidate for the control group.

**C - A 73-year-old woman with coronary artery disease who was recently discharged to an assisted-living facility from the hospital after a middle cerebral artery stroke** - Selecting an individual with a recent history of hospitalization poses a risk for Berkson bias because this woman could have increased risk of benzodiazepine exposure, which distorts the odds ratio. Moreover, this woman has a comorbid condition (stroke) that might affect her cognitive status. Thus, she is not an appropriate candidate for the control group.

**E - A 68-year-old man with hypercholesterolemia, mild benign prostate hyperplasia, and poorly-controlled diabetes who is hospitalized for pneumonia** - Selecting an individual who is hospitalized poses a risk for Berkson bias because this man could have an increased risk of benzodiazepine exposure, which distorts the odds ratio. Thus, he is not an appropriate candidate for the control group.

