
### Correct Answer: B) Topical glucocorticoids 

**Educational Objective:** Treat pruritic urticarial papules and plaques of pregnancy (PUPPP).

#### **Key Point:** Low- to medium-potency topical glucocorticoids are first-line therapy for pruritic urticarial papules and plaques of pregnancy (PUPPP).

The patient has pruritic urticarial papules and plaques of pregnancy (PUPPP), and the most appropriate treatment is topical glucocorticoids. PUPPP is a self-limiting condition that typically occurs in primiparous women at the end of the third trimester or immediately postpartum. Lesions are characterized as extremely pruritic, erythematous papules within striae, most often on the abdomen with sparing of the umbilicus. The lesions can be confined to the abdomen or spread to the extremities and torso. If the lesions coalesce, urticarial plaques within striae can be an additional finding. The symptoms typically last 4 to 6 weeks and usually abate by the second postpartum week.
Topical glucocorticoids can help relieve some of the symptoms. Glucocorticoids are pregnancy category C, but are generally thought to be safe, especially topical formulations.
Early delivery is rarely required to manage PUPPP. Most patients can be managed successfully with topical glucocorticoids and oral antihistamines. On rare occasions a burst of oral glucocorticoids with a quick taper can be used if the symptoms are particularly severe, and this approach is likely preferable to early delivery.
Topical imiquimod is an immunomodulator typically used for actinic keratoses, superficial basal cell carcinoma, and genital warts. It is not appropriate treatment for PUPPP.
Ursodeoxycholic acid is used in intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP). Symptoms include pruritus in most patients and jaundice in 10% to 25% of patients. Elevated serum bile acids are diagnostic of ICP. Ursodeoxycholic acid is effective for ICP. Fetal complications such as preterm labor, fetal distress, and intrauterine death are increased in ICP. Intrauterine deaths can occur late in gestation, and women with proven ICP typically are induced at 36 to 38 weeks of gestation. The patient's pruritic urticarial papules located on the abdomen are not compatible with the diagnosis of intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy, and ursodeoxycholic acid is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Kroumpouzos G, Cohen LM. Dermatoses of pregnancy. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2001;45:1-19; quiz 19-22. PMID: 11423829

This content was last updated in August 2018.