
### Correct Answer: C) Miliaria 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose miliaria.

#### **Key Point:** Miliaria or “heat rash” can appear as superficial clear vesicles or as multiple discrete red papules due to the occlusion of eccrine sweat ducts.

The patient has miliaria. Miliaria or “heat rash” can appear as superficial clear vesicles or as multiple discrete red papules due to occlusion of eccrine sweat ducts. When the gland is clogged superficially, there are minute pustules that rupture easily and can be wiped off (miliaria crystallina). Miliaria rubra causes deeper red papules and some pustules when the clog is deeper and more inflammation is present. Miliaria is often seen in the setting of fever and occlusion. A typical clinical situation is a patient who is immobilized, either from pain or following surgery, and the sweat glands are occluded as a result. Therapy is guided toward cooling the affected area, allowing air circulation.
Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) is not an uncommon febrile drug reaction. It tends to occur 1 to 2 days after the offending agent is given. β-Lactam antibiotics are the most common cause of AGEP. It presents as punctate nonfollicular sterile pustules on a background of erythema. It starts on the face and intertriginous areas and spreads to the trunk and extremities. The pustular nature of this condition and its typical location argue against the diagnosis of AGEP.
Candidiasis occurs most often in intertriginous areas. An occluded, warm, moist area is an ideal setting for Candida albicans. The skin findings tend to be bright red plaques with surrounding red satellite papules and pustules. The location and appearance of this patient's rash are not consistent with a Candida albicans infection.
Postsurgical contact dermatitis to povidone iodine is not uncommon. It tends to occur at the surgical site about 1 to 2 days after surgery. It appears as pruritic, weeping vesicles with underlying erythema often in a well-delineated shape where the povidone was applied. Its appearance is quite unlike miliaria, and it is unlikely that the patient had povidone applied to his back, making this an untenable diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Haas N, Martens F, Henz BM. Miliaria crystallina in an intensive care setting. Clin Exp Dermatol. 2004;29:32-4. PMID: 14723716

This content was last updated in August 2018.