
### Correct Answer: D) Discontinue current treatment and start oral isotretinoin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat severe nodulocystic acne.

#### **Key Point:** Isotretinoin is indicated for severe nodulocystic and recalcitrant acne; it is associated with severe birth defects and must be administered through the federal regulatory program iPLEDGE.

This patient has severe nodulocystic acne with evidence of scarring. The most appropriate treatment is oral isotretinoin. Isotretinoin is approved for treatment of severe cystic acne or acne not responsive to traditional combination therapy (topical antibiotics, oral antibiotics, and topical retinoids). This additional finding of scarring in this patient would also warrant treatment with isotretinoin. Isotretinoin is teratogenic and should be administered by a provider registered under the federal regulatory program iPLEDGE and who is familiar with the potential side effects of isotretinoin therapy.
Benzoyl peroxide is comedolytic and also has antibacterial properties. Benzoyl peroxide is available over the counter in a variety of formulations (lotion, gel, cream). Topical benzoyl peroxide is often used in combination therapy with topical antibiotics and topical retinoids to treat acne. Given the severity and duration of this patient's acne, topical benzoyl peroxide would not be the most effective treatment.
Topical dapsone is an approved treatment for mild to moderate acne but would likely provide minimal benefit to this patient with severe acne who is already on topical antibiotic therapy.
Changing doxycycline to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is inappropriate treatment for this patient. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole can be used for treatment of acne, but it is less effective than doxycycline or minocycline, and the potential risk of severe cutaneous drug reactions limits its long-term use. Guidelines recommend that the duration of oral antibiotic therapy be limited, specifically that oral antibiotics be used for 3 months and then discontinued for patients with good clinical improvement. The same antibiotic can be used again for patients with good clinical improvement who have a subsequent relapse. This patient has severe nodulocystic acne with scarring, so isotretinoin is the most appropriate treatment.
Oral prednisone should not be used for this patient. Systemic glucocorticoids are not an effective long-term treatment for acne. Steroid-induced acne is often a side effect of their use. Patients occasionally experience acute flares with the initiation of isotretinoin treatment, and a short course of oral prednisone can be added.

**Bibliography**

Zaenglein AL, Pathy AL, Schlosser BJ, Alikhan A, et al. Guidelines of care for the management of acne vulgaris. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2016 May;74(5):945-73. PMID: 26897386

This content was last updated in August 2018.