
### Correct Answer: C) Affected body surface area 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate the prognosis in toxic epidermal necrosis (TEN).

#### **Key Point:** Body surface area involvement is the strongest prognostic indicator in Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrosis (SJS/TEN).

Body surface area is the strongest prognostic indicator in Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrosis (SJS/TEN). Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and TEN are related clinical syndromes that are characterized by acute epidermal necrosis. The classification of SJS and TEN is determined by the percentage of body surface area with epidermal detachment: SJS involves less than 10%, SJS-TEN overlap involves 10% to 30%, and TEN involves greater than 30%. TEN is almost exclusively caused by medications, whereas SJS can also be triggered uncommonly by vaccines or infection. Patients may have flu-like symptoms for 1 to 3 days prior to the skin eruption. Initially, painful red-purple macules or patches develop on the trunk and extremities, which enlarge and coalesce. Two or more mucosal surfaces, such as the eyes, nasopharynx, mouth, and genitals, are involved in more than 80% of patients. Systemic inflammation can result in pneumonia, hepatitis, nephritis, arthralgia, and myocarditis. Loss of the skin barrier function can lead to infection, hypovolemia, electrolyte disturbances, and death. Prognosis for SJS/TEN can be estimated by application of the SCORTEN assessment tool at 24 hours after presentation. All of the listed answer choices are features of the SCORTEN, but the patient's body surface area has the greatest impact on the score.
SCORTEN is a severity-of-illness score validated for TEN. It incorporates blood Sugar (plasma glucose level >252 mg/dL [14.0 mmol/L]), presence of Cancer, Older age (>40 years), heart Rate (>120/min), Ten percent or more body surface area involvement on day 1, Electrolytes (serum bicarbonate <20 mEq/L [20 mmol/L]), and blood urea Nitrogen (>28 mg/dL [10 mmol/L]). Mortality is directly correlated with the number of SCORTEN variables that are fulfilled.

**Bibliography**

Bastuji-Garin S, Fouchard N, Bertocchi M, Roujeau JC, Revuz J, Wolkenstein P. SCORTEN: a severity-of-illness score for toxic epidermal necrolysis. J Invest Dermatol. 2000;115:149-53. PMID: 10951229

This content was last updated in August 2018.