
### Correct Answer: C) Molluscum contagiosum infection 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose molluscum contagiosum infection.

#### **Key Point:** Molluscum contagiosum is a common cutaneous viral infection that initially appears as firm, umbilicated flesh-colored to yellow papules; in adults it is considered a sexually transmitted infection that frequently involves the genital area.

Molluscum contagiosum is a common cutaneous viral infection caused by the poxvirus molluscum contagiosum. It occurs in three settings: children, adults as a sexually transmitted disease, and AIDS patients. The lesions are flesh-colored to yellow smooth papules with a shiny surface and an umbilicated center. They can be located anywhere on the skin, but in adults they typically involve the genital area; in AIDS patients, they often involve the face. Diagnosis can be made by the clinical appearance. In immunocompromised patients, cryptococcosis, histoplasmosis, or Penicillium marneffei infections may resemble molluscum lesions and should be differentiated by skin biopsy. Although lesions can self-resolve, this may take months to years. Therapy includes destructive techniques including cryotherapy, salicylic acid, cantharidin, or physical removal with curettage.
Anogenital warts (condylomata acuminata) are the most common sexually transmitted infection and are most often caused by human papillomavirus types 6 and 11. They present as single or multiple papules on the penis, vulva, or perianal area and may be variably sized flat-topped or cauliflower-like papules. They do not have a shiny surface nor are they umbilicated. Lesions are diagnosed based on clinical appearance. Although warts may resolve spontaneously, treatment often is required. Treatment of anogenital warts may include chemical or physical destruction, immunologic therapy, or excision.
Herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection presents as localized, grouped pink macules and papules that progress to vesicles on an erythematous base and then evolve into pustules with subsequent ulcers and erosions. HSV1 traditionally causes orofacial lesions, and HSV2 most often causes genital lesions; however, both viruses can lead to either oral or genital lesions. Diagnosis of HSV can be made clinically, but several rapid tests are widely available, such as direct-fluorescent antibody and polymerase chain reaction. Oral antiviral agents including acyclovir, valacyclovir, and famciclovir are considered first-line therapies.
Seborrheic keratosis is a benign neoplasm of the skin that has a “stuck-on” appearance. They have a wide range of shades from tan to black, have different morphologies, and vary in size from a few millimeters to several centimeters. It is more common with advancing age and can be seen anywhere on the body, but they characteristically spare the palms and soles. This young patient's shiny papules are not compatible with the diagnosis of seborrheic keratoses.

**Bibliography**

Ramdass P, Mullick S, Farber HF. Viral Skin Diseases. Prim Care. 2015;42:517-67. PMID: 26612372 doi:10.1016/j.pop.2015.08.006

This content was last updated in August 2018.