
### Correct Answer: A) Bullous pemphigoid 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose bullous pemphigoid.

#### **Key Point:** Bullous pemphigoid is a chronic autoimmune blistering disease that predominantly affects elderly patients; it presents with urticarial plaques with tense bullae on the trunk and upper legs.

This patient most likely has bullous pemphigoid, a chronic autoimmune blistering disease (ABD). ABDs should be suspected in any patient with persistent or recurrent blisters involving the skin, eyes, or oral and genital mucosa. The clinical presentation can vary depending on the underlying disorder, ranging from large urticarial plaques to flaccid blisters that may almost instantly rupture and appear as erosions to intact tense bullae. ABDs can be subdivided into intraepidermal and subepidermal disorders. Intraepidermal ABDs clinically present with flaccid vesicles that are seldom clinically visualized. They rupture easily leaving painful erosions, whereas subepidermal ABDs show intact, tense bullae. The intact, tense blisters seen in this patient suggest a subepidermal ABD, such as bullous pemphigoid, as the clinical diagnosis.
Bullous pemphigoid presents with urticarial and eczematous lesions on the trunk and upper legs that progress to tense bullae on an erythematous base. Onset is usually in elderly adults. Oral involvement is present in approximately 20% of patients. A thorough examination of the eyes, oral mucosa, and genital/perianal mucosa should be performed because mucosal and ocular involvement can lead to scarring, resulting in blindness and vaginal or oral contractures. There are varying degrees of pruritus with bullous pemphigoid.
Dermatitis herpetiformis is a subepidermal ABD that is extremely pruritic. There are small tense vesicles and papules, which are rarely intact due to the extreme pruritus and resultant scratching; therefore the usual presentation is excoriations on the elbows, knees, and buttocks.
Pemphigus foliaceus and pemphigus vulgaris are intraepidermal ABD. Pemphigus foliaceus is most common in middle-aged adults. There are crusted erosions (“corn flakes”) on the scalp, head/neck, and trunk without mucous membrane involvement. It can be associated with other autoimmune diseases. Drug-induced pemphigus often has this pattern.
Pemphigus vulgaris is the most common intraepidermal ABD, and its incidence increases with age. It presents with oral and/or vaginal erosions and flaccid vesicles. Pemphigus vulgaris is associated with a positive Nikolsky sign whereby light friction on perilesional skin induces a blister.

**Bibliography**

Schmidt E, della Torre R, Borradori L. Clinical features and practical diagnosis of bullous pemphigoid. Immunol Allergy Clin North Am. 2012;32:217-32, v. PMID: 22560135 doi:10.1016/j.iac.2012.04.002

This content was last updated in August 2018.