
### Correct Answer: C) Topical mupirocin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat impetigo.

#### **Key Point:** A topical antibacterial agent, such as mupirocin, is the first-line therapy for localized impetigo.

This patient has nonbullous impetigo, and the most appropriate treatment is topical mupirocin. Impetigo is most commonly caused by Staphylococcus aureus or beta-hemolytic streptococci. It is very contagious and most commonly seen in children. Impetigo can be either nonbullous or bullous impetigo. Bullous impetigo is a toxin-mediated process usually caused by production of an exfoliative toxin by S. aureus, which induces erythema and loss of the superficial layer of the epidermis. Nonbullous impetigo is the more common type and often affects the face or extremities. It appears as erythematous papules or pustules that rupture and then progress to erosions with overlying honey-colored crust. The diagnosis of impetigo often can be made based on clinical presentation; however, culture of the honey-colored crust can confirm the pathologic organism and obtain sensitivity testing, which is important when treating extensive disease or staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome. This patient has only a few lesions, so the best treatment would be topical mupirocin. Mupirocin is a topical antibiotic that inhibits bacterial protein synthesis. It has good activity against both S. aureus and beta-hemolytic streptococci. There has been limited reported antibiotic resistance to mupirocin, and it is usually well tolerated. Washes with chlorhexidine and diluted bleach baths also can be used.
Oral doxycycline would be a treatment for patients with suspected or confirmed methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) skin and soft tissue infection. Oral antibiotic therapy increases antibiotic resistance and has more potential side effects compared with topical therapy, so oral doxycycline would not be the most appropriate choice. Oral antibiotics should be reserved for patients with more extensive infection, involvement of deeper skin structures, or systemic symptoms such as fever. Cephalexin, dicloxacillin, erythromycin, amoxicillin-clavulanate, and clindamycin are the preferred initial systemic treatments for extensive impetigo.
Topical hydrocortisone is not appropriate to treat impetigo caused by S. aureus or beta-hemolytic streptococci. It may be used for eczematous dermatitis, but not for impetigo.
Topical neomycin/polymyxin B/bacitracin does have some activity again S. aureus and streptococci, but it is not as effective as mupirocin. Also, there is a higher risk of allergic contact dermatitis with topical antibiotics containing neomycin and bacitracin, so this would not be the most appropriate treatment in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Hartman-Adams H, Banvard C, Juckett G. Impetigo: diagnosis and treatment. Am Fam Physician. 2014 Aug 15;90(4):229-35. PMID: 25250996

This content was last updated in August 2018.