
### Correct Answer: D) Rheumatoid vasculitis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose rheumatoid vasculitis.

#### **Key Point:** Rheumatoid vasculitis typically occurs in elderly male smokers with long-standing rheumatoid arthritis and high titers of rheumatoid factor; it can appear as a small or medium-sized vasculitis and may affect nerves and other organs.

Elderly smokers with long-standing rheumatoid arthritis and high rheumatoid factor titers are at risk for rheumatoid vasculitis. Rheumatoid vasculitis commonly affects small to medium-sized vessels of the skin, digits, peripheral nerves, eyes, and heart. Small-vessel vasculitis (leukocytoclastic vasculitis) appears as palpable purpura. In medium-vessel disease, nodules, ulcerations, livedo reticularis, and digital infarcts can occur. Periungual purpura (Bywaters lesions) is the result of nailfold thrombosis and appears as purpuric papules on the digital pulp of a few digits and in the nail fold area.
Actinic purpura is caused by age- and sun damage-related capillary fragility and bleeding under atrophic skin. It is recognized as a flat, noninflamed ecchymosis typically in sun damaged skin on the forearms and dorsal hands.
Illicit drug use can result in leukocytoclastic vasculitis, most notably from cocaine adulterated with levamisole. These patients generally have palpable purpura, often with involvement of the ears. Laboratory studies typically show an elevated ANCA titer, with a mixed perinuclear and cytoplasmic pattern. These findings are absent in this patient.
Infective endocarditis can result in localized immune-mediated vasculitis secondary to vascular occlusion by infected microthrombi. Infective endocarditis is an unlikely diagnosis in this patient in the absence of heart murmur, fever (present in 90% of patients), or constitutional symptoms such as anorexia and weight loss.

**Bibliography**

Sharma A, Dhooria A, Aggarwal A, Rathi M, Chandran V. Connective tissue disorder-associated vasculitis. Curr Rheumatol Rep. 2016 Jun;18(6):31. PMID: 27097818

This content was last updated in August 2018.