
### Correct Answer: D) Discontinue adalimumab 

**Educational Objective:** Treat drug-induced subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus.

#### **Key Point:** Subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus is frequently diagnosed as a drug-induced photosensitive rash characterized by erythematous annular scaly patches.

This patient has subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus (SCLE), and she should discontinue adalimumab. Approximately one third of SCLE cases are drug induced. Tumor necrosis factor inhibitors such as adalimumab are a leading cause of drug-induced SCLE. Unlike psoriasis, SCLE is photodistributed, tends to burn more than itch, and has a lighter pink-to-violet tone when compared with the red tones of psoriasis. Psoriasis improves with sun exposure, whereas SCLE worsens with sun exposure. This patient's rash at presentation is different from the distribution and appearance of her psoriasis, and it is worsened in the sun rather than improved. These features argue against psoriasis treatment failure and point toward drug-induced SCLE. Medications should be evaluated as a cause of all cases of SCLE, particularly those affecting young white men who have a very low risk of developing lupus spectrum disease. Other common causative medications are hydrochlorothiazide, ACE inhibitors, NSAIDs, proton pump inhibitors, and terbinafine. Drug withdrawal typically leads to improvement in drug-induced SCLE.
Hydroxychloroquine is a first-line therapy for native cutaneous lupus, but cessation of adalimumab is a better choice for drug-induced SCLE.
Methotrexate is an excellent agent to add to tumor necrosis factor inhibitors to prevent or manage the development of human antichimeric antibodies, which may lead to treatment failure or resistance in psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis. Such treatment failure may manifest as a sudden loss of efficacy of therapy with recurrence of skin or joint symptoms. This patient has no evidence of treatment failure, and the best management of the new rash is discontinuation of adalimumab.
A short prednisone taper might give the patient brief respite from her symptoms, but they would return shortly if adalimumab is not discontinued. Short prednisone tapers should be avoided in patients with psoriasis as significant rebound skin disease can occur, resulting in erythroderma in some patients.

**Bibliography**

Grönhagen CM, Fored CM, Linder M, Granath F, Nyberg F. Subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus and its association with drugs: a population-based matched case-control study of 234 patients in Sweden. Br J Dermatol. 2012;167:296-305. PMID: 22458771 doi:10.1111/j.1365-2133.2012.10969.x

This content was last updated in August 2018.