
### Correct Answer: E) Treat the interdigital intertrigo 

**Educational Objective:** Manage recurrent cellulitis.

#### **Key Point:** Evaluation of the interdigital toe spaces and treatment of the maceration and fissuring in the web spaces and modification of other predisposing factors such as edema, obesity, eczema, and venous insufficiency can decrease the risk of recurrent cellulitis.

The most appropriate management of this patient is to treat the interdigital intertrigo. The diagnosis of cellulitis often is made based on the clinical presentation of a well-demarcated warm and tender erythematous plaque. Bacteria enter through superficial breaks in the skin or gain access by hematogenous spread. Treatment of the maceration and fissuring in the toe web spaces can decrease the risk of recurrent cellulitis. This fissuring, maceration, and scaling are often due to tinea pedis, which allows entry for Streptococcus and Staphylococcus aureus to infect the lower extremity. In addition, attempts should be made to identify and treat other predisposing conditions for cellulitis, such as edema, obesity, eczema, and venous insufficiency.
Because this is only the second episode of cellulitis for this patient, prophylactic antibiotics are inappropriate. There has been no attempt to address predisposing factors. Prophylactic antibiotics can be considered when a patient has three to four episodes of cellulitis per year. Treatment is usually with oral penicillin or erythromycin. Attempts to treat predisposing factors such as edema, obesity, venous insufficiency, and toe web abnormalities should be addressed first.
Blood culture is not recommended for cellulitis unless a patient has a malignancy and is on chemotherapy, or has neutropenia, severe immunodeficiency, an immersion injury, or an animal bite. This patient has none of these indications.
The patient has a classic presentation of cellulitis, and obtaining a skin biopsy is not necessary.
Staphylococcal decolonization with intranasal mupirocin can be considered for recurrent skin abscesses, but it is not effective for recurrent cellulitis.

**Bibliography**

Stevens DL, Bisno AL, Chambers HF, Dellinger EP, et al. Practice guidelines for the diagnosis and management of skin and soft tissue infections: 2014 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2014 Jul 15;59(2):e10-52. PMID: 24973422

This content was last updated in August 2018.