
### Correct Answer: B) Biopsy 

**Educational Objective:** Manage recalcitrant actinic keratosis.

#### **Key Point:** Actinic keratoses that do not resolve with cryotherapy or other appropriate therapy will require a biopsy to rule out an invasive neoplasm.

The most appropriate management for this lesion is biopsy. Actinic keratoses are red scaly papules and plaques that occur in sun-exposed areas, most often in those over age 50. They have a “gritty” texture, and early lesions are often easier to palpate than to see. Diagnosis is usually made clinically rather than with biopsy. Individual lesions are often treated with cryotherapy. In patients with a large number of actinic keratoses, areas with multiple lesions are best treated with topical preparations (such as 5-fluorouracil or imiquimod); photodynamic therapy may also be performed.
If traditional therapies do not eradicate the lesions, there is a possibility that the clinical diagnosis is incorrect. In this case, the lesion is now indurated, which is not compatible with the diagnosis of actinic keratosis. Possible alternative diagnoses include basal cell and squamous cell carcinomas. Histologic diagnosis would give definitive diagnosis and guide treatment options.
Repeated cryotherapy may treat the superficial portion of the lesion, while the deeper portion of the tumor may continue to grow. Cryosurgery can be used to treat basal cell carcinomas; however, the targeted depth and the temperature of the lesion need to be carefully monitored. However, a definitive diagnosis is required before this therapy can be considered.
Topical imiquimod is an interferon inducer, and it can treat actinic keratosis by producing an immunologic reaction against the lesion. It is also used to treat some basal cell carcinomas; it is an effective treatment and approved only for the superficial pathologic subtype of basal cell carcinoma. However, a biopsy of the lesion is the first step in the proper management of this patient.
Standard treatment for most basal cell carcinomas is wide local excision; however, some histologic types and body locations require more aggressive management. Biopsy prior to excision is important because the histopathologic diagnosis should be used to guide treatment.

**Bibliography**

Siegel JA, Korgavkar K, Weinstock MA. Current perspective on actinic keratosis: a review. Br J Dermatol. 2016. PMID: 27500794 doi:10.1111/bjd.14852

This content was last updated in August 2018.