
### Correct Answer: B) Lupus pernio (cutaneous sarcoidosis) 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose lupus pernio.

#### **Key Point:** Lupus pernio is sarcoidosis of the nose and central face, manifesting as violaceous subcutaneous plaques or nodules, often with some overlying scale.

This patient has lupus pernio, a variant of sarcoidosis that involves granulomatous inflammation of the skin around the nares. Histopathology of sarcoidosis shows granulomatous inflammation of the affected tissue with noncaseating granulomas and minimal lymphocytic infiltration.
The term “lupus pernio” is a source of potential confusion. “Lupus” generally refers to systemic lupus erythematosus; “pernio” generally refers to a condition of purple papules on the distal digits exacerbated by cold and moisture; and lupus vulgaris is a form of tuberculosis of the skin. Lupus pernio has little to do with these, however. The typical appearance of lupus pernio includes violaceous subcutaneous plaques or nodules of the central face, often with some overlying scaling, most commonly seen in black persons. Patients with lupus pernio tend to have a chronic, refractory course, and extracutaneous disease. A careful evaluation for the presence of extracutaneous disease is necessary in any patient with cutaneous sarcoid, and treatment depends on other organ involvement and the severity of the clinical disease.
Lepromatous leprosy may consist of erythematous macules, papules, and nodules or occasionally simply diffuse infiltration and palpable thickening of the skin. The condition is often generalized in distribution at diagnosis. There is frequent involvement of the nasal mucosa resulting in nasal stuffiness and eventually a saddle-nose deformity. The patient's localized skin findings are most consistent with lupus pernio.
The classic findings of lupus vulgaris, a chronic, progressive form of cutaneous tuberculosis, include multiple discrete, red-brown papules that subsequently coalesce to form a slowly growing asymptomatic plaque most typically found on the head and neck. Histopathology will show granulomas with a variable degree of central caseating necrosis; this finding is absent in this patient, making lupus vulgaris an unlikely diagnosis.
The most specific skin manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus are variations on interface dermatitis, with pink-to-violet macules or plaques and varying scale or atrophy. One example is acute cutaneous lupus erythematosus (ACLE), also known as malar or butterfly rash. ACLE consists of erythema and edema over the cheeks and bridge of the nose and sometimes the forehead and chin. Granuloma formation is not a feature of lupus-specific skin disease.

**Bibliography**

Wanat KA, Rosenbach M. Cutaneous Sarcoidosis. Clin Chest Med. 2015;36:685-702. PMID: 26593142 doi:10.1016/j.ccm.2015.08.010

This content was last updated in August 2018.