
### Correct Answer: C) Mohs micrographic surgery 

**Educational Objective:** Treat high-risk basal cell carcinoma.

#### **Key Point:** Mohs surgery, a form of margin-controlled surgery that minimizes loss of normal tissue, is particularly useful for basal cell tumors in areas such as the head and neck, for large or recurrent tumors, for histologically high-risk tumors, or when cosmetic outcome is crucial.

The most appropriate treatment for this lesion is Mohs micrographic surgery. Mohs micrographic surgery is a specialized surgical procedure that provides margin control while sparing as much normal skin as possible. Indications for Mohs micrographic surgery include tumors with aggressive histologic subtypes (micronodular, morpheaform, infiltrative, perineural involvement), high-risk and cosmetically sensitive locations (face, genitals), large tumors or tumors arising in scar tissue, and in patients who are immunosuppressed. Because this patient has a high-risk tumor that is located in a cosmetically sensitive location, Mohs surgery is the most appropriate treatment.
Small noninfiltrating basal cell carcinomas can be treated with cryotherapy; however, other surgical methods are more commonly used. To treat basal cell carcinomas appropriately with cryotherapy, the target temperature is –50 °C using liquid nitrogen as the cryogen and this requires local anesthesia. Hypopigmentation is often seen after cryotherapy. The histologic subtype and location of the basal cell carcinoma make cryotherapy inappropriate for this patient.
Electrodesiccation and curettage is a widely used treatment for noninfiltrating basal cell carcinomas on low-risk anatomic sites (trunk and extremities). High-risk infiltrative and micronodular basal cell carcinomas are not appropriate for electrodesiccation and curettage. Additionally, because it may result in a cosmetically unappealing scar on the nose, it should not be used for this patient.
Topical therapies including 5-fluorouracil and imiquimod are most effective for superficial basal cell carcinomas. Superficial basal cell carcinomas are well-demarcated, irregularly bordered red patches; they tend to enlarge radially rather than invading into deeper structures. Topical therapies are not effective for more aggressive histologic subtypes of basal cell carcinomas.
Vismodegib is an oral medication that inhibits the hedgehog signaling pathway. It is reserved for locally advanced or metastatic basal cell carcinomas. There are significant side effects including dysgeusia, alopecia, and muscle cramps.

**Bibliography**

Connolly SM, Baker DR, Coldiron BM, Fazio MJ, Storrs PA, Vidimos AT, et al; American Academy of Dermatology. AAD/ACMS/ASDSA/ASMS 2012 appropriate use criteria for Mohs micrographic surgery: a report of the American Academy of Dermatology, American College of Mohs Surgery, American Society for Dermatologic Surgery Association, and the American Society for Mohs Surgery. Dermatol Surg. 2012;38:1582-603. PMID: 22958088 doi:10.1111/j.1524-4725.2012.02574.x

This content was last updated in August 2018.