
### Correct Answer: B) Erythema multiforme major 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose erythema multiforme major.

#### **Key Point:** Erythema multiforme major is recognized by targetoid lesions accompanied by mucous membrane involvement; a drug or infection (herpes simplex virus or Mycoplasma pneumoniae) can trigger erythema multiforme.

Erythema multiforme (EM) features the development of characteristic tricolored targetoid plaques, as this patient demonstrates on the extremities and face. In EM major, these targetoid plaques are accompanied by mucous membrane involvement. The most common cause of EM is infection, and herpes simplex virus 1 and 2 are the most commonly recognized, followed by Mycoplasma pneumoniae. The treatment of EM major is supportive, and most cases resolve in a week. Suppressive therapy may be necessary for patients who have relapses of EM with herpes outbreaks.
Patients with disseminated gonococcal infection and bacteremia present with vesiculopustular or hemorrhagic macular skin lesions, fever, chills, and polyarthralgia. Knees, elbows, and distal joints are typical sites of involvement. Tenosynovitis of the dorsa of the hands and/or feet is a characteristic feature. Gonococcemia does not cause targetoid plaques or mucositis.
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) are typically medication reactions. Mucous membrane involvement and targetoid lesions occur as well. Unlike EM, however, the targetoid lesions in SJS and TEN lack the true tricolor appearance and are thus labeled atypical targetoid plaques. Like EM, SJS can sometimes be triggered by infection, but unlike EM, SJS is characterized by necrosis and sloughing of the skin. SJS and TEN have systemic manifestations such as acute kidney injury and elevated liver chemistry tests, whereas EM does not.

**Bibliography**

Stoopler ET, Houston AM, Chmieliauskaite M, Sollecito TP. Erythema Multiforme. J Emerg Med. 2015;49:e197-8. PMID: 26281815 doi:10.1016/j.jemermed.2015.06.018

This content was last updated in August 2018.