
### Correct Answer: E) No intervention needed 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose actinic purpura.

#### **Key Point:** Actinic purpura is caused by age-related capillary fragility and bleeding under atrophic skin; minor trauma can cause impressive purpuric macules and patches, most commonly on the forearm.

Actinic purpura is a common incidental finding in elderly persons, and no intervention is needed at this time; however, reassurance should be provided to the patient and caregiver. A myriad of changes occur in the skin over time; these can be due to chronologic aging alone or influenced by the cumulative effects of ultraviolet light exposure. Actinic purpura is caused by age-related capillary fragility and bleeding under atrophic skin. Minor trauma can cause impressive purpuric macules and patches, most commonly on the forearm. It is not a sign of vasculitis, a bleeding disorder, or nutritional deficiency, and it does not require additional evaluation with coagulation studies or therapy. Often associated with actinic purpura are stellate pseudoscars, jagged or linear atrophic scars that primarily occur on the forearms of patients with chronic actinic damage. Patients may or may not recall antecedent trauma. There is no treatment for actinic purpura. Good skin care measures such as emollient moisturizers can help reduce dryness and protect the skin from minor trauma such as scratching.
It is unnecessary to biopsy this lesion. There is no indication that it is a new growth or that this is an undiagnosed inflammatory skin condition or vasculitis.
Although it is good to be alert for abusive situations, in this case the findings are typical for actinic purpura.
Triamcinolone is a medium-potency glucocorticoid. Although initial application of the ointment will not harm the patient, chronic application of a medium-potency glucocorticoid on normal skin will result in thinning of the already thin skin, the development of striae and purpura, pigmentary changes, acneiform eruptions, and an increased risk for infection, resulting in more damage.

**Bibliography**

Blume-Peytavi U, Kottner J, Sterry W, Hodin MW, Griffiths TW, Watson RE, et al. Age-associated skin conditions and diseases: current perspectives and future options. Gerontologist. 2016;56 Suppl 2:S230-42. PMID: 26994263 doi:10.1093/geront/gnw003

This content was last updated in August 2018.