
### Correct Answer: E) Stasis dermatitis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose stasis dermatitis.

#### **Key Point:** Stasis dermatitis is typically characterized by edema, erythema, scaling, and pruritus on the lower legs and occurs in patients with venous insufficiency or other causes of chronic lower extremity edema.

This patient has stasis dermatitis with the characteristic findings of bilateral edema, erythema, scaling, and pruritus of the bilateral lower legs. Crusting and erosions may also be seen. This is due to chronic venous insufficiency or other causes of chronic lower extremity edema. When secondary to chronic venous insufficiency, varicosities, telangiectasias, ulcers, and brown discoloration may also be noted. Symptomatic treatment with topical glucocorticoids and emollients should be used; however, the edema must be addressed with compression stockings and leg elevation for significant improvement to occur.
Allergic contact dermatitis is common in patients with stasis dermatitis. It commonly occurs due to the application of topical medications such as over-the-counter triple antibiotic ointment. This patient denies applying any topical medication or emollient to her legs, so her diagnosis would not be allergic contact dermatitis. In patients exposed to potential allergens, a clue to the diagnosis of contact dermatitis is the failure of the patient to respond to appropriate therapy for stasis dermatitis. In these patients, patch testing is often necessary to determine if a secondary allergic contact dermatitis is present.
Stasis dermatitis is often misdiagnosed as cellulitis. It would be unusual for cellulitis to present bilaterally. Unlike stasis dermatitis, cellulitis is typically tender and not pruritic. Cellulitis is usually hot to the touch and involves less scaling than stasis dermatitis.
Leukocytoclastic vasculitis is inflammation of the small vessels of the skin; it typically presents with nonblanching, violaceous papules (palpable purpura), and macules on the lower extremities. Leukocytoclastic vasculitis can be idiopathic, but it is usually associated with an infection or is often drug induced. Other causes of leukocytoclastic vasculitis include connective tissue disease, inflammatory bowel disease, and malignancies.
Psoriasis is characterized by well-demarcated, erythematous plaques with silvery scale. It commonly appears on the knees, elbows, and scalp. There can be associated nail changes (nail pits, onycholysis). This patient's clinical presentation is not consistent with psoriasis.

**Bibliography**

Eberhardt RT, Raffetto JD. Chronic venous insufficiency. Circulation. 2014 Jul 22;130(4):333-46. PMID: 25047584

This content was last updated in August 2018.