
### Correct Answer: A) Excision 

**Educational Objective:** Treat an epidermal inclusion cyst.

#### **Key Point:** Excision is the most appropriate treatment for bothersome epidermal inclusion cysts since the epithelial lining must be removed for complete treatment.

This patient has an epidermal inclusion cyst (sometimes called epidermoid cyst), and the most appropriate treatment is excision. The diagnosis of epidermal inclusion cysts is clinical. Epidermal inclusion cysts range from a few millimeters to several centimeters in size and are subepidermal, freely movable nodules with an epithelial lining and a core of accumulated keratin debris. They are most commonly found on the trunk. Epidermal inclusion cysts are often incorrectly referred to as “sebaceous cysts,” a term that is erroneous because they possess keratin rather than sebum. Often they have a central punctum by which foul-smelling material can be expressed; the odor is derived from the presence of anaerobic bacteria. Epidermal inclusion cysts are benign but are frequently removed if they become bothersome to the patient. In this case, treatment is by excision with removal of the entire cyst wall.
When epidermal inclusion cysts rupture, they may become tender, inflamed, and occasionally infected. Ruptured cysts are often mistaken for furuncles or infectious abscesses. Ruptured cysts are treated with incision and drainage, and intralesional glucocorticoid injections may be used to reduce the inflammation.
Incision, as well as incision with drainage, can lead to temporary improvement of an inflamed epidermal cyst; however, recurrences are common as the epithelial lining must be removed for complete treatment. Therefore, these are not the preferred treatment.
Antibiotics are rarely required; they should only be used when there is concern for secondary infection.

**Bibliography**

Higgins JC, Maher MH, Douglas MS. Diagnosing common benign skin tumors. Am Fam Physician. 2015;92:601-7. PMID: 26447443

This content was last updated in August 2018.