
### Correct Answer: B) Melasma 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose melasma.

#### **Key Point:** Melasma is an acquired hypermelanotic condition most commonly affecting women of childbearing age; it is characterized by tan-brown reticulated patches in the centrofacial, malar, and mandible areas.

This patient has melasma, an acquired hypermelanotic condition most commonly affecting women of childbearing age. It presents as tan-brown reticulated patches in the centrofacial, malar, and mandible areas. Pigmentation can develop rapidly, often over weeks. Melasma is more apparent or more frequent in patients with darker skin and who live in sunny areas. The pathogenesis is unknown. Common causes are hormonal factors such as pregnancy and oral contraceptives, ultraviolet light, and genetic predisposition. While melasma has no medical significance, it can be very distressing to patients. Treatment is challenging and involves strict sun avoidance and topical depigmenting agents and chemical peels.
Irritant contact dermatitis is caused by a direct toxic effect on the epidermis from exposure to a chemical such as a cleaning agent, other caustic substances, or repeated wetting and drying. For example, excessive washing with harsh soap will often lead to dry irritated skin, which is not immune mediated. This patient's skin findings include primarily hyperpigmentation without evidence of dry irritated skin, making irritant contact dermatitis unlikely.
Morbilliform (meaning measles-like) drug eruption is characterized by a sudden generalized symmetrical appearance of bright red macules and papules most prominently on the trunk and extremities. Systemic symptoms include pruritus and sometimes low-grade fever. Eruptions typically start within 1 week of starting a new medication. This patient's brown pigmentation on her face without systemic symptoms is not compatible with a morbilliform drug reaction.
Postinflammatory hyperpigmentation is a darkening of the skin resulting from cutaneous inflammation. Common causes include acne vulgaris and eczematous dermatoses. The duration of postinflammatory pigmentary changes varies, depending on the location and degree of inflammation. Hyperpigmentation on the lower legs can take several years to fade. Some postinflammatory pigment changes are permanent. Treatment of postinflammatory pigment changes includes treatment of any underlying skin inflammation, sun avoidance or sun protection, and consideration of a bleaching cream. The patient had no history of a previous inflammatory skin condition making postinflammatory hyperpigmentation an unlikely diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Sheth VM, Pandya AG. Melasma: a comprehensive update: part I. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2011;65:689-97; quiz 698. PMID: 21920241 doi:10.1016/j.jaad.2010.12.046

This content was last updated in August 2018.