
### Correct Answer: D) HIV testing 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose HIV-associated seborrheic dermatitis.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with new or explosive onset of seborrheic dermatitis, or seborrheic dermatitis that is severe or extensive, found in unusual locations, or is resistant to treatment, should be evaluated for HIV infection.

This patient has new-onset seborrheic dermatitis that is unresponsive to typical therapy, and he should be tested for HIV. Seborrheic dermatitis presents as erythematous patches with greasy scale on the scalp, nasolabial folds, and chest. This condition is extremely common in HIV patients, and most patients with AIDS have some evidence of seborrheic dermatitis. The incidence and severity of seborrheic dermatitis is also increased in patients with neurologic conditions, in particular Parkinson disease. Patients with new or explosive onset of seborrheic dermatitis, or seborrheic dermatitis that is severe or extensive, found in unusual locations, or is resistant to treatment, should be evaluated for HIV infection.
Patients with diabetes mellitus can develop a wide range of skin findings such as hyperpigmentation of acanthosis nigricans, which tends to present in the intertriginous areas, particularly in the axillae, in persons with obesity and diabetes. Patients with type 1 diabetes are at increased risk for development of vitiligo. Patients with diabetes may develop orange, atrophic plaques on their anterior shins (necrobiosis lipoidica). Other cutaneous findings associated with diabetes are bullous diabeticorum (large, asymptomatic, noninflammatory bullae on the lower extremities) and scleredema (an uncommon skin finding characterized by edematous induration of the upper back). Diabetic dermopathy (multiple hyperpigmented macules on the anterior shins) is one of the most common cutaneous findings. Seborrheic dermatitis is not associated with diabetes.
Hyperlipidemia may be associated with xanthomas. Xanthomas are localized lipid deposits in organs and their cutaneous manifestations include several subtypes, most commonly eruptive xanthomas, tuberous xanthomas, tendinous xanthomas, and plane xanthomas. The subtype of xanthoma can often predict the most likely associated underlying disorder. Seborrheic dermatitis is not associated with hyperlipidemia.
Chronic hepatitis C infection is associated with porphyria cutanea tarda and lichen planus. Porphyria cutanea tarda presents with small, transient, easily ruptured vesicles in sun-exposed areas, mainly on the hands. Hypertrichosis may be seen on the tops of the hands or cheeks. Lichen planus is an acute eruption of purple, pruritic, polygonal papules that most commonly develops on the flexural surfaces, especially the wrists and ankles. Lichen planus can also occur in the mucous membranes appearing as white plaques. Seborrheic dermatitis is not associated with hepatitis C infection.

**Bibliography**

Tschachler E. The dermatologist and the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Clin Dermatol. 2014;32:286-9. PMID: 24559565 doi:10.1016/j.clindermatol.2013.08.012

This content was last updated in August 2018.