
### Correct Answer: C) Localized scleroderma (morphea) 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose localized scleroderma (morphea).

#### **Key Point:** Localized scleroderma (morphea) is characterized as isolated sclerotic circumscribed plaques; it is not associated with Raynaud phenomenon or systemic disease and does not include sclerodactyly.

This patient has localized scleroderma, or morphea. Localized scleroderma is one of the scleroderma spectrum disorders, a group of diseases sharing the feature of skin hardening. The scleroderma spectrum disorders include systemic sclerosis (SSc), localized scleroderma, and scleroderma-like conditions. SSc is further characterized as two distinct subsets based on skin involvement: limited SSc and diffuse SSC. In limited SSc, scleroderma is restricted to the fingers and hands and, to a lesser extent, the face and neck. Scleroderma involving the fingers and hands, chest, abdomen, forearms, upper arms, and shoulders indicates diffuse SSc. Morphea is a localized form of scleroderma limited to one or more indurated plaques confined to the torso and proximal extremities. Although histologic findings of morphea are identical to those seen in patients with SSc, visceral manifestations and Raynaud phenomenon are absent. This patient has a generalized variant of morphea called pansclerotic morphea, which often appears in areas of friction and pressure, such as the waistband area or inframammary regions. Diffuse and limited SSc involve the fingers first, and sclerosis proceeds proximally, sometimes very rapidly.
Scleredema has a variable clinical presentation but is most easily recognizable as large, noninflammatory woody-indurated plaques over the shoulder girdle, neck, and upper extremities. In adults, scleredema occurs most commonly as a complication of diabetes mellitus but may be seen following a streptococcal infection in children or as a complication of monoclonal gammopathy.
Scleromyxedema is characterized by deposition of mucin with large numbers of stellate fibroblasts in the dermis, presenting as waxy yellow-red papules overlying thickened skin. It affects the face, upper torso, and upper extremities. The condition is rare but is most frequently associated with paraproteinemia and may therefore occur in the setting of multiple myeloma or AL amyloidosis. In a few patients, a mild inflammatory myopathy may accompany the disorder.

**Bibliography**

Sperber K, Ash J, Gutwein F, Wasserman A, Rao V, Tratenberg M. Localized scleroderma: a clinical review. Curr Rheumatol Rev. 2016. PMID: 27604889

This content was last updated in August 2018.