
### Correct Answer: B) Melanoma in situ, lentigo maligna 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose lentigo maligna.

#### **Key Point:** Melanoma in situ, lentigo maligna subtype is typically found on the head and neck region of older persons; it is associated with frequent chronic ultraviolet light exposure.

This patient has a melanoma in situ, lentigo maligna subtype. The clinical features that suggest melanoma are represented by the mnemonic “ABCDE,” where “A” stands for Asymmetry, “B” for irregular Border, “C” for multiple Colors, “D” for Diameter greater than 6 mm, and “E” for Evolution, meaning increasing size. The more of these features a pigmented lesion possesses, the more worrisome it is for melanoma. Unfortunately, melanomas do not always adhere to these criteria; they may be red or flesh colored, smaller than 6 mm, perfectly symmetric, or homogeneously colored. Thus, a low threshold for biopsy should be present for any atypical-appearing skin lesion, changing or symptomatic nevus, or any mole that stands out from the background nevi pattern of the particular patient.
Melanoma may be further classified into several different subtypes. Lentigo maligna is a subtype of melanoma in situ that tends to arise on the head and neck region of elderly persons, especially those with a long history of sun damage. They are more indolent and slow growing. As the name would imply, it clinically often resembles a benign solar lentigo. A biopsy would provide the definitive diagnosis.
Melanocytic nevi are benign growths of melanocytes commonly referred to as “moles.” The junctional component of the term indicates where the melanocytic nests are located. In junctional melanocytic nevi, the melanocytic nests are located in the dermal-epidermal junction. They clinically appear as brown-to-black uniform macules during early childhood and can increase in number through middle age. It is very rare for a new melanocytic nevus to appear at the age of 69.
Nodular melanoma is the most aggressive form of malignant melanoma. It is rapid growing and begins with an invasive vertical growth phase. It appears as blue-black, smooth, or eroded nodules, occurring anywhere on the body. Nodular melanomas are responsible for most deaths from melanoma.
Solar lentigines are brown, well-demarcated macules and patches that occur on the sun-exposed skin of older persons, particularly the face and dorsal hands. Previously, they were often referred to as “liver spots” because their color resembles that of the liver. Although benign, they are a marker for someone who has relatively fair skin and has received a significant amount of sun exposure over the years. They frequently occur near more worrisome lesions such as actinic keratoses or skin cancers. Lentigines with atypical features or broad, growing lentigines (particularly on the face of older, light-skinned persons) should be biopsied to rule out lentigo maligna. This patient has had extensive sun exposure and now has a growing lesion making lentigo maligna a more likely diagnosis. A biopsy is required to establish the correct diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Longo C, Pellacani G. Melanomas. Dermatol Clin. 2016;34:411-419. PMID: 27692447 doi:10.1016/j.det.2016.05.004

This content was last updated in August 2018.