
### Correct Answer: D) Topical erythromycin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat mild inflammatory acne in pregnancy.

#### **Key Point:** Management of dermatologic conditions during pregnancy with topical agents should be considered before prescribing systemic medications because they are lower risk, with the exception of tazarotene (category X).

The patient has some mild inflammatory and comedonal acne that would be best treated with topical erythromycin. There are two main types of acne lesions: inflammatory and noninflammatory. The prototypical lesion of noninflammatory acne is the comedone, which results from follicular plugging by keratin. Comedones can be open (“blackheads”) or closed (“whiteheads”). Acne typically starts with closed comedones that are visible as subtle small 1- to 2-mm flesh-colored papules. Inflammatory acne consists of erythematous pustules, nodules, or cysts (deeper and often painful) that occur later and are the result of inflammation in and around the hair follicle. Lesion morphology should guide treatment. It is also important to consider the safety of medications used for acne treatment during pregnancy. Topical erythromycin is pregnancy category B and can be used safely during pregnancy. To reduce the incidence of bacterial resistance, topical erythromycin can be combined with topical benzoyl peroxide, also safe in pregnancy.
Doxycycline is pregnancy category D and can cause dental staining and enamel hypoplasia when used in the second and third trimesters; it is not to be used during pregnancy.
Isotretinoin is a teratogen (pregnancy category X) and can cause fetal loss, especially when used in the first trimester. It can also cause severe head and cardiac defects. Oral isotretinoin is reserved for the treatment of severe nodulocystic acne and gram-negative folliculitis in nonpregnant patients. Patients must be monitored carefully once therapy with isotretinoin is initiated and participation in the risk prevention program iPLEDGE is mandated for all patients, providers, and dispensing pharmacies. Mandatory office visits are required every 30 days with regular monitoring for pregnancy and medication side effects.
Acne in women, particularly those whose acne flares around menses, may respond to spironolactone. Spironolactone is pregnancy category C, and in rat studies has caused delayed sexual maturation in female rats and feminization of male rat fetuses.
Topical retinoids are appropriate for comedonal and mild inflammatory acne. Tazarotene is a topical retinoid, but is rated pregnancy category X and should not be used in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Murase JE, Heller MM, Butler DC. Safety of dermatologic medications in pregnancy and lactation: Part I. Pregnancy. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2014;70:401.e1-14; quiz 415. PMID: 24528911 doi:10.1016/j.jaad.2013.09.010

This content was last updated in August 2018.