
### Correct Answer: B) Morbilliform drug reaction 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose morbilliform drug reaction.

#### **Key Point:** Characteristic findings of morbilliform drug reaction include erythematous papules coalescing into plaques, often with some pruritus, and no accompanying systemic symptoms.

This patient is experiencing a classical morbilliform, or exanthematous, drug eruption, which is the most common form of cutaneous adverse drug reaction. Morbilliform eruptions begin 4 to 14 days after the initiation of a new medication. Characteristic skin findings begin as coalescing fine monomorphic papules on the trunk and spread distally and symmetrically. Peripheral eosinophilia or leukocytosis may be seen, but other signs of systemic involvement are not present. The therapy is to stop the medication and treat symptomatically with antihistamines and medium-potency topical glucocorticoids for a brief time while the reaction resolves.
Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) is another severe cutaneous adverse reaction. Its onset is notably remote from initiation of the offending agent, often by as much as 2 to 6 weeks. While eosinophilia is a feature of DRESS syndrome, DRESS is associated with other signs of systemic involvement such as liver chemistry abnormalities. DRESS may manifest a morbilliform appearance, but typical features also include skin pain and pronounced facial edema that are absent in morbilliform drug eruption.
Stevens-Johnson syndrome results in necrosis and sloughing of the epidermis. Skin pain and involvement of mucous membranes is a key feature. Rare cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome are precipitated by an infection, but this patient's skin findings are more consistent with morbilliform eruption.
Viral exanthem may appear identical in morphology to a morbilliform drug eruption. However, the appearance of this rash should be closer to the onset of symptoms of the infection, as opposed to 3 weeks later. In this case, a common cause of morbilliform reaction and development of rash within 4 days of starting the medication makes morbilliform reaction more likely.

**Bibliography**

Ferner RE. Adverse drug reactions in dermatology. Clin Exp Dermatol. 2015;40:105-9; quiz 109-10. PMID: 25622648 doi:10.1111/ced.12572

This content was last updated in August 2018.