
### Correct Answer: D) Vitiligo 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose vitiligo.

#### **Key Point:** Vitiligo is an autoimmune disease that causes the loss of melanocytes and subsequent depigmentation of the skin appearing as completely white, regular, well-demarcated macules or patches with no scale.

The patient has vitiligo, an autoimmune disease that causes the loss of melanocytes and subsequent depigmentation of the skin. It usually presents in childhood or young adulthood with a peak onset between 10 and 30 years. The most commonly affected areas involve the extensor surfaces such as the dorsal hands, elbows, and knees, and the periorificial areas such as around the mouth, eyes, rectum, and genitals, and it is often bilaterally symmetrical. It appears as completely white, well-demarcated regular macules or patches with no scale. Its onset is insidious and asymptomatic, starting as smaller macules and gradually enlarging. Treatment is challenging and typically starts with topical glucocorticoids or immunomodulators. Vitiligo can be associated with other autoimmune conditions such as diabetes mellitus, alopecia areata, or Hashimoto thyroiditis.
Pityriasis alba is characterized by hypopigmented patches and is most often seen on the face and upper arms of dark-pigmented children. Lesions typically manifest some border irregularity and are associated with a fine scale. The cause is unknown and considered a mild eczematous process. The irregular borders and scale of pityriasis alba are not consistent with vitiligo.
Tinea versicolor is a superficial fungal infection caused by Malassezia furfur and is most common in warm, humid environments. It presents as hypopigmented, hyperpigmented, or pink patches that are dry and slightly scaly. Although the patches can occur anywhere, the neck, upper back, and chest, with extension to the abdomen or extremities, are commonly affected. These areas often become more noticeable after exposure to the sun because the organism prevents the skin from tanning. Scaly patches are not consistent with vitiligo.
Tuberous sclerosis is an inherited disorder with the classic triad of angiofibromas, mental deficiency, and epilepsy. Other associated features include ash-leaf hypomelanotic macules, periungual fibromas, collagenomas, and café-au-lait macules. Hypomelanotic macules range in number and are found in about 85% of tuberous sclerosis cases. They are present at birth or develop during childhood. The appearance of this patient's depigmented lesions at age 20 and absence of epilepsy and mental deficiency makes tuberous sclerosis an unlikely diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Alikhan A, Felsten LM, Daly M, Petronic-Rosic V. Vitiligo: a comprehensive overview Part I. Introduction, epidemiology, quality of life, diagnosis, differential diagnosis, associations, histopathology, etiology, and work-up. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2011;65:473-91. PMID: 21839315 doi:10.1016/j.jaad.2010.11.061

This content was last updated in August 2018.