
### Correct Answer: D) Hidradenitis suppurativa 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose hidradenitis suppurativa.

#### **Key Point:** Hidradenitis suppurativa is characterized by inflammatory abscesses, sinus tracts, and scarring in intertriginous areas; it is associated with smoking, obesity, and the metabolic syndrome.

This patient has hidradenitis suppurativa, a chronic inflammatory disease that predominantly affects the apocrine-gland–bearing areas of the skin. The common sites are the axillae, breasts and inframammary creases, inguinal folds, and gluteal cleft. It is recognized by its characteristic inflammatory abscesses, sinus tracts (with foul-smelling drainage), and scarring in intertriginous areas. The pathogenesis of hidradenitis begins with follicular occlusion but not infection or inflammation of the apocrine glands. Following occlusion, secretions build up in the follicular duct and result in rupture and a subsequent inflammatory reaction that resembles a bacterial abscess. Following this, an acute inflammatory reaction is triggered in the surrounding tissue. The role of bacteria is controversial and is likely a secondary colonization since lesions are initially sterile, and antibiotics are not entirely effective in preventing new lesions. Hidradenitis is associated with smoking, obesity, and metabolic syndrome. The chronic and recurrent nature of hidradenitis helps distinguish it from other infectious causes. Treatment is difficult. Clindamycin-rifampin combination antibiotics, infliximab, and surgical excision have the greatest evidence of effectiveness. It is important to recognize hidradenitis suppurativa early in order to initiate management to reduce scarring and progression of the disease.
Carbuncles can present as tender nodules with purulent drainage; however, these typically respond well to antibiotics and are not chronic in nature. Recurrent carbuncles or abscesses should raise suspicion for possible hidradenitis. Sinus tracts are not typically involved with carbuncles.
Chancroid is a sexually transmitted disease caused by Haemophilus ducreyi. It presents with one or more painful ulcerations, typically on the penis or labia. Inguinal lymphadenopathy may be present, but sinus tracts and inflammatory abscesses are not seen.
Epidermal inclusion cysts are benign nodules with a central punctum and a chamber containing keratinaceous material. When punctured, they often eject a copious amount of foul-smelling keratinaceous material. The cyst wall may occasionally rupture, leading to the formation of a tender red swollen nodule that resembles a furuncle. Epidermal inclusion cysts are typically solitary lesions with no sinus tract involvement and minimal scarring.

**Bibliography**

Micheletti RG. An update on the diagnosis and treatment of hidradenitis suppurativa. Cutis. 2015 Dec;96(6 Suppl):7-12. PMID: 27051885

This content was last updated in August 2018.