
### Correct Answer: D) Skin biopsies 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose urticarial vasculitis.

#### **Key Point:** Skin biopsies should be performed to evaluate for urticarial vasculitis when individual urticarial lesions are present for longer than 24 hours.

This patient has urticarial vasculitis, and the most appropriate management is to obtain skin biopsies to confirm the diagnosis. A routine skin biopsy (for histology) and a biopsy for direct immunofluorescence (for immunoglobulin and complement deposits) should both be obtained. Typical urticarial wheals last for less than 24 hours (with individual lesions lasting only a few hours), resolve without cutaneous sequelae, and are pruritic and not painful. Urticarial vasculitis differs from urticaria in that individual lesions persist longer than 24 hours. Urticarial vasculitis more commonly presents with painful or burning lesions instead of pruritus and leave bruise-like changes when they resolve, which is atypical for usual urticaria. Patients with urticarial vasculitis often have an underlying autoimmune disease, most often lupus erythematosus, but even in the absence of an associated autoimmune disease, patients with urticarial vasculitis (particularly hypocomplementemic urticarial vasculitis) are at risk of multisystem disease, including nephritis. The patient's joint pain suggests the possibility of an additional underlying disorder. Skin biopsies are important in making the diagnosis and guiding further work-up and treatment.
Epicutaneous patch testing is performed to diagnose allergic contact dermatitis. Allergic contact dermatitis can occasionally present as typical urticarial, but this patient's history suggests urticarial vasculitis.
Physical urticaria is induced by a physical stimulus such as the sun, sweating, physical pressure, or cold temperature. An ice cube provocation test is performed to help diagnose cold urticaria. This test would not be helpful in diagnosing urticarial vasculitis.
Neither allergic contact dermatitis nor physical urticaria can explain the patient's joint symptoms.
Treatment of urticaria is most effective with long-acting antihistamines, since they help treat active disease and prevent new flares of urticaria. Systemic glucocorticoids and immunosuppressive agents have been used for urticaria, but in most patients, maximizing the dose of the long-acting antihistamines is equally effective and safer. Glucocorticoids are often the mainstay of treatment for urticarial vasculitis, but it would be inappropriate to commit a patient to this therapy without first confirming the diagnosis.
Topical glucocorticoids, such as triamcinolone, have limited efficacy in typical and urticarial vasculitis and are not the best management for either condition.

**Bibliography**

Bernstein JA, Lang DM, Khan DA, et al. The diagnosis and management of acute and chronic urticaria: 2014 update. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2014 May;133(5):1270-7. PMID: 24766875

This content was last updated in August 2018.