
### Correct Answer: C) Pyoderma gangrenosum 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose pyoderma gangrenosum.

#### **Key Point:** Pyoderma gangrenosum presents as a painful, exudative ulcer with a purulent base and ragged, edematous, violaceous, “overhanging” border; it may be idiopathic but it can be associated with an underlying disease.

This patient has pyoderma gangrenosum (PG). PG is an autoimmune neutrophilic dermatosis in which neutrophils invade and fill the dermis, leading to marked tissue edema and possible ulceration. PG may also present with bullous lesions, pustulonodules, and vegetative plaques. The typical history is a small pustule or red nodule that may develop after trauma and rapidly expands causing an edematous, infiltrated, actively inflamed border and a painful, exudative wet ulcer. Classically the border is described as violaceous or “gun-metal gray” and, because of the nature of the inflammation, the epidermis often overlies the ulcer, with a “hanging border” or residual thin anastomosing strands of epidermis remaining over the expanding ulcer. These lesions also display pathergy, a worsening/expansion of a lesion after trauma. Because of this characteristic, debridement should be avoided in these lesions.
Although pyoderma gangrenosum can be idiopathic, it is most commonly associated with inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn disease and ulcerative colitis). It is also associated with several other conditions including leukemia, myeloma, hepatitis C, and systemic lupus erythematosus. Management starts with investigating and treating the underlying cause. Depending on the severity of disease, treatment also includes application of potent topical glucocorticoids, systemic glucocorticoids, and immunosuppressive agents such as azathioprine, cyclosporine, and infliximab.
Acrodermatitis enteropathica (AE) is an inherited or acquired metabolic disorder characterized by perioral and acral (in the extremities) erythematous and vesiculobullous dermatitis and alopecia related to zinc deficiency. AE has been associated with Crohn disease, but not ulcerative colitis. This patient's ulcer is not consistent with AE.
Clinically, lesions of calciphylaxis are exquisitely painful subcutaneous nodules or plaques with overlying red-brown discoloration and often superimposed angulated purpuric patches, often with central necrosis. Patients with advanced calciphylaxis may have ulceration or large, thick, black eschar formation. Given this patient's lack of kidney disease, her history of inflammatory bowel disease, and the description of the ulceration, pyoderma gangrenosum is the most likely diagnosis.
Venous stasis ulcers tend to be associated with chronic venous insufficiency and arise on the medial aspects of the lower legs. They are typically shallow and lack the characteristic undermined borders of PG. This patient also did not have the background venous stasis changes such as edema, varicosities, and pigmentary changes seen in venous stasis ulcerations.

**Bibliography**

Pompeo MQ. Pyoderma gangrenosum: recognition and management. Wounds. 2016 Jan;28(1):7-13. PMID: 26779805

This content was last updated in August 2018.