
### Correct Answer: A) Narrowband ultraviolet B (UVB) phototherapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat psoriasis with narrowband ultraviolet B (UVB) therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Narrowband ultraviolet B (UVB) is the standard form of phototherapy used in the treatment of extensive psoriasis.

Narrowband ultraviolet B (UVB) therapy has become the standard form of phototherapy used in the initial treatment of psoriasis. The light source emits a narrow band of UVB radiation, in this case 311 nm of ultraviolet light. This wavelength was chosen for its efficacy and the fact that this wavelength of light is not absorbed by DNA. The theory is that if the light is not absorbed by DNA, less skin damage will occur, and there will be far fewer skin cancers as a side effect of the therapy. Broadband UVB was the mainstay of therapy until the advent of narrowband UVB. Broadband is still used in some centers today. Broadband UVB emits light in the 280 to 320 nm range; 260 nm is the wavelength of light with the maximum absorption by DNA. DNA absorption of UVB drops off dramatically after 290 nm. Broadband UVB contains wavelengths of light capable of causing DNA damage, leading to ultraviolet skin damage and ultimately skin cancer.
Photodynamic therapy is not used for the treatment of psoriasis, but rather for the treatment of actinic keratoses. Aminolevulinic acid, a chemical precursor of the heme synthesis pathway, is applied to the skin before its exposure to visible blue light. Aminolevulinic acid is used as a photosensitizer and is absorbed by the actinically damaged skin cells; upon exposure to light it causes necrosis of the actinically damaged skin by producing reactive oxygen species. It can be extremely painful for patients to undergo photodynamic therapy.
Psoralen plus ultraviolet A (PUVA) therapy is now used almost exclusively for the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. It is effective for treating psoriasis, but it has been shown to cause an increase in the risk of nonmelanoma and melanoma skin cancer. For these reasons, it is not used as first-line therapy for psoriasis.
Oral retinoid (acitretin) plus PUVA therapy, also called RePUVA, has been used in the past for treating psoriasis and cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. It is highly efficacious, but has the highest side effect profile of the various forms of phototherapy and is not used frequently today. Short-term complications of RePUVA include profound nausea in some and risk of treatment-related burns. Long-term complications include an 11-fold increase in cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma and slight increase in the risk for basal cell carcinoma, melanocytic atypia, and melanoma.
Ultraviolet A (UVA) alone is rarely used in the dermatology clinic. Morphea (localized scleroderma) has been shown to benefit from exposure to UVA phototherapy.

**Bibliography**

Lim HW, Silpa-archa N, Amadi U, Menter A, Van Voorhees AS, Lebwohl M. Phototherapy in dermatology: A call for action [Editorial]. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2015;72:1078-80. PMID: 25981004 doi:10.1016/j.jaad.2015.03.017

This content was last updated in August 2018.