
### Correct Answer: D) Polyarteritis nodosa 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose cutaneous-only polyarteritis nodosa.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with cutaneous-only polyarteritis nodosa experience tender subcutaneous nodules from vascular inflammation, stellate erosions, or ulcerations from ischemia in the watershed of the affected vessels, and may develop livedo reticularis or livedoid purpura.

This patient has the cutaneous-only variant of polyarteritis nodosa (PAN). PAN is a medium-vessel vasculitis not associated with the development of ANCAs. The skin may be the only organ involved (cutaneous-only PAN) or it may be involved as part of a systemic disease. Biopsy of an affected organ will show medium-vessel vasculitis.
Patients with cutaneous-only PAN experience tender subcutaneous nodules from vascular inflammation, stellate erosions, or ulcerations from ischemia in the watershed of the affected vessels, and they may develop livedo reticularis or livedoid purpura. Cutaneous-only disease treatment is guided by symptoms and may include systemic antihistamines, colchicine, dapsone, or immunosuppressants such as azathioprine. Symptoms of systemic PAN may include abdominal pain or gastrointestinal bleeding (if the mesenteric vessels are affected), hypertension (if the renal vessels are affected), neuropathy (typically mononeuritis multiplex), and constitutional symptoms. Biopsy of an affected organ will show a medium-vessel vasculitis. Although patients with systemic PAN are frequently found to have preceding chronic viral hepatitis, most patients with cutaneous-only PAN are not usually virally infected.
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) and microscopic polyangiitis (MPA) are ANCA-associated small- and medium-vessel vasculitides. Skin findings can include palpable purpura; tender subcutaneous nodules; or necrosis of digits, nose, tongue, or genitals. Typical organ involvement includes the upper respiratory tract (including sinuses and ears), lungs, and kidney. GPA is associated with positive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for anti-proteinase 3 antibodies, and MPA is associated with anti-myeloperoxidase antibodies. Biopsy will usually show small-vessel involvement (not present in this case). Although a minority of patients with GPA and MPA may be ANCA-negative, the lack of any other characteristic systemic involvement in the ANCA-negative setting makes it extremely unlikely that this patient has an ANCA-associated vasculitis.
Leukocytoclastic vasculitis (LCV) is a finding, not a diagnosis. It manifests as palpable purpura (not present in this case) and is always secondary to another condition. Infections, autoimmune conditions such as systemic lupus erythematosus or rheumatoid arthritis, or medications may precipitate LCV. It lacks the tender nodules, stellate ulcerations, and livedoid skin changes of a medium-vessel vasculitis.
Takayasu arteritis is a large-vessel vasculitis that typically does not have skin findings; Takayasu arteritis should be suspected in patients under 40 years with unexplained systemic inflammation and/or signs and symptoms of large-vessel impairment.

**Bibliography**

Alibaz-Oner F, Koster MJ, Crowson CS, Makol A, Ytterberg SR, Salvarani C, et al. The clinical spectrum of medium-sized vessel vasculitis. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken). 2016. PMID: 27564269 doi:10.1002/acr.23007

This content was last updated in August 2018.