
### Correct Answer: A) Compression therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat venous stasis ulcers with compression therapy.

#### **Key Point:** The mainstay of venous ulcer treatment consists of compression therapy.

This patient has a venous stasis ulcer, and the most appropriate additional management is compression therapy. Venous stasis ulcers are the most common leg ulcers. Most patients have a history of stasis dermatitis and often have some level of scarring and dyspigmentation on the bilateral lower extremities. Venous stasis ulcers usually occur on the distal lower leg, particularly the medial aspect of the ankle, and may result from a minor trauma, a medical procedure, or an acute stasis dermatitis flare. The symptoms vary from negligible discomfort to significant pain. The ulcers tend to have an irregular border and surrounding hyperpigmentation, and the skin and subcutaneous tissues are thickened, resulting in lipodermatosclerosis (fibrosing panniculitis of the subcutaneous tissue). Patients often have varicose veins and peripheral edema. Treatment is directed toward three main areas: reducing the peripheral edema, creating a wound environment that is conducive to healing, and treating any secondary infection that may be present. Reduction of peripheral edema is achieved by the use of compression stockings, pneumatic compression boots, and compression dressings (Unna boots). Compression is the key to venous ulcer healing.
Oral cephalexin is a treatment for cellulitis and other skin infections. Clues to suggest active infection are rapidly expanding ulcer size, worsening pain, heat, swelling and increased surrounding erythema, and copious exudate; these findings are absent and indicate that oral antibiotics should not be used. Furthermore, the inappropriate use of antibiotics can result in the emergence of resistant organisms.
Oral cilostazol is used to increase peripheral blood flow for the treatment of intermittent claudication. It is sometimes used in the treatment of arterial insufficiency ulcers, but evidence supporting its effectiveness is sparse. Because this patient has a venous stasis ulcer, oral cilostazol would not be used.
The use of topically applied antiseptics, such as hydrogen peroxide, povidone iodine, acetic acid, and sodium hypochlorite, is not supported by evidence. Some animal studies have demonstrated that the cellular toxicities of these agents exceed their bactericidal activities. Therefore, topical antiseptics should not be used in the management of venous ulcers.

**Bibliography**

Kirsner RS, Vivas AC. Lower-extremity ulcers: diagnosis and management. Br J Dermatol. 2015 Aug;173(2):379-90. PMID: 26257052

This content was last updated in August 2018.