
### Correct Answer: B) Prednisone 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose erythroderma following systemic glucocorticoid therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Psoriasis can flare to erythroderma following brief use of systemic glucocorticoids.

Psoriasis vulgaris can flare to erythroderma following use of systemic glucocorticoids. The most common cause of erythroderma, or redness over 80% body surface area, is a preexisting condition. Peripheral edema, erosions from excoriations due to severe pruritus, and scaling are common findings. Owing to compromise of the skin barrier, affected patients are at risk for dehydration, electrolyte abnormalities, protein loss, heat loss, and infection, which can be fatal. Short courses of systemic glucocorticoids in a patient with psoriasis can result in a striking increase in skin disease upon abrupt cessation. The presence of lamellar scale that bleeds when peeled away (Auspitz sign) and nail pitting support the diagnosis of erythrodermic psoriasis.
Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) can also present with erythroderma. This represents a delayed response to a medication several weeks after initiation. Patients present with rash, striking facial edema, peripheral eosinophilia (or less common atypical lymphocytosis), lymphadenopathy, and evidence of organ involvement such as acute kidney injury or abnormal liver chemistry tests.
Sézary syndrome is an acute leukemic variant of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Patients often present with erythroderma, ectropion, and lymphadenopathy. The absence of a preceding history of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma makes this diagnosis unlikely.
Stevens-Johnson syndrome may cause erythroderma, but it manifests as epidermal necrosis with dusky plaques that slough rather than scale. Mucous membrane involvement is a keystone of diagnosis and is absent in this patient. Most cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome are caused by a medication.

**Bibliography**

Mistry N, Gupta A, Alavi A, Sibbald RG. A review of the diagnosis and management of erythroderma (generalized red skin). Adv Skin Wound Care. 2015;28:228-36; quiz 237-8. PMID: 25882661 doi:10.1097/01.ASW.0000463573.40637.73

This content was last updated in August 2018.