
### Correct Answer: A) Potassium hydroxide examination 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate an annular, scaly patch with a potassium hydroxide examination.

#### **Key Point:** Diagnosis of dermatophyte infection can be performed by examination of the scale with potassium hydroxide; the presence of branching hyphae is diagnostic.

The most appropriate diagnostic test to perform on this patient is the potassium hydroxide (KOH) examination. This patient's skin lesions are erythematous annular patches with noticeable surface scale. When confronted with an annular scaly patch, the most common diagnosis is tinea from a dermatophyte infection. Direct microscopic examination of KOH-prepared specimens is the simplest, cheapest method used for the diagnosis of dermatophyte infections of the skin. After scraping the leading edge of scale with a number 15 blade or the edge of the glass slide, apply 2 to 3 drops of KOH on the debris and then apply a coverslip. Evaluate the specimen initially with 10 power magnification. Tinea is confirmed by the presence of septated branching hyphae.
A scabies preparation is used when the patient has burrows. Burrows are pathognomonic for a scabies infection and are most frequently found along the wrists, fingers, and palms. To obtain the specimen, place a drop of mineral oil on the burrow and scrape the area with a number 15 blade. After placing the specimen on a glass slide, apply the coverslip, and examine with 10 power magnification to identify mites, eggs, and/or feces.
A Tzanck preparation should be performed on patients when the skin findings are concerning for a herpes virus infection. Grouped vesicles on an erythematous base or tender vesicles in a dermatomal distribution are both primary skin findings in which a Tzanck preparation can be performed. This is done by deroofing the blister and scraping the base of the blister. The scraping is smeared on a glass microscope slide and stained with an appropriate stain (Tzanck or Giemsa). The presence of multinucleated giant cells is diagnostic for herpes viral infections. This finding, however, cannot distinguish the responsible virus. Viral culture or direct immunofluorescence can be used to identify the specific virus, if needed.
A Wood lamp is an ultraviolet light source that can be used to evaluate hypo- and depigmentation lesions as seen in vitiligo. Vitiligo will appear bright white and sharply delineated when examined with a Wood light and is most helpful in fair-skinned persons where depigmentation may not otherwise be visible. A Wood lamp can also detect skin fluorescence associated with erythrasma and the urine fluorescence in patients with porphyria cutanea tarda.

**Bibliography**

Levitt JO, Levitt BH, Akhavan A, Yanofsky H. The sensitivity and specificity of potassium hydroxide smear and fungal culture relative to clinical assessment in the evaluation of tinea pedis: a pooled analysis. Dermatol Res Pract. 2010;2010:764843. PMID: 20672004 doi:10.1155/2010/764843

This content was last updated in August 2018.