
### Correct Answer: A) Calciphylaxis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose calciphylaxis.

#### **Key Point:** Calciphylaxis lesions are intensely painful, angulated, retiform purpuric patches with areas of black necrotic tissue that may form bullae, ulcerate, and leave a hard, firm eschar in patients with end-stage kidney disease.

This patient has calciphylaxis. Patients with calciphylaxis present with angulated, lacy, or netlike retiform purpuric patches with areas of central dusky or black necrotic tissue that may form bullae, ulcerate, and leave a hard eschar. For unknown reasons, calcium is deposited in the medial layer of small arteries, which leads to thrombus, infarction of the overlying skin, and significant pain. The thighs and lower abdomen have been reported as the most frequent areas of involvement. Calciphylaxis typically occurs in patients who have underlying end-stage kidney disease; however, only 1% to 2% of patients on dialysis will develop calciphylaxis. Persons with calciphylaxis will usually have a corrected calcium-phosphorus product greater than 60 to 70 mg2/dL2.
Therapy is difficult and multifactorial. It includes surgery to debride any areas of potential infection and parathyroidectomy in those patients with hyperparathyroidism. Medical therapies are dialysis, intravenous sodium thiosulfate, decreasing calcium intake, bisphosphonates, and meticulous wound care. Infection leading to sepsis is the leading cause of death. Prevention of infection is critically important.
Kyrle disease is most frequently seen in persons with diabetes and end-stage kidney disease. It can present with an individual papule or numerous widespread hyperpigmented papules. The papules have an umbilicated central core. Kyrle disease is caused by collagen extrusion from the dermis into and through the epidermis.
Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis is characterized by yellowish, thickened papules and nodules with progressive skin tightening and sclerosis. If biopsied, the skin findings mimic those of scleromyxedema. This condition has been seen in patients undergoing dialysis for end-stage kidney disease who were exposed to gadolinium-containing contrast dyes.
Progressive systemic sclerosis presents similarly to nephrogenic systemic fibrosis. It is an autoimmune disease with cutaneous and systemic findings. The cutaneous findings are thickening of the skin, which results in lack of joint mobility, dilated periungual capillary loops, Raynaud phenomenon, digital ulcerations, and digital infarcts.
Ulcerations and eschar formation on the upper thighs do not occur in Kyrle disease, nephrogenic systemic sclerosis, or progressive systemic sclerosis.

**Bibliography**

Nigwekar SU, Kroshinsky D, Nazarian RM, Goverman J, Malhotra R, Jackson VA, et al. Calciphylaxis: risk factors, diagnosis, and treatment. Am J Kidney Dis. 2015;66:133-46. PMID: 25960299 doi:10.1053/j.ajkd.2015.01.034

This content was last updated in August 2018.