
### Correct Answer: B) Incision and drainage 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a cutaneous abscess.

#### **Key Point:** Primary treatment for abscess with no systemic signs of infection is incision and drainage; antibiotics should be added only if systemic symptoms or signs are present.

This patient has an abscess with no systemic signs of infection, so the most appropriate treatment would be incision and drainage. Gram stain and culture of pus from carbuncles and abscesses are strongly recommended, but treatment without these studies is reasonable in typical cases. Treatment with antibiotics is not indicated unless there are systemic signs of infection including fever (38 °C [100.4 °F]), tachycardia (>90/min), tachypnea (>24/min), an abnormal leukocyte count (>12,000/μL or <400/μL), or immunocompromise. This patient does not present with any of these indications for antibiotic therapy. If antibiotic therapy is indicated, empiric treatment of purulent skin and soft tissue infection (furuncle, carbuncle, and abscess) should include an agent that is active against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), for example, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or doxycycline.
Antibiotic therapy based on culture results is an inappropriate choice for this cutaneous abscess. Bacterial cultures should be obtained from the abscess, but treatment with incision and drainage should proceed before the culture results return. Antibiotics should be added to incision and drainage if there are systemic symptoms. If antibiotic therapy is indicated, it should be initiated empirically prior to obtaining culture results. The culture results can be used to modify the antibiotic selection if necessary.
Incision and drainage plus oral cephalexin should not be used for abscesses without systemic signs of infection. In addition, if antibiotic therapy were indicated, cephalexin lacks MRSA activity and would be an inappropriate antibiotic selection for an abscess.
Oral trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole would be an appropriate choice for an abscess if antibiotic therapy were indicated. Because this patient's skin and soft tissue infection is categorized as mild (no systemic signs or symptoms), antibiotic therapy is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Stevens DL, Bisno AL, Chambers HF, Dellinger EP, et al. Practice guidelines for the diagnosis and management of skin and soft tissue infections: 2014 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2014 Jul 15;59(2):e10-52. PMID: 24973422

This content was last updated in August 2018.