
### Correct Answer: D) Discontinue triamcinolone cream 

**Educational Objective:** Treat striae and atrophy from topical glucocorticoids.

#### **Key Point:** Side effects from topical glucocorticoids include thinned skin, striae distensae (stretch marks), and easy bruising, and are likely to occur when they are used for extended periods of time, especially in skin folds or areas of occlusion.

This patient should discontinue the triamcinolone cream. He has striae distensae, or stretch marks, recognized as erythematous, violaceous, or hypopigmented linear striations secondary to topical glucocorticoid use. Topical glucocorticoids decrease the production of collagen resulting in atrophy, stretch marks, and telangiectasia. The application of any topical glucocorticoid to normal skin for prolonged periods of time, especially under occlusion, may lead to these changes. Some persons are more prone to these side effects, which may occur after a brief period, whereas others take months of usage before side effects appear. Areas of the skin especially prone to atrophy are the thighs, groin, axillae, and face. Potent topical glucocorticoids should be avoided in these areas to reduce the risk of atrophy, and the patient should be counseled to apply the topical glucocorticoids only to lesional skin, not normal-appearing skin. There is little data to support any therapy, including topical tretinoin, to reverse the side effects of topical glucocorticoids. Over time, patients will see an improvement in the atrophy as the effects of the glucocorticoids wear off and normal collagen production returns.
Triamcinolone is a medium-potency topical glucocorticoid. Adding a stronger topical glucocorticoid such as clobetasol would likely make the symptoms worse.
This patient's findings are most consistent with striae distensae. The scaly annular patch of a superficial fungal infection is not present, and therefore a topical antifungal agent such as terbinafine will not be of any benefit.
Calcipotriene is a vitamin D analogue used to treat psoriasis, and it has not been shown to cause atrophy, striae, or telangiectasia. Discontinuation of the calcipotriene would not result in improvement of the skin atrophy and striae in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Barnes L, Kaya G, Rollason V. Topical corticosteroid-induced skin atrophy: a comprehensive review. Drug Saf. 2015;38:493-509. PMID: 25862024 doi:10.1007/s40264-015-0287-7

This content was last updated in August 2018.