
### Correct Answer: C) Inverse psoriasis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose inverse psoriasis.

#### **Key Point:** Inverse psoriasis is characterized by red, thin plaques with variable amounts of scale in the axillae, intergluteal cleft, and perineum, and under the breasts and pannus.

Based on the finding of the well-demarcated, erythematous plaques in intertriginous areas, this patient has inverse psoriasis. Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory dermatosis that manifests with scaling, variably pruritic plaques that may be recalcitrant to topical therapy. There are many different patterns of psoriasis including classic psoriasis vulgaris (erythematous patches with a thick, adherent scale), inverse psoriasis (red, thin plaques with variable amount of scale in the axillae, under the breasts or pannus, intergluteal cleft, and perineum), sebopsoriasis (red, thin plaques in the scalp, eyebrows, nasolabial folds, central chest, and pubic area), and guttate psoriasis (0.5- to 2-cm red plaques that erupt suddenly on the trunk often after a group A streptococcal infection). Psoriasis can also involve the nails presenting as pit-like indentations and “oil spots” often involving multiple nails. Inverse psoriasis can be difficult to diagnosis because it often lacks the classic silvery scale. It also resembles other common dermatologic conditions such as tinea, intertrigo, and allergic contact dermatitis.
Allergic contact dermatitis, while possible in these locations, would be less likely without history of exposure to an allergen. Allergic contact dermatitis does not explain the patient's erythematous plaques with scale on the scalp.
Candida is frequently found in the flexures of patients with obesity, but typically presents with a bright red plaque with satellite papules and pustules. Candida would also respond to topical antifungal treatment.
Seborrheic dermatitis can be found in the scalp, face, chest, and groin. It is more prevalent in those with HIV/AIDS or neurologic diseases such as Parkinson disease. This rash usually has a greasy, sometimes yellow scale and improves with antifungal medications.
Tinea cruris is also commonly found in the inguinal folds. It typically presents as an annular plaque with an active, scaly border. The lack of scale and lack of response to antifungal therapy makes tinea cruris an unlikely diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Omland SH, Gniadecki R. Psoriasis inversa: A separate identity or a variant of psoriasis vulgaris? Clin Dermatol. 2015 Jul-Aug;33(4):456-61. PMID: 26051061

This content was last updated in August 2018.