
### Correct Answer: A) Discontinue neomycin/polymyxin B/bacitracin ointment 

**Educational Objective:** Manage contact dermatitis in the setting of stasis dermatitis.

#### **Key Point:** Neomycin and bacitracin can cause allergic contact dermatitis that mimics a wound infection; the most appropriate initial management is to discontinue its use.

The most appropriate initial management is to discontinue application of the neomycin/polymyxin B/bacitracin ointment. This patient has contact dermatitis from the topical antibiotic in the setting of chronic stasis dermatitis with venous stasis ulcerations. Neomycin and bacitracin are usually the causative agents. Topical antibiotics applied to venous stasis ulcers commonly lead to the development of allergic contact dermatitis. This often presents with worsening erythema and weeping of the lower extremities. It is often mistaken for cellulitis.
Intravenous vancomycin is an antibiotic used for the treatment of severe skin infections. It is often combined with surgical debridement to treat hospitalized patients with complicated skin and soft tissue infection defined as deeper soft tissue infections, surgical/traumatic wound infection, major abscesses, cellulitis, and infected ulcers and burns. This patient does not have a complicated skin infection, and intravenous vancomycin is not needed.
Mild cellulitis (no focus of purulence or systemic symptoms) can be treated with oral clindamycin, penicillin, dicloxacillin, or a cephalosporin. In this patient, the cause of the worsening erythema is most likely contact dermatitis and not infection, and discontinuation of the topical antibiotic is the best management before initiation of any antimicrobial therapy.
Oral terbinafine is the treatment for fungal infections such as tinea capitis or onychomycosis. There is no reason to suspect a fungal infection in this patient.
Topical triamcinolone ointment is a glucocorticoid preparation commonly used in the treatment of stasis dermatitis and for allergic contact dermatitis; however, the best initial management in allergic contact dermatitis is removal of the offending agent. Adding a topical glucocorticoid without stopping the contact allergen is unlikely to result in clinical improvement. A topical glucocorticoid is often used as an adjunctive therapy after stopping the topical antibiotic.

**Bibliography**

Spring S1, Pratt M, Chaplin A. Contact dermatitis to topical medicaments: a retrospective chart review from the Ottawa Hospital Patch Test Clinic. Dermatitis. 2012 Sep-Oct;23(5):210-3. PMID: 23010827

This content was last updated in March 2021.