
### Correct Answer: D) Thick emollients 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hand dermatitis.

#### **Key Point:** Treatment of hand dermatitis includes topical emollients such as petrolatum to repair the skin barrier; hand washing should be minimized.

This patient has hand dermatitis likely caused by an irritant contact dermatitis from frequent water exposure, and the most appropriate management would be to minimize hand washing and to apply thick emollients such as petrolatum to repair the skin barrier. Hand dermatitis is characterized by inflamed, scaling, and sometimes fissured skin on the palmar or dorsal hand. The most common causes are over-washing, allergic or irritant contact dermatitis, atopic dermatitis, dyshidrotic eczema (pompholyx), and tinea. Repeated or extended washing with soap causes hand dermatitis by friction, removal of the protective skin barrier, and irritation from the surfactant properties of the soap. People who are required to repeatedly wash their hands (such as medical professionals) or those who wash repeatedly because of obsessive-compulsive or autism spectrum disorders often have extremely pronounced hand dermatitis. This type of irritant dermatitis will be especially marked on the dorsal hands where the stratum corneum is thinner than that of the palms. For irritant hand dermatitis due to over-washing, avoiding the irritant by washing less and moisturizing more can prevent development of a rash. Topical petrolatum jelly is an inexpensive and effective way of repairing the damaged skin barrier. A topical glucocorticoid may be necessary for a short period while the triggers are identified or if the skin is very inflamed.
Epicutaneous patch testing can be used to help determine causes of hand dermatitis due to allergic contact dermatitis. In this patient, the most likely cause is hand dermatitis from frequent hand washing, so patch testing would not be the most appropriate management. It could be considered if there was no improvement after minimizing hand washing and the application of emollients.
Oral fluconazole is a treatment for fungal infections such as candidiasis. It can be effective in cases of tinea manuum. “Two feet, one hand” tinea is a common presentation of concomitant tinea pedis and tinea manuum. In this patient, the potassium hydroxide was negative and her feet were clear, so treatment with antifungal therapy would be inappropriate.
Oral prednisone can improve acute flares of hand dermatitis but often results in relapses of chronic hand dermatitis. Because there are also significant side effects of oral prednisone, it would not be the most appropriate initial treatment for this patient.

**Bibliography**

Perry AD, Trafeli JP. Hand Dermatitis: A review of etiology, diagnosis, and treatment. J Am Board Fem Med. 2009 May-Jun;22(3): 325-30. PMID: 19429739

This content was last updated in August 2018.