
### Correct Answer: A) Begin an oral antihistamine and topical glucocorticoid 

**Educational Objective:** Treat postscabetic pruritus.

#### **Key Point:** Itching can persist for several weeks following treatment of scabies and does not constitute a treatment failure; persistent itching can be treated with antihistamines, topical glucocorticoids, and, if severe, oral glucocorticoids.

This patient has postscabetic pruritus, which follows an infestation caused by the ectoparasite Sarcoptes scabiei resulting in intense pruritus. Treatment of the patient and close contacts is required to eliminate the original infestation. Topical application of permethrin 5% cream is a first-line therapy. The cream is applied overnight to the entire body surface from neck to toes, including genitals and under fingernails. The lotion is removed by showering or bathing 8 to 14 hours following application. Repeat treatment in 7 to 10 days is usually recommended. Clothing, linens, and anything that has had contact with skin within the preceding 1 to 2 weeks must be thoroughly washed. Itching can persist for several weeks following treatment, and this alone does not constitute a treatment failure; however, treatment failure or reinfestation should be considered if new lesions continue to develop. The persistence of pruritus in the absence of reinfection or treatment failure, termed “postscabetic pruritus” can be treated with antihistamines, topical glucocorticoids, and, if severe, oral glucocorticoids can be used.
Two doses of oral ivermectin separated by 7 to 10 days appears to be as effective as permethrin but is contraindicated in pregnant and breastfeeding women. Safety in children has not been established. Ivermectin is often reserved for patients that are intolerant of other therapies, for treatment failures, and when topical application of permethrin is impractical such as outbreaks in nursing homes. Crusted scabies, a complication usually seen in patients with HIV or other immunodeficiencies, should be treated with both 5% permethrin and oral ivermectin.
Lindane 1% lotion has been associated with neurotoxicity and is typically reserved as third-line therapy in patients who cannot intolerant of other therapies or for treatment failures.

**Bibliography**

Rosamilia LL. Scabies. Semin Cutan Med Surg. 2014;33:106-9. PMID: 25577847

This content was last updated in August 2018.