
### Correct Answer: C) Ocular rosacea 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose ocular rosacea.

#### **Key Point:** Ocular rosacea is characterized by burning, itching, dryness, or a foreign body sensation; blepharitis, chalazia, and chronic eye infections can develop.

The most likely diagnosis is ocular rosacea. This patient presents with the facial erythema, telangiectasias, and papulopustules that are characteristic of rosacea. Rosacea is a common chronic condition of the facial skin characterized by pink papules, pustules, erythema, and telangiectasias. It is typically found in a bilaterally symmetric distribution on the convexities of the face, namely the forehead, cheeks, nose, and chin. Both acne and rosacea have inflammatory papules and pustules, but comedones are not seen in rosacea. Ocular rosacea is seen in more than 50% of patients with cutaneous rosacea. Symptoms are burning or a foreign body sensation in the eye. Blepharitis, chalazia, and chronic eye infections can develop. This patient has anterior blepharitis, which is characterized by anterior lid margin edema and hyperemia and accumulated squamous debris around the lash bases. Eyelid thickening and loss of eyelashes can be seen in chronic cases. An ophthalmology consultation is recommended, and treatments include topical ophthalmic cyclosporine, topical erythromycin, or systemic tetracyclines.
Anterior scleritis is inflammation of the superficial sclera and deep vessels of the episclera. It is often associated with systemic inflammatory disorders. Patients may present with severe ocular pain, photophobia, tearing, and vision changes. On examination, the sclera may have a blue or violet coloration and be tender to palpation.
Episcleritis is an abrupt localized inflammation of the superficial vessels of the episclera. The cause is often unclear, but occasional association with rheumatic diseases is noted. Patients with episcleritis frequently present without pain or decreased visual acuity. On examination, the inflammation appears more localized than with conjunctivitis, which is typically diffuse.
Viral conjunctivitis, typically caused by an adenovirus, is often acute, unilateral, and associated with antecedent upper respiratory tract infection and exposure to infected persons. Symptoms are itching, foreign body sensation, and crusting of the eyelids following sleep. Viral conjunctivitis typically resolves in 3 to 7 days. Viral conjunctivitis does not typically cause blepharitis.
Anterior episcleritis, scleritis, or viral conjunctivitis is not associated with rosacea.

**Bibliography**

Webster G, Schaller M. Ocular rosacea: a dermatologic perspective. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2013 Dec;69(6 Suppl 1):S42-3. PMID: 24229636

This content was last updated in August 2018.