
### Correct Answer: A) Erythema nodosum 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose erythema nodosum.

#### **Key Point:** Erythema nodosum, a form of panniculitis, is often triggered by hormones, including oral contraceptives, hormone replacement therapy, and pregnancy, as well as certain infections and other inflammatory diseases.

This patient has erythema nodosum, a form of panniculitis that affects women more frequently than men. Patients present with tender pink-to-red nodules on their lower extremities, most frequently the anterior lower legs. Erythema nodosum has been associated with many different medical conditions, medications, and hormones, including pregnancy, oral contraceptive pills, and hormone replacement therapy. All women of childbearing age who present with erythema nodosum should be evaluated for pregnancy. Those taking oral contraceptive pills should discontinue use.
Other associations have been reported in persons with erythema nodosum, including tubercular, streptococcal, HIV, fungal infections (coccidioidomycosis), sarcoidosis, and inflammatory bowel disease. A thorough history, physical examination, and targeted testing should be done.
Most cases of erythema nodosum are self-limited and will resolve within 6 to 9 months. Patients benefit from compression stockings, NSAIDs, rest, and elevation. A saturated solution of potassium iodide has been used successfully, as has prednisone, dapsone, and colchicine.
Granuloma annulare is a chronic dermatosis of unknown cause consisting of erythematous annular nonscaling plaques usually on the dorsal hands, feet, elbows, and knees. Generalized granuloma annulare is associated with diabetes mellitus. Usually asymptomatic, this dermatosis will resolve spontaneously after several months to years.
Lipodermatosclerosis is a fibrosing panniculitis of the subcutaneous tissue associated with chronic venous insufficiency. Characteristic findings include a woody induration of the subcutaneous tissues in association with findings of chronic venous stasis including varicosities, edema, ulcerations, and brown discoloration of the skin.
Necrobiosis lipoidica presents as atrophic, orange-colored patches often associated with visible vasculature from skin thinning; the lesions may ulcerate. Necrobiosis lipoidica may develop in patients with diabetes mellitus, and when present may be a sign of end-organ damage, as such patients are more likely to have retinopathy or nephropathy.
Pyoderma gangrenosum is an uncommon inflammatory process that typically occurs on the pretibial aspects of the lower legs and is often associated with an underlying systemic disease, such as inflammatory bowel disease. The ulcers are very deep and painful, with a dusky or violet-colored undermined border.

**Bibliography**

Acosta KA, Haver MC, Kelly B. Etiology and therapeutic management of erythema nodosum during pregnancy: an update. Am J Clin Dermatol. 2013;14:215-22. PMID: 23625180 doi:10.1007/s40257-013-0024-x

This content was last updated in August 2018.