
### Correct Answer: D) Surgical revascularization 

**Educational Objective:** Treat arterial insufficiency ulcers.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with arterial insufficiency ulcers, surgical revascularization to improve the lower extremity circulation is often necessary to facilitate wound healing.

This patient has an arterial insufficiency ulcer characterized by a well-demarcated painful ulcer with a dry wound bed; surgical revascularization will improve lower extremity circulation and facilitate wound healing. Arterial ulcers are most commonly found on the tips of and between the digits, but they can also form at sites of increased pressure, such as the lateral malleolus and metatarsal heads, or at sites of previous trauma. Arterial ulcers tend to be painful; discomfort may increase with elevation of the legs, compression, or any other maneuver that further limits circulation. Unlike venous stasis ulcers, which often have somewhat irregular borders and a significant amount of surrounding post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation, arterial insufficiency ulcers have a “punched out” appearance with surrounding erythema. The extremities as a whole often appear pale, and the skin is thin, taut, and shiny, and lacks hair. Pedal pulses are often difficult to appreciate; the toes are cold, and capillary refill is poor. If arterial insufficiency is suspected, diagnosis can be confirmed by measuring the ankle-brachial index (ABI). An ABI less than 0.9 is indicative of peripheral artery disease. Basic care of arterial ulcers includes debridement of necrotic tissue and proper dressings, but the most beneficial treatment is restoration of adequate circulation to the extremity. Surgical revascularization, percutaneous angioplasty, or stent placement are all options to restore blood flow to the affected area.
Compression stockings are a preferred treatment for venous stasis ulcerations. They should not be applied to a patient with arterial insufficiency ulcerations because of the risk of further ischemia.
Oral cilostazol is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor with antiplatelet activity and vasodilatory properties. When combined with a structured exercise program, cilostazol can improve maximum and pain-free treadmill-walking distance and quality-of-life measures in patients with peripheral artery disease. There is limited evidence of its benefit in arterial insufficiency ulcers.
Skin grafting is a procedure often used for the treatment of recalcitrant venous ulcers that fail to respond to compression and usual wound care. Revascularization, not skin grafting, is the primary treatment of arterial ulcers.

**Bibliography**

Kirsner RS, Vivas AC. Lower-extremity ulcers: diagnosis and management. Br J Dermatol. 2015 Aug;173(2):379-90. PMID: 26257052

This content was last updated in August 2018.