
### Correct Answer: D) Herpes zoster 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose herpes zoster.

#### **Key Point:** Herpes zoster (shingles), recrudescent varicella zoster virus, typically presents as a painful, vesicular eruption confined to a single dermatome and is most commonly seen in immunocompromised or elderly patients.

Varicella zoster virus (VZV) is a DNA virus that causes two forms of cutaneous disease. This patient has symptoms of herpes zoster (shingles), recrudescent VZV, which typically presents as a painful, vesicular eruption confined to a single dermatome and is most commonly seen in immunocompromised or elderly patients. The clinical presentation of herpes zoster is characteristic. Prodromal symptoms, such as burning, stinging, or tingling, often occur in a localized region, followed by an eruption of grouped vesicles or pustules on an erythematous base. The outbreak is unilateral and does not cross the body's midline. The most common dermatomes affected are in the thoracic region. Diagnosis is based on clinical presentation but can be confirmed with a Tzanck preparation and/or viral direct fluorescent antibody or polymerase chain reaction testing. Oral antiviral agents (acyclovir, valacyclovir, or famciclovir) are typically used to treat herpes zoster infection and should be started within the first 72 hours of symptom onset for optimal response.
Primary infection with VZV causes chickenpox (varicella), a common disease in childhood. It is transmitted by aerosolized droplets; after a 2-week incubation period, it presents as pruritic papules and vesicles with an umbilicated center that appear in crops and heal with crusting. The virus becomes latent within dorsal root ganglia and can reactivate (10% to 20% risk), causing herpes zoster. A vaccine for primary VZV infection was approved for use in the United States in 1995.
Eczema herpeticum is a disseminated viral infection most often caused by primary infection of HSV and characteristically seen in patients with atopic dermatitis. It presents with disseminated punched-out erosions with crust, with a predilection for the face.
Cutaneous herpes simplex virus (HSV) infections have two common forms: herpes labialis (typically HSV1) or “cold sores/fever blisters” and genital herpes (typically HSV2). Herpes infection presents as vesicles on an erythematous base. Following primary infection, the virus lies dormant and can recur at the original site of infection. A prodrome of pain or burning often precedes recurrences.

**Bibliography**

Schmader K. Herpes Zoster. Clin Geriatr Med. 2016;32:539-53. PMID: 27394022 doi:10.1016/j.cger.2016.02.011

This content was last updated in August 2018.