
### Correct Answer: E) Porphyria cutanea tarda 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose porphyria cutanea tarda.

#### **Key Point:** Porphyria cutanea tarda presents with skin fragility and small, transient, easily ruptured vesicles in sun-exposed areas, mainly on the hands; these eventually rupture, forming erosions, dyspigmentation, and scarring.

This patient has porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT). Skin findings seen early in the disease include fragile skin with vesicles and bulla associated with milia (tiny proteinaceous cysts) formation on sun-exposed skin, particularly on the dorsal hands. PCT is caused by an accumulation of photosensitive porphyrins within the bloodstream and tissue. These photosensitizers enter the skin and upon exposure to ultraviolet A light in the 400- to 410-nm range cause damage to the skin. Later in the course of the disease, patients may develop hypo- or hyperpigmentation and hypertrichosis of the face. In some patients, scarring may result in thickening and calcification of the skin. Persons diagnosed with PCT should be evaluated for underlying liver disease, especially hepatitis C and hemochromatosis. Therapy is usually focused on avoiding sun exposure and decreasing the iron overload with phlebotomy, as well as treating the underlying cause of liver disease. Susceptibility factors that can exacerbate PCT to be avoided include alcohol use, smoking, and estrogens. The diagnosis can be made by finding elevated levels of porphyrins in the urine. A 24-hour urine evaluation will show elevated levels of uroporphyrin and coproporphyrin.
Bullous pemphigoid is the most frequent cause of autoimmune blistering disease. Patients will have pruritic urticarial red plaques that eventually develop large bullae. These blisters are subepidermal in nature, and milia may occasionally be seen. The blisters occur most frequently on the trunk and can be quite large and tense.
Bullous tinea is typically unilateral and associated with an annular scaly patch or patches. A potassium hydroxide examination will reveal fungal hyphae. The blisters are intraepidermal in nature, and milia will not be seen.
Dermatitis herpetiformis presents with tiny fragile vesicles or small erosions on the elbows, knees, or scalp. Itching is pronounced, and the condition is worsened by consumption of food containing gluten. Involvement of the dorsal hands would be an unusual clinical finding.
Persons with pemphigus vulgaris develop fragile vesicles and bulla without milia formation. The oral mucosa is frequently involved and is often the site of first involvement.
Patients with bullous pemphigoid, pemphigus vulgaris, and dermatitis herpetiformis do not develop hypertrichosis.

**Bibliography**

Balwani M, Desnick RJ. The porphyrias: advances in diagnosis and treatment. Blood. 2012;120:4496-504. PMID: 22791288 doi:10.1182/blood-2012-05-423186

This content was last updated in August 2018.