
### Correct Answer: C) Prednisone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat pyoderma gangrenosum.

#### **Key Point:** Prednisone is the preferred initial treatment for pyoderma gangrenosum.

This patient has pyoderma gangrenosum, and a glucocorticoid, such as prednisone, is the preferred initial treatment. Typically required in doses of 1 mg/kg, prednisone is often effective in controlling pyoderma. To protect from long-term side effects of prolonged glucocorticoid use, steroid-sparing agents, immunosuppressants, intralesional glucocorticoids, or high-potency topical glucocorticoids are frequently used. Pyoderma gangrenosum is commonly associated with inflammatory bowel disease, hematologic abnormalities, and malignancies. The disease predominately affects the lower legs, but can be seen at any location. The beginning sign is often a tender pustule or red papule or nodule. This will quickly erode into an ulcer. Classic cases will have a rolled purplish border and undermined edges. As the ulcer resolves, it tends to heal with atrophic scarring in a cross-like or cribriform pattern. The ulcer is extremely painful. The diagnosis is one of exclusion, and other causes of ulceration need to be ruled out. Skin biopsies are not diagnostic. Surface cultures will grow myriad bacteria, which are most likely colonizing the ulcer and not causative.
Compression can be used in patients with extensive edema, but it is not a mainstay of therapy. Compression is often not tolerated because of pain. Good wound care with nonadherent dressings is important. Avoiding tape on the skin is necessary to prevent pathergy, the occurrence of lesions at sites of trauma, from the skin tape.
Dapsone has been used with some success, likely because of its anti-neutrophil effects, but it is not used as first-line treatment of pyoderma.
Pyoderma gangrenosum often occurs in the site of trauma (pathergy). For this reason, surgical debridement should be avoided unless a life-threatening infection is suspected. One exception is peristomal pyoderma gangrenosum. Surgical reanastomosis and closure of the ostomy site often results in healing of peristomal pyoderma. Relocating the stoma to another skin site will often result in resolution of the original peristomal ulcer; however, pyoderma will likely develop at the new ostomy site.
Potent topical glucocorticoids have been used for small lesions, but topical hydrocortisone is of no benefit as it is a low-potency glucocorticoid. Patients with underlying disease (inflammatory bowel disease, hematologic malignancy, rheumatoid disease) often improve with therapy that is directed at the underlying disease. Active pyoderma in persons with underlying disease often means that the underlying disease is not adequately controlled.

**Bibliography**

Herberger K, Dissemond J, Hohaus K, Schaller J, Anastasiadou Z, Augustin M. Treatment of pyoderma gangrenosum: retrospective multicentre analysis of 121 patients [Letter]. Br J Dermatol. 2016;175:1070-1072. PMID: 27060666 doi:10.1111/bjd.14619

This content was last updated in August 2018.