
### Correct Answer: D) 21-day taper of oral prednisone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat severe allergic contact dermatitis.

#### **Key Point:** Severe allergic contact eruptions such as those from poison ivy may necessitate a 2- to 3-week taper of systemic glucocorticoids; because of the risk of rebound dermatitis, shorter courses are not recommended.

This patient has severe contact dermatitis from poison ivy (Toxicodendron genus), and the most appropriate treatment is a 21-day taper of oral prednisone. There are two types of contact dermatitis: allergic and irritant. Allergic contact dermatitis is a type IV delayed hypersensitivity reaction. With repeated exposure, a pruritic eczematous dermatitis develops on the exposed area. In exuberant cases, the localized inflammation can lead to a secondary “id” reaction, a generalized acute cutaneous reaction in which pinpoint flesh-colored to red papules develop diffusely on the body. Irritant contact dermatitis is caused by a direct toxic effect on the epidermis from exposure to a chemical such as a cleaning agent, other caustic substances, or repeated wetting and drying, and it is not mediated by the immune system. Urushiol is an allergen in the Toxicodendron genus of plants. Examples of these plants include poison ivy, poison oak, and poison sumac. Typically this rash presents with geometric lines or splatters of red papules and vesicles, with surrounding erythema, especially on exposed areas. In severe cases involving multiple body areas or the face, systemic glucocorticoids are the best treatment. Two- to 3-week courses of glucocorticoids are preferred over shorter courses in order to decrease the risk of rebound dermatitis.
A 7-day course of oral acyclovir is the treatment for herpes zoster. Herpes zoster typically presents with painful clusters of vesicles in a dermatomal distribution. The widespread clinical presentation of a pruritic vesicular rash is not consistent with herpes zoster.
Oral doxycycline is an antibiotic often combined with incision and drainage for the empiric treatment of moderate purulent skin infections such as furuncles, carbuncles, and abscesses. Although allergic contact dermatitis can become secondarily infected with Staphylococcus aureus or streptococcus, there is no evidence of infection in this patient (for example, extensive and spreading erythema, warmth, drainage, and increasing pain).
A 6-day taper of methylprednisolone would increase the risk of rebound dermatitis after completion of the short taper. A longer 14- to 21-day taper of systemic glucocorticoids is preferred.
Hydrocortisone 1% is a low-potency topical glucocorticoid and would be ineffective for treating this severe case of contact dermatitis. High-potency glucocorticoids such as clobetasol propionate 0.05% or betamethasone dipropionate 0.05% can be helpful in early and localized disease.

**Bibliography**

Usatine RP1, Riojas M. Diagnosis and management of contact dermatitis. Am Fam Physician. 2010 Aug 1;82(3):249-55. PMID: 20672788

This content was last updated in August 2018.