
### Correct Answer: A) Imidazole cream 

**Educational Objective:** Treat tinea pedis.

#### **Key Point:** Treatment of tinea of non–hair-bearing skin includes topical antifungal agents such as imidazole, miconazole, clotrimazole, ketoconazole, ciclopirox, or terbinafine; topical nystatin is not effective, and oral ketoconazole should be avoided.

Dermatophytosis or tinea of non–hair-bearing skin with limited involvement can be treated with imidazole cream applied once to twice daily for 2 to 4 weeks. Application should extend a few centimeters beyond the advancing border. For tinea pedis, the web spaces between the toes should be treated. Other topical agents including miconazole, clotrimazole, ketoconazole, ciclopirox, or terbinafine can also be used. Over-the-counter preparations are cost-effective options with good efficacy. Most infections will resolve but may recur and require retreatment. In immunosuppressed patients, recognition and treatment of superficial skin fungal infections is essential, as fungal infections can lead to epidermal breakdown and create a portal of entry for invasive pathogens. Tinea pedis is also a potential cause of recurrent bacterial cellulitis.
Dermatophytes do not respond to topical nystatin, which is used to treat infections caused by Candida species.
Oral antifungal therapy with terbinafine or an azole antifungal agent such as itraconazole or fluconazole may be necessary for treating tinea capitis, onychomycosis, Majocchi granuloma (a granulomatous response to dermatophyte infection in the dermis and hair follicles), or extensive infection. Oral ketoconazole no longer has an indication for superficial fungal infection because of severe and sometimes fatal idiosyncratic liver toxicity. In addition, ketoconazole is a potent inhibitor of CYP3A4 resulting in significant drug interactions. Prolonged use of ketoconazole also may result in adrenal gland suppression.
Combination therapy with potent topical glucocorticoids, such as betamethasone, and antifungal creams, such as clotrimazole, should be avoided because of an increased risk of treatment failures, development of skin atrophy with prolonged use, and increased cost without increased efficacy.

**Bibliography**

Jewell JR, Myers SA. Topical Therapy Primer for Nondermatologists. Med Clin North Am. 2015;99:1167-82. PMID: 26476246 doi:10.1016/j.mcna.2015.06.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.