
### Correct Answer: A) Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS).

#### **Key Point:** Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) is a systemic drug hypersensitivity reaction that presents with rash, prominent facial edema, lymphadenopathy, and fever 2 to 6 weeks after the initiation of the causative drug.

This patient's symptoms are characteristic of drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) or drug hypersensitivity syndrome. DRESS is a severe, life-threatening, idiosyncratic medication reaction. The most common culprit medications include sulfonamide antibiotics, allopurinol, and anticonvulsants, but many more have been implicated. DRESS is unique in that the onset is usually 2 to 6 weeks after exposure to a causative medication. Because of this delayed onset, DRESS is often underrecognized or misdiagnosed. The eruption is usually an exuberant morbilliform eruption with prominent facial edema, lymphadenopathy, fever, and, in severe cases, hypotension. Typical laboratory findings include leukocytosis with eosinophilia and increased serum alanine aminotransferase levels. Cessation of the causative agent and systemic glucocorticoids with a long taper are the best treatment. DRESS reactions with carbamazepine may cross-react with phenytoin and phenobarbital, but not levetiracetam or valproic acid.
The term retiform purpura describes the angulated or netlike configuration that reflects the underlying vascular structure in the skin. Various conditions can cause retiform purpura, many of which disrupt arterial blood flow such as thrombosis and embolization.
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) are both severe drug reactions, but these reactions happen closer to the start date of the offending agent than DRESS syndrome. SJS/TEN lack the facial edema of DRESS syndrome, and DRESS syndrome lacks the epidermal necrosis of SJS/TEN. DRESS can cause mucositis in the minority of cases. Both SJS/TEN and DRESS can result in liver or kidney function abnormalities, but eosinophilia is strongly indicative of DRESS.

**Bibliography**

Darlenski R, Kazandjieva J, Tsankov N. Systemic drug reactions with skin involvement: Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and DRESS. Clin Dermatol. 2015;33:538-41. PMID: 26321400 doi:10.1016/j.clindermatol.2015.05.005

This content was last updated in August 2018.