
### Correct Answer: B) Discontinue hydrochlorothiazide 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate the cause of pruritus in the absence of skin findings.

#### **Key Point:** Pruritus in the absence of skin findings should be evaluated for underlying systemic causes; many medications such as hydrochlorothiazide, calcium channel blockers, opiates, or NSAIDs can also cause generalized pruritus without skin findings.

The most appropriate initial management for this patient is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide. Pruritus in the absence of skin findings should be evaluated for underlying systemic causes. These include kidney disease, hyperthyroidism, hepatobiliary diseases, HIV infection, lymphoproliferative disorders (lymphoma), and myeloproliferative disorders (polycythemia vera). Drug-induced pruritus should also be considered. This patient has a normal complete blood count, liver chemistry tests, thyroid-stimulating hormone levels, serum creatinine, and sedimentation rate, making many of the systemic diseases unlikely. However, this patient is taking hydrochlorothiazide for hypertension. Hydrochlorothiazide, calcium channel blockers, opiates, and NSAIDs are all medications that can cause generalized pruritus without skin findings. In patients taking multiple medications, it can be challenging to determine which drug(s) may be contributing to pruritus, as patients may develop medication-induced itch even after months or years on a drug. The most appropriate management in this patient would be to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide and monitor for 2 to 4 weeks to detect improvement of his pruritus.
Hodgkin lymphoma is the malignant disease most strongly associated with pruritus. CT of the chest and abdomen could be ordered to evaluate for Hodgkin disease, but he has no other symptoms to suggest lymphoma, such as fever or weight loss, and no lymphadenopathy on physical examination. The high cost of CT imaging and radiation exposure would make this an inappropriate initial management option for this patient. A plain chest radiograph would be a better initial imaging test if Hodgkin lymphoma were suspected.
Topical permethrin is prescribed for the treatment of scabies. Although scabies should be considered in any patient with pruritus, there are no skin findings to suggest scabies in this patient, such as erythematous papulonodules and scaling patches, especially in web spaces, wrists, axillae, nipples, waistline, and genitals.
Topical triamcinolone can be used for pruritus associated with inflammatory skin conditions, such as atopic dermatitis or psoriasis. This patient has no evidence of atopic dermatitis or psoriasis, such as inflamed, dry, red, itchy skin, or thick silvery scale on erythematous patches.

**Bibliography**

Silverberg JI. Practice gaps in pruritus. Dermatol Clin. 2016 Jul;34(3):257-601. PMID: 27363881

This content was last updated in August 2018.