
### Correct Answer: A) Electrodesiccation and curettage 

**Educational Objective:** Treat low-risk basal cell carcinoma.

#### **Key Point:** Noninfiltrating basal cell carcinomas on low-risk areas such as the trunk and extremities are best treated with electrodesiccation and curettage.

Electrodesiccation and curettage (ED&C) is a widely used treatment for noninfiltrating basal cell carcinomas on low-risk anatomic sites (trunk and extremities). Treatment of basal cell carcinomas depends on many factors, including the histologic subtype, location, size, cosmetic considerations, and patient's age and comorbidities. Nodular and superficial basal cell carcinomas on the trunk and extremities are often treated with ED&C. Infiltrative and micronodular basal cell carcinomas, especially on the face, are not appropriate for ED&C. For this patient, his lesion is a small, histologically low-risk subtype of basal cell carcinoma on the back that can be treated with ED&C.
Mohs micrographic surgery is a specialized surgical procedure that provides margin control while sparing as much normal skin as possible. Indications for Mohs micrographic surgery include tumors with aggressive histologic subtypes (micronodular, morpheaform, infiltrative, perineural involvement); high-risk and cosmetically sensitive locations (face, genitals); large tumors or tumors arising in scar tissue; and tumors in patients who are immunosuppressed. This patient's lesion would not be an appropriate use of Mohs surgery.
Radiation therapy for skin cancers is appropriate for patients who refuse surgery or are not optimal surgical candidates. The patient will be able to tolerate an ED&C without any difficulty.
Vismodegib is an oral medication that inhibits the hedgehog signaling pathway; this signaling pathway is aberrant in most basal cell carcinomas. It is reserved for locally advanced or metastatic basal cell carcinomas.

**Bibliography**

Connolly SM, Baker DR, Coldiron BM, Fazio MJ, Storrs PA, Vidimos AT, et al; American Academy of Dermatology. AAD/ACMS/ASDSA/ASMS 2012 appropriate use criteria for Mohs micrographic surgery: a report of the American Academy of Dermatology, American College of Mohs Surgery, American Society for Dermatologic Surgery Association, and the American Society for Mohs Surgery. Dermatol Surg. 2012;38:1582-603. PMID: 22958088 doi:10.1111/j.1524-4725.2012.02574.x

This content was last updated in August 2018.