
### Correct Answer: A) Alopecia areata 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose alopecia areata.

#### **Key Point:** Alopecia areata is a chronic autoimmune disease that results in smooth, hairless patches of skin, most commonly appearing on the scalp.

This patient has alopecia areata, a patchy, nonscarring alopecia. It most often occurs in early adulthood and is associated with autoimmune disorders such as type 1 diabetes mellitus, thyroid disease, and vitiligo. Alopecia areata tends to have an acute onset. It appears as round or oval patches of hair loss with the periphery studded with exclamation point hairs. These are hair shafts that narrow as they approach the skin surface. The scalp is most often affected with severe 2- to 3-cm patches of hair loss. The clinical course of alopecia areata is variable and unpredictable with spontaneous recovery for most patients with localized disease. Treatment is dependent on the area involved. In localized disease, high-potency topical glucocorticoids are first-line treatment.
Discoid lupus erythematosus is a form of patchy scarring alopecia. It is characterized by oval plaques that may have a pink, active rim with a white atrophic center. A biopsy of the scalp would confirm the diagnosis. Local treatment involves high-potency topical or intralesional glucocorticoids.
Secondary syphilis can cause patchy nonscarring alopecia (“moth eaten”). Alopecia is seen in approximately 7% of patients with secondary syphilis. There are other syphilids in secondary syphilis such as copper-colored macules and papules on the trunk and extremities, including palms and soles. Serology would aid in diagnosis. Treatment involves intramuscular benzathine penicillin.
Tinea capitis is a superficial infection of the scalp, seen mostly in school-aged children. It can appear as a patchy, nonscarring alopecia with broken hair shafts. Occipital lymph nodes can often be palpated. As there is often scale, it can look like seborrheic dermatitis. A potassium hydroxide microscopic examination and culture of broken hairs can confirm the diagnosis. Treatment involves systemic antifungal agents.
Trichotillomania, alopecia from compulsive twisting and pulling, is in the differential diagnosis for patchy nonscarring alopecia; however, on physical examination, the patches are often more irregular and ill-marginated with broken hairs. Patients with trichotillomania often have a history of psychiatric conditions and anxiety.

**Bibliography**

Mubki T, Rudnicka L, Olszewska M, Shapiro J. Evaluation and diagnosis of the hair loss patient: part I. History and clinical examination. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2014;71:415.e1-415.e15. PMID: 25128118 doi:10.1016/j.jaad.2014.04.070

This content was last updated in August 2018.