
### Correct Answer: A) Amyloidosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose amyloidosis.

#### **Key Point:** Skin manifestations of amyloid light chain amyloidosis are present in 30% to 40% of patients and include generalized waxy appearance, ecchymoses with minor pressure (“pinch purpura”), ecchymoses around the eyes (“raccoon eyes”), yellow waxy papules and plaques especially in a periorbital location, dystrophic nails, and macroglossia.

This patient likely has amyloidosis. Amyloid light chain amyloidosis is the most common type of amyloidosis; it is a plasma cell dyscrasia-related disease characterized by end-organ damage secondary to tissue deposition of monoclonal free λ or κ light-chain fibrils. Clinical symptoms and manifestations vary and are dictated by the tissue tropism of the amyloidogenic light chain. If amyloid deposits are identified on tissue biopsy, other types of amyloidosis should be excluded by typing, which can be done by κ/λ light-chain immunohistochemistry. Major clinical manifestations include proteinuria with worsening kidney function, restrictive cardiomyopathy, and hepatomegaly. Neurologic findings include a symmetric, distal sensorimotor neuropathy, carpal tunnel syndrome, and autonomic neuropathy with orthostatic hypotension. Skin manifestations are present in 30% to 40% of patients and include generalized waxy appearance, ecchymoses with minor pressure (“pinch purpura”), ecchymoses around the eyes (“raccoon eyes”), yellow waxy papules and plaques especially in a periorbital location, dystrophic nails, and macroglossia. Bleeding caused by acquired factor X deficiency may also occur.
A pathognomonic cutaneous feature of dermatomyositis is a heliotrope rash, a distinctive purple or lilac erythema of the eyelids that may be accompanied by edema. It is not yellow or papular as seen in this patient.
Xanthelasma is a type of plane xanthoma localized to the periorbital area, most commonly on the upper medial eyelid, and it is characterized by soft, nontender, nonpruritic plaques. Xanthelasma can occur without hyperlipidemia, particularly in older persons, but it is often associated with familial dyslipidemias when seen in a younger person. This patient's periorbital lesions are not consistent with xanthelasma.
Classic cutaneous sarcoidosis appears as violaceous papules around the nose including the ala, or periorbitally and around the oropharynx and nasal openings. This patient's yellow periorbital papules are not consistent with sarcoidosis.
The combination of the patient's periorbital skin findings, easy bruising and bleeding, hepatomegaly, and proteinuria cannot be explained by dermatomyositis, hyperlipidemia, or sarcoidosis.

**Bibliography**

Wechalekar AD, Gillmore JD, Hawkins PN. Systemic amyloidosis. Lancet. 2016;387:2641-54. PMID: 26719234 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(15)01274-X

This content was last updated in August 2018.