
### Correct Answer: B) Melanonychia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose melanonychia.

#### **Key Point:** Melanonychia is a longitudinal brown pigmentation of the nail plate; it can be a normal variant in persons with darker skin types, but it may also occur as a result of systemic disease, medication, infection, or an underlying melanocytic lesion.

This patient has melanonychia, a brown longitudinal pigmentation of the nail plate. It can be a normal variant in persons with darker skin types, but it may also occur as a result of systemic disease, medication, infection, or an underlying melanocytic lesion such as malignant melanoma. It is extremely difficult to clinically differentiate benign melanonychia from acral melanoma involving the nail. Certain findings may suggest a stronger likelihood of melanoma and the need for biopsy. These include: melanonychia that first appears in adulthood; involvement of a single digit (especially thumb or great toe); rapid growth; width greater than 3 to 4 mm; proximal width greater than distal width; variation in pigmentation; secondary nail changes such as splitting or dystrophy; pigmentation that extends beyond the nail fold; or personal history of melanoma. This patient has longitudinal melanonychia limited to the thumb that is changing in width. Furthermore, in this photo, there is a pigmented macule on the lateral nailfold that is called a Hutchinson sign. This is an important clinical clue for subungual melanoma. A biopsy should be performed.
Lichen planus can develop in the nails. The nail plate will become thinner or be completely destroyed, and the cuticle may attach to the nail plate (pterygium). Other findings may include longitudinal ridging, nail plate thinning, and longitudinal fissuring. Red streaking of the nail may also occur. Patients may have other cutaneous or mucosal findings of lichen planus. This patient lacks the dystrophic changes commonly associated with lichen planus.
With aging, the thickness, curvature, surface, and color of the nail plate can change. The underlying mechanisms are unknown. The nail plate may become thicker or thinner. The normal texture of the nail can become rougher and more friable, resulting in striations and splitting. The color of the nail may become paler or yellow. These changes may predispose nails to onychomycosis, pain, and subungual hemorrhage. Normal aging is not associated with the occurrence of a growing, longitudinal stripe in one nail.
Onychomycosis is a fungal infection of the nail. The most common pattern is characterized by the distal corner of the nail becoming yellow and lifted, with the development of subungual debris. Eventually this process can spread proximally and laterally to involve the entire nail plate. Onychomycosis does not result in a well-defined dark brown longitudinal stripe as seen in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Goydos JS, Shoen SL. Acral lentiginous melanoma. Cancer Treat Res. 2016;167:321-9. PMID: 26601870 doi:10.1007/978-3-319-22539-5_14

This content was last updated in August 2018.