
### Correct Answer: B) Dermatofibroma 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose dermatofibroma.

#### **Key Point:** Dermatofibromas are benign firm brown or reddish papules about the size of a pencil eraser that most commonly occur on the lower extremities; they “dimple” when lateral pressure is applied to the lesion with the thumb and first finger.

Dermatofibromas are benign, fibrohistiocytic lesions common on the extremities of young adults, in particular women, but they also occur on the trunk in both men and women. Diagnosed clinically, dermatofibromas are tan-to-brown or reddish discrete papules about the size of a pencil eraser. They “dimple” when lateral pressure is applied to the lesion with the thumb and first finger as shown.
Multiple lesions may be present in some persons. They are thought to arise from minor injury, including insect bites, shaving injuries, or folliculitis. Dermatofibromas are benign and do not require treatment.
Acrochordons or “skin tags” are skin-colored, pedunculated papules. They are most commonly seen on the neck and skin folds in older adults. They are harmless but often bothersome from a cosmetic standpoint. They may also occasionally become tender when traumatized. The presence of numerous lesions, particularly in the setting of obesity and acanthosis nigricans, is associated with insulin resistance.
Neurofibromas are asymptomatic, benign nerve sheath tumors that present as soft skin-colored papules, which show invagination of the papule with lateral pressure (“buttonhole” sign). Isolated lesions are common in the general population and are not associated with any underlying disease. The presence of numerous neurofibromas suggests a diagnosis of neurofibromatosis type 1. Additional findings that suggest this diagnosis include multiple café-au-lait macules, Lisch nodules (raised, pigmented hamartomas of the iris), and axillary freckling. Neurofibromas are benign and do not require treatment.
Pyogenic granulomas are bright red vascular lesions that arise suddenly and grow rapidly; they often appear during pregnancy or in the setting of certain medications (such as antiretroviral therapy). The name is misleading, as they are neither pyogenic nor granulomatous. They resemble cherry hemangiomas, but are often more friable and tend to bleed more easily. They are benign lesions that do not have any systemic disease associations; they are treated with biopsy or electrocautery.

**Bibliography**

Higgins JC, Maher MH, Douglas MS. Diagnosing Common Benign Skin Tumors. Am Fam Physician. 2015;92:601-7. PMID: 26447443

This content was last updated in August 2018.