
### Correct Answer: A) Fasting blood glucose 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate the cause of acanthosis nigricans.

#### **Key Point:** Acanthosis nigricans presents as skin thickening and darkening of the intertriginous areas, particularly the axillae and neck; it can be associated with insulin resistance or present as a paraneoplastic syndrome.

This patient has acanthosis nigricans (AN), and he should be screened for insulin resistance with a fasting blood glucose measurement. AN presents as velvety-to-verrucous, gray-to-brown thickening with accentuation of skin marking seen in the intertriginous folds and neck. AN is more common in persons of color. It can be benign and associated with diabetes or present as a paraneoplastic syndrome. Benign AN is characteristically seen in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and obesity; however, it can be seen in patients with other endocrine abnormalities that involve insulin resistance. Therefore, a diagnosis of AN should prompt screening for diabetes. If symptoms are extensive and of acute onset, in particular involving the palms and tongue, a screening for malignancy is indicated with a thorough review of systems and a complete physical examination.
Acanthosis nigricans is associated with endocrinopathies other than diabetes that can cause insulin resistance, including Cushing syndrome. This patient has some elements of Cushing syndrome including obesity and truncal acne, but the absence of hypertension and striae make this diagnosis less likely, and a 24-hour urine cortisol measurement is therefore not the next diagnostic test.
A thyroid-stimulating hormone and serum thyroxine measurement should be performed in patients with pretibial myxedema. Pretibial myxedema presents with firm nodules and plaques with a “‘peau d’orange” appearance on the pretibial area. Pretibial myxedema is almost always associated with the signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism. Extrathyroidal manifestations of Graves disease include Graves orbitopathy, pretibial myxedema (thyroid dermopathy), and acropachy. Acropachy is swelling of the soft tissues on the hands and feet with digital clubbing. This patient has no findings consistent with pretibial myxedema.
Erythrasma is a superficial infection with Corynebacterium minutissimum. Its growth is encouraged by a warm, moist environment, such as intertriginous areas. Erythrasma causes well-defined, pink-to-brown patches with fine scale, located in the axillae, groin, or inframammary regions. A unique feature of this infection is that it fluoresces a bright coral-red color when illuminated with a Wood lamp. The location, morphology, and color of this patient's skin findings are not consistent with erythrasma.

**Bibliography**

Murphy-Chutorian B, Han G, Cohen SR. Dermatologic manifestations of diabetes mellitus: a review. Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am. 2013;42:869-98. PMID: 24286954 doi:10.1016/j.ecl.2013.07.004

This content was last updated in August 2018.