
### Correct Answer: B) Chronic paronychia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose chronic paronychia.

#### **Key Point:** Chronic paronychia appears as a loss of cuticle with tender, edematous nail folds involving multiple fingers; wet work can cause maceration and predispose to this condition.

This patient has chronic paronychia. Chronic paronychia typically is present for 6 weeks or more and affects multiple fingers. Typical manifestations of chronic paronychia include red, swollen, and tender nail folds that lack a cuticle. It can also cause ridging and dystrophy of the nail plate. Chronic irritation from water or chemical contact is the primary cause. Candida species are often isolated. The cause of chronic paronychia is multifactorial, and an important component appears to be an eczematous process, which explains why patients with chronic paronychia respond better to topical glucocorticoid than topical antifungal therapy. The primary management includes minimizing wet work.
Acute paronychia is painful swelling of the nail fold, often following minor trauma, and most commonly is caused by Staphylococcus aureus. It typically only affects one nail. Management consists of warm compresses or soaks, incision and drainage, or topical or systemic antibiotics. This patient has chronic paronychia, which tends to be more insidious and involves multiple fingers.
Onychomycosis is a fungal infection of the nails. It affects 10% to 20% of adults and is the most common nail infection. Infection is more common in older men with comorbidities such as diabetes mellitus, peripheral vascular disease, and immunosuppression. Dermatophytes cause more than 90% of fungal nail infections. The most common pattern is distal subungual onychomycosis; the distal corner of the nail becomes yellow and lifted, and develops subungual debris. This can then spread proximally and laterally to involve the entire nail plate. Proximal subungual onychomycosis evolves similarly but begins at the proximal nail fold (the cuticle). This is a rare pattern and is associated with HIV infection or other severely immunocompromised patients. This patient's multiple nail involvement manifesting as red, tender, and swollen nail folds and absent cuticles is not compatible with onychomycosis.
Nail changes occur in about 75% of persons with psoriasis. The most common nail abnormality observed on both fingernails and toenails is subungual hyperkeratosis. Toenails more often demonstrate thickening and discoloration (whitening or yellowing), whereas pitting and ridging are more common on fingernails. Some of the nail damage can result from concomitant onychomycosis. This patient's findings are not compatible with psoriasis.

**Bibliography**

Shafritz AB, Coppage JM. Acute and chronic paronychia of the hand. J Am Acad Orthop Surg. 2014;22:165-74. PMID: 24603826 doi:10.5435/JAAOS-22-03-165

This content was last updated in August 2018.