### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Prednisolone** - Glucocorticoids like prednisolone act rapidly to reduce symptoms of severe, acute flares of rheumatoid arthritis. This patient has several symptoms consistent with rheumatoid arthritis, including symmetrical swelling of the affected joints, particularly the MCPs, morning stiffness, reduced range of motion, and rheumatoid nodules. A short course of glucocorticoids has been shown to be more effective than NSAID therapy in reducing joint tenderness and pain.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Indomethacin** - NSAIDs such as indomethacin are a first-line treatment for pain relief in patients with acute flares of rheumatoid arthritis. However, they should be avoided in a patient with a history of peptic ulcer disease, as they are associated with an increased risk of gastrointestinal bleeding. Moreover, another treatment has been shown to be more effective than NSAID therapy in reducing joint tenderness and pain.

**B - Methotrexate** - Methotrexate is the first-line disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) for patients with rheumatoid arthritis. It is effective at preventing and, in some cases, improving injury from rheumatoid arthritis and should, therefore, be initiated as soon as rheumatoid arthritis is diagnosed. However, due to its long onset of action (weeks to months), it would not provide the fast-acting symptomatic relief this patient, who has an acute flare, requires. Another drug would more effectively treat this patient's acute symptoms.

**D - Adalimumab** - The biologic adalimumab is used in patients with rheumatoid arthritis who still have moderate or severe disease activity after 3 months of DMARD therapy. It would not be used as the initial treatment in a patient with an acute flare who has not yet received DMARD therapy.

**E - Vitamin D and calcium supplements** - Vitamin D and calcium supplements are used to prevent osteoporosis in the course of long-term treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, but they would not be helpful in treating an acute flare.

**F - Colchicine** - Colchicine is used to treat gout. While gout can also manifest with pain in the joints and obesity is a risk factor for the disease, patients with acute flares of gout generally present with monoarthritis (most commonly in the big toe, knee, or thumb), while this patient has had pain and swelling in multiple joints over a period of several months.

**G - Sulfasalazine** - Sulfasalazine is a disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) used in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and is often used during pregnancy. It is not an appropriate treatment choice for a patient with an acute flare.

