### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Calcium pyrophosphate crystals** - Rhomboid calcium pyrophosphate crystals with positive birefringence in the synovial fluid are characteristic of calcium pyrophosphate deposition (CPPD) disease. Acute CPP crystal arthritis (pseudogout) manifests with recurrent episodes of monoarthritis (most commonly in the knee and wrist) that are typically self-limited. Attacks can occur spontaneously or be triggered by joint trauma, surgery, or acute illness and can last from days to weeks. Further radiographic findings of CPPD disease include chondrocalcinosis and degenerative changes (e.g., subchondral cysts) in affected joints.

Image File: 1005-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59a0074210b03.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ruptured erythrocytes** - Ruptured erythrocytes in the synovial fluid indicate hemarthrosis, which can manifest with pain, swelling, and limited range of motion in one joint. Inflammatory markers are also usually normal in patients with hemarthrosis. Etiologies include trauma (e.g., a tear in a ligament, meniscus, or joint capsule), a recent invasive joint procedure (e.g., arthroplasty), and bleeding disorders such as hemophilia; the latter can also cause recurrent hemarthrosis. However, this patient has no history of a bleeding disorder and has not reported any recent trauma or joint procedure. Moreover, chondrocalcinosis and subchondral cysts are not typically seen in hemarthrosis.

**B - Granulocytes with cytoplasmic inclusion bodies** - Granulocytes with cytoplasmic inclusion bodies (i.e., ragocytes) in the synovial fluid may indicate rheumatoid arthritis (RA). While RA typically manifests with polyarthritis of small joints, in some patients, monoarthritis may be the presenting symptom. However, ESR and rheumatoid factor are typically elevated in RA and joint involvement is usually symmetrical. While x-ray may show subchondral cysts in RA, it would not show chondrocalcinosis. Instead, joint space narrowing and erosions of cartilage and bone would be expected.

**C - Coagulase-positive gram-positive cocci** - Coagulase-positive gram-positive cocci in the synovial fluid indicate septic arthritis due to Staphylococcus aureus, which can also manifest with acute monoarthritis. While most patients with septic arthritis are febrile, older patients may not develop a fever. However, septic arthritis typically lasts for days rather than weeks and does not resolve spontaneously. Moreover, inflammatory markers (e.g., ESR and leukocyte count) are typically elevated and this patient has no risk factors for septic arthritis (e.g., trauma, prosthetic implant, recent invasive joint procedure, chronic skin infection). Finally, chondrocalcinosis and subchondral cysts are not typically seen.

Image File: 1005-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94d0adbf.jpg

**D - Monosodium urate crystals** - Needle-shaped monosodium urate crystals with negative birefringence in the synovial fluid indicate gout, which can also manifest with acute monoarthritis. However, acute gouty arthritis typically affects the first metatarsophalangeal joint (podagra) or the knee and the shoulder is typically spared. Moreover, symptoms of an acute gout attack usually peak after 12–24 hours and then regress within a few days, as opposed to the month-long episodes seen in this patient. Inflammatory markers (e.g., ESR and leukocyte count) are typically elevated in an acute gout attack. Finally, x-ray may show “punched-out” lytic bone lesions in a patient with acute gouty arthritis, but not chondrocalcinosis or subchondral cysts.

Image File: 1005-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589c32ec039a7.jpg

