### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Calcaneal stress fracture** - Calcaneal stress fractures are typically caused by repetitive, high-intensity activity (e.g., extensive walking over a long period of time, like this patient's six-week trip). These fractures commonly manifest with heel swelling and heel pain upon initiation of activity and during activity. While these symptoms may also be seen in other conditions (e.g., plantar fasciitis, heel pad syndrome, Achilles tendinopathy), tenderness to palpation and pain upon compression of the posterior sides of the heel (positive calcaneal squeeze test) are specific for calcaneal stress fractures. Diagnosis can be confirmed with MRI. Note that conventional x-rays might not show any signs of fracture immediately; a subtle sclerotic band may be visible after two to three weeks.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Achilles tendinopathy** - Achilles tendinopathy manifests with heel pain during activity and can be caused by an increase in physical exercise (e.g., extensive walking over a long period of time, like this patient's six-week trip). However, pain in Achilles tendinopathy is typically localized 2–6 cm (0.8–2.4 in) above the insertion of the Achilles tendon at the posterior calcaneus. Furthermore, tenderness and pain upon squeezing the medial and lateral sides of the posterior calcaneus are not expected findings in Achilles tendinopathy and suggest a different condition.

**B - Plantar fasciitis** - Plantar fasciitis is caused by sudden changes in training intensity and excessive exercise (e.g., extensive walking over a long period of time, like this patient's six-week trip) and manifests with heel pain that worsens after long periods of inactivity, all of which are seen in this patient. However, tenderness and pain upon squeezing the medial and lateral sides of the posterior calcaneus are not expected findings in plantar fasciitis and suggest a different condition.

**D - Tarsal tunnel syndrome** - Tarsal tunnel syndrome can manifest with heel pain that worsens with walking. However, patients with tarsal tunnel syndrome typically present with paresthesia or numbness in the area innervated by the tibial nerve (heel, sole, and first three toes), neither of which this patient has. Furthermore, tenderness and pain upon squeezing the medial and lateral sides of the posterior calcaneus are not expected findings in tarsal tunnel syndrome and suggest a different condition.

**E - Heel pad syndrome** - Heel pad syndrome can be caused by chronic overload (e.g., extensive walking over a long period of time, like this patient's six-week trip) and manifests with heel pain and tenderness, similar to what is seen here. However, tenderness and pain upon squeezing the medial and lateral sides of the posterior calcaneus are not expected findings in heel pad syndrome and suggest a different condition.

