### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Radial head subluxation** - Radial head subluxation describes the slipping of the annular ligament over the radial head. Patients classically present with the arm held in pronated and flexed position, as in this scenario. It usually occurs when adults pull on children's arms to hold them back or to swing them around. The radial head is relocated by hyperpronation or supination of the flexed forearm.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Proximal ulnar fracture** - A proximal ulnar fracture can occur alongside a radial head subluxation and is called a Monteggia fracture. This fracture is typically caused by either a fall on an outstretched arm or a direct forceful blow to the elbow. Considering the history of this patient, this fracture is unlikely. The clinical presentation would also be more severe.

Image File: 1012-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93b73a65.jpg

**B - Anterior shoulder dislocation** - An anterior shoulder dislocation causes severe shoulder pain. Unlike in this patient, it usually occurs when falling on an outstretched arm, and the arm is typically held in external rotation and slight abduction. Common complications are axillary nerve and rotator cuff injury.

Image File: 1012-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fce66c3469a2.jpg

**C - Supracondylar fracture of the humerus** - Supracondylar humerus fractures are the most common pediatric fractures. They mainly occur in the age group of 5–8 years. This fracture is unlikely to occur from pure traction on an arm. Additionally, we would expect local swelling and potentially a lesion of the median nerve with loss of wrist flexion, thumb opposition, and loss of thenar sensation.

Image File: 1012-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589c3415ea15b.jpg

**D - Olecranon fracture** - An olecranon fracture occurs through direct hits to the elbow or falls, which did not happen to this patient. Examination would show local elbow swelling and maybe dislocation of the olecranon.

