### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Observation only** - Reassurance and observation is the preferred management approach for asymptomatic ganglion cysts, because most resolve spontaneously within a year. Symptomatic cysts (e.g., due to weakness, paresthesia, pain) can be aspirated; however, 50% of ganglion cysts that are aspirated will most likely recur within a year. Surgery may be performed for patients who experience persistent or recurrent symptoms despite initial nonsurgical management, or who experience severe pain or significant limitation in daily activities.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Colchicine therapy** - Colchicine therapy is used in the initial treatment of tophaceous gout (before initiation of urate-lowering therapy), which typically manifests as painless masses at various joints. Tophaceous gout masses are hard, nonfluctuant, and typically occur in patients with signs of chronic gout (e.g., joint deformities, uric acid nephrolithiasis).

**C - Biopsy of the mass** - A biopsy is indicated to rule out malignancy (e.g., synovial sarcoma) in tissue masses that increase in size. Ultrasound of a malignant mass would show a heterogeneous hypoechoic mass rather than a well-defined and anechoic mass. Moreover, malignancy in the hand, such as synovial sarcoma, is much less common than a ganglion cyst.

**D - Intralesional triamcinolone injection** - Intralesional triamcinolone injection is the preferred treatment for epidermoid cysts, which manifest as an asymptomatic mobile mass. Epidermoid cysts are nonfluctuant, small, and hard nodules that are usually < 1 cm in size, whereas this patient has a 3 cm fluctuant mass.

**E - Incision and drainage** - Incision and drainage is the preferred treatment for an abscess, which typically manifests as a fluctuant mass. However, abscesses develop acutely, whereas this patient's lesion developed over the course of 6 months. Moreover, an abscess typically also causes pain, erythema, warmth, and/or fever.

