### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Phantom limb pain** - Phantom limb pain is a condition characterized by episodic burning, tingling, shooting, itching, and/or squeezing pain in an amputated limb. This condition typically develops within days to weeks after surgery, as seen in this patient. Other postoperative complications (e.g., infection, ischemia) must be ruled out to make a diagnosis of phantom limb pain. Treatment options include mirror therapy, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, NMDA receptor antagonists, and other adjuvant therapies (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants, anticonvulsants).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Foreign body reaction** - Foreign body reactions can manifest with extremity pain and develop as a postoperative complication. However, this patient does not have other typical manifestations of this condition, including swelling, point tenderness, wound drainage, and failure of a wound to fully close or opening of a closed wound.

**C - Reinfarction** - This patient, who has diabetes mellitus, a 30 pack-year smoking history, and a history of a previous infarction, is at increased risk for reinfarction, which can manifest with extremity pain. However, he does not have other typical manifestations of infarction, including numbness, pallor, paralysis, coolness to the touch, and poor perfusion of the stump. In addition, he is receiving thrombosis prophylaxis, which decreases the risk of reinfarction.

**D - Diabetic neuropathy** - Diabetic neuropathy is a long-term complication of diabetes mellitus that can cause burning extremity pain due to damage to nerve fibers. However, diabetic neuropathy typically develops more chronically with symmetric pain and loss of sensation in the distal lower extremities; in contrast, this patient has unilateral pain that has developed across only 3 weeks, and his sensation is intact in the left lower extremity.

**E - Osteomyelitis** - Osteomyelitis can manifest with extremity pain and develop as a postoperative complication of amputation; it is more common in patients with diabetes mellitus and patients who smoke. However, the pain associated with osteomyelitis is typically dull in quality, not hot, shooting, and tingling. Moreover, this patient does not have other typical manifestations of osteomyelitis, including fever, chills, and localized swelling; the erythema, warmth, and clean sutures on examination are appropriate postoperative findings.

