### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Accumulation of blood within the rectus sheath** - Accumulation of blood within the rectus sheath causes a rectus sheath hematoma (RSH). This condition typically results from a sudden, forceful contraction of the rectus abdominis muscle (RAM) causing a tear in an epigastric artery or in the RAM itself. RSH manifests with acute abdominal pain and a tender mass that is located within the abdominal wall and does not cross the midline. Carnett sign and Fothergill sign, both seen here, are characteristic of this condition. If the RSH is large enough, the patient may develop hypovolemia, signs that mimic peritonitis (e.g., abdominal guarding), and abdominal compartment syndrome. A contrast-enhanced abdominal CT is used to confirm the diagnosis of RSH. Management includes treating the underlying cause (e.g., treatment of severe hypertension, reversal of anticoagulation) and providing hemodynamic support as needed. Selective arterial embolization and surgery are reserved for severe cases (e.g., refractory hypovolemia, abdominal compartment syndrome).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Rupture of an ovarian cyst** - A ruptured ovarian cyst can manifest with acute abdominal pain and a tender, palpable abdominal mass in the left lower quadrant if the ruptured cyst has not collapsed completely. However, an ovarian cyst is an intraabdominal mass and would, therefore, become less prominent with maneuvers that tense the abdominal musculature. Furthermore, a ruptured ovarian cyst is more common in women of reproductive age. Patients may also present with vaginal bleeding and peritoneal signs, none of which are seen here.

**C - Incarceration of bowel contents** - Abdominal and inguinal hernias can result in the incarceration of bowel contents (incarcerated hernia). A Spigelian hernia can manifest as a mass in the left lower quadrant and a hernia can become more prominent with maneuvers that tense the abdominal wall (as a result of increased intraabdominal pressure). However, incarcerated hernias are usually not tender and most commonly manifest with an expansile cough impulse. Acute abdominal pain, tenderness of the hernia, and an absent cough impulse can occur in an obstructed or strangulated hernia but in these cases, the patient would have features of bowel obstruction (e.g., absent bowel sounds).

**D - Occlusion of a mesenteric blood vessel** - Acute occlusion of a mesenteric blood vessel, i.e., acute mesenteric ischemia (AMI), manifests with acute abdominal pain. Furthermore, atrial fibrillation, which this patient has, is an important risk factor for AMI. However, a palpable mass is not an expected finding in this condition. Abdominal examination is typically unremarkable in the early stages of AMI but as bowel infarction develops, patients develop peritoneal signs (e.g., rigidity, guarding in all quadrants, decreased bowel sounds).

**E - Acute inflammation of colonic diverticula** - Acute diverticular inflammation (diverticulitis) can manifest with acute abdominal pain and a tender, palpable abdominal mass in the left lower quadrant (due to pericolic inflammation or a diverticular abscess). Diverticulosis, which predisposes to acute diverticulitis, is also common among elderly individuals. However, a palpable mass caused by either pericolic inflammation or a diverticular abscess is intraabdominal and would, therefore, become less prominent with maneuvers that tense the abdominal musculature.

**F - Acute inflammation of the pancreas** - Acute pancreatic inflammation (pancreatitis) manifests with acute abdominal pain. However, acute pancreatitis typically causes tenderness in the epigastric region rather than the left lower quadrant. Although pancreatic abscesses or pseudocysts are complications of acute pancreatitis that can manifest as a palpable abdominal mass, these occur days to weeks after an episode of acute pancreatitis and are located in the epigastrium. Moreover, both pancreatic abscesses and pseudocysts are intraabdominal masses and would, therefore, become less prominent with maneuvers that tense the abdominal musculature.

