### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - De Quervain tenosynovitis** - De Quervain tenosynovitis is a common cause of wrist pain in adults and is more common in women, particularly in new mothers due to the repeated strain of lifting the baby. While the exact pathophysiology is unknown, it is attributed to repetitive activities involving postures that maintain the thumb in extension and abduction. Diagnosis of this tendinopathy is established by the physical exam findings of pain over the radial styloid and a positive Finkelstein test. Treatment is usually conservative and involves NSAIDs, rest, and splinting; corticosteroid injections may also be helpful.

Image File: 1020-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5769bf9d58233.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Skier's thumb** - Skier's thumb, also known as gamekeeper's thumb, is a result of injury to the ulnar-sided collateral ligament of the thumb. It is usually caused by a fall on the thumb and manifests with pain and swelling over the MCP joint of the thumb. Examination would show laxity of the thumb's MCP joint on the ulnar side (i.e., hyperabduction) and a weak pinch grip. This patient has none of these clinical features.

**B - Boutonniere deformity** - Boutonniere deformity can occur secondary to trauma or rheumatoid arthritis. It is characterized by injury to the extensor mechanism of the finger and classically presents as hyperextension of the DIP and flexion of the PIP. Boutonniere deformity of the thumb is seen as hyperextension of the interphalangeal joint. This patient has none of these clinical features.

Image File: 1020-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_591c0e00467f0.jpg

**D - Swan neck deformity** - Swan neck deformity is typically seen in individuals with rheumatoid arthritis that affects the finger joints. Examination would show hyperflexion of the DIP and hyperextension of the PIP. Swan neck deformity of the thumb is seen as hyperflexion of the interphalangeal joint and hyperextension of the MCP. This patient has none of these clinical features.

Image File: 1020-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9483accd.jpg

**E - Mallet finger** - Mallet finger is a closed extensor tendon injury typically caused by a sudden hyperflexion of the DIP (forced flexion) usually from a direct blow to the tip of the finger (e.g., baseball hitting the tip of the finger). Examination would show a loss of extension of the DIP of the affected finger, with the DIP remaining in a flexed position at rest. This patient has none of these clinical features.

Image File: 1020-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_591b0a790ede9.jpg

**F - Carpal tunnel syndrome** - Carpal tunnel syndrome is characterized by sensorimotor disturbances (i.e, paresthesia, weakness) in the area of the hand innervated by the median nerve (i.e., the thumb, index, middle, radial border of the ring finger). The paresthesia can be elicited by passively flexing the wrist (positive Phalen sign). The symptoms this patient presents with are inconsistent with a diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome.

**G - Stenosing tenosynovitis** - Stenosing tenosynovitis, also called trigger finger, usually affects patients in their 5th or 6th decade and females are more commonly affected. Although the thumb is frequently affected, the patient would typically present with painful locking of finger in a flexed position which is suddenly relieved by a snap/pop on extension. Examination would show tenderness and a palpable nodule at the base of the metacarpophalangeal joint. All these features are absent in this patient.

