### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Arm abduction** - Impaired arm abduction over 15 degrees due to weakness of the deltoid muscle is a classic finding of axillary nerve injury. The axillary nerve originates from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus and carries fibers from C5–6 through the quadrangular space to innervate the deltoid. Due to its proximity to the surgical neck of the humerus, the nerve can become injured by a proximal humerus fracture, as seen in this patient. Further symptoms of axillary nerve injury include impaired external rotation of the arm (due to paralysis of the teres minor muscle) and sensory loss over the lateral shoulder.

Image File: 1021-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e78a437111ec.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Wrist extension** - Impaired wrist extension and subsequent wrist drop due to weakness of the dorsal forearm muscles is a finding of proximal radial nerve injury. The radial nerve originates from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus and travels adjacent to the deep brachial artery in the radial groove, where it is most susceptible to injury. It is most likely to be damaged because of a mid-shaft and distal humerus fracture, whereas this patient has a fracture of the proximal humerus. Injury to the radial nerve within the radial groove typically also results in sensory deficits over the posterior forearm and dorsal aspect of the thumb, second and third digit, and lateral fourth digit.

Image File: 1021-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b6c413dcdc48.jpg

**B - Elbow flexion** - Impaired elbow flexion due to weakness of the brachialis and coracobrachialis muscles is a sign of musculocutaneous nerve injury. This nerve arises from the lateral cord of the brachial plexus and travels downwards between the biceps brachii and the brachialis muscles. Because it is largely protected by the biceps, injury due to mid-shaft humerus fractures is rare. This patient's x-ray, however, shows a fracture of the proximal humerus. Excessive lateral flexion of the neck (e.g., trauma, football injuries) can lead to Erb palsy with injury to the musculocutaneous nerve. Further symptoms of musculocutaneous nerve injury include impaired forearm supination and sensory deficits over the lateral forearm.

Image File: 1021-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5c9a4543f056f.jpg

**D - Thumb adduction** - Impaired thumb adduction due to weakness of the adductor pollicis muscle is a sign of proximal ulnar nerve injury (Froment sign). The ulnar nerve originates from the medial cord of the brachial plexus and runs along the posteromedial aspect of the humerus until passing through the cubital tunnel, where it is most superficial and susceptible to injury. It is most likely to be damaged due to a distal humerus fracture at the medial epicondyle, whereas this patient has a fracture of the proximal humerus. Further symptoms of proximal ulnar nerve injury include an ulnar claw and sensory deficits over the fourth and fifth digit.

Image File: 1021-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cc836d971cd3.jpg

**E - Wrist flexion** - Impaired wrist flexion due to weakness of the ventral forearm muscles is a sign of proximal median nerve injury. The median nerve originates from the lateral and medial cord of the brachial plexus and crosses the elbow anteriorly with the brachial artery, where the nerve is most at risk for injury. It is most likely to be damaged due to a supracondylar humerus fracture, whereas this patient has a fracture of the proximal humerus. Further symptoms of proximal median nerve injury include the “hand of benediction” and sensory deficits over the palmar aspect of the first three digits and the radial side of the fourth digit.

Image File: 1021-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60c05ec607ece.jpg

