### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Iliotibial band syndrome** - Iliotibial band syndrome (ITBS) manifests with knee pain over the lateral femoral epicondyle and a positive Noble test. ITBS is an overuse injury that is mainly seen in runners, cyclists, and military personnel. The pain in ITBS is initially sharp or burning, poorly localized, and only present during exercise, but can develop into a deep, dull ache that persists even during rest. ITBS is mainly a clinical diagnosis; treatment includes rest, ice, and NSAIDs during the acute phase, followed by muscle strengthening (e.g., physiotherapy, supervised exercise program) and flexibility exercises (e.g., stretching, use of foam rollers).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Anterior cruciate ligament injury** - An anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury may manifest with knee pain and typically occurs during an athletic activity. However, patients with ACL injuries have a positive anterior draw test, rather than a positive Noble test. Moreover, ACL injuries typically have an acute onset with a popping sensation at the time of injury, followed by knee swelling and instability.

**B - Lateral meniscus tear** - A lateral meniscus tear can manifest with knee pain that worsens during physical activity. However, meniscus tears are associated with a positive McMurray test, rather than a positive Noble test. Moreover, patients with meniscus tears typically develop joint effusion, restricted knee extension, clicking sounds, inability to squat or kneel, or “locking” of the knee.

**C - Patellofemoral pain syndrome** - Patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFPS) manifests with knee pain that worsens with activities, such as running, and often occurs as an overuse injury in runners. However, patients with PFPS typically present with anterior or peripatellar knee pain and pain after prolonged sitting, with squatting, or climbing stairs. Moreover, a positive Noble test is not expected in patients with PFPS.

**E - Pes anserine pain syndrome** - Pes anserine pain syndrome (PAPS) manifests with knee pain and is typically caused by athletic activities, such as running. However, PAPS is not associated with a positive Noble test. Moreover, the knee pain in PAPS manifests along the medial aspect of the knee and proximal tibia, rather than the lateral knee.

