### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Adequate analgesia and conservative management** - Analgesia and conservative fracture management are the treatment of choice for uncomplicated rib fractures involving < 3 ribs, in which neither hemothorax, pneumothorax, nor any other associated injuries are seen on FAST scan. NSAIDs are typically prescribed, and they may be given in conjunction with opioids or intercostal nerve blocks if necessary. Adequate pain control is important in preventing splinting and atelectasis and their sequelae (e.g., pneumonia).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Continuous positive airway pressure** - Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is indicated for refractory atelectasis following rib fractures. It is not needed as an initial preventive measure for rib fractures without refractory atelectasis, especially since it can cause patient discomfort, gastric distention, hypoventilation, and barotrauma.

**B - Prophylactic antibiotic therapy** - Prophylactic antibiotic therapy could be considered for prevention of wound infection if the patient's rib fractures involved open, dirty wounds. However, there is no mention of these findings in the vignette, and antibiotic prophylaxis does not play a role in the prevention of pneumonia following rib fractures.

**C - Intubation and mechanical ventilation** - Intubation and mechanical ventilation may be necessary in the treatment of severe or complicated rib fracture cases, especially in cases involving flail chest. But flail chest is a complication involving three or more rib fractures. In addition, this patient does not show the abnormal chest movement typical of flail chest, nor is he tachypneic. Although he has shallow breathing, it is most likely due to the pain he is experiencing.

**D - Admission and surveillance in the intensive care unit** - Admission and surveillance in the intensive care unit may be warranted in elderly patients with ≥ 6 rib fractures, or in those with evidence of complications such as pneumothorax or hematothorax. This patient's chest x-ray shows only two fractured ribs and clear lung fields bilaterally, ruling out pneumothorax or hematothorax.

**F - Internal fixation** - Open reduction and internal fixation may be considered for treatment of some rib fractures, particularly those involving flail chest and other chest wall deformities. But flail chest is a complication involving three or more rib fractures. In addition, this patient does not show the abnormal chest movement typical of flail chest, nor is he tachypneic. Although he has shallow breathing, it it is most likely due to the pain he is experiencing.

