### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - HLA-B27 positive genotype** - 90–95% of patients with ankylosing spondylitis are HLA-B27 positive, compared to 6% of the general population. HLA-B27 testing is indicated to diagnose ankylosing spondylitis in patients with an inconclusive clinical presentation and pelvic x-ray. Although most patients with ankylosing spondylitis are HLA-B27 positive, fewer than 5% of people who are HLA-B27 positive develop the disease. Isolated HLA-B27 positivity has little clinical significance. Gene positivity only supports the diagnosis in patients with clinical suspicion of an associated disease (e.g., chronic low back pain and morning stiffness).

Image File: 1027-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_61025ba82e20e.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - High levels of rheumatoid factor** - Although rheumatoid factor is a nonspecific finding that can be found in many conditions, it is classically associated with rheumatoid arthritis. While this woman is at higher risk for RA (woman of childbearing age), it rarely affects the thoracic or lumbar spine. Instead, RA typically causes a symmetric polyarthritis (usually the PIP and MCP joints of the hands).

**C - Presence of anti-dsDNA antibodies** - Anti-dsDNA antibodies are diagnostic of systemic lupus erythematosus. This patient is at elevated risk of SLE (woman of childbearing age, history of celiac disease – an autoimmune disease). Although SLE often causes joint pain, this woman has no other evidence of the disease (e.g., malar rash, photosensitivity). Additionally, SLE typically causes non-erosive arthritis which appears normal on x-ray. This patient's x-ray shows joint abnormalities.

**D - High levels of creatine phosphokinase** - Creatine phosphokinase is elevated following brain or muscle damage (e.g., vigorous exercise, myositis, rhabdomyolysis). Although lumbar muscle damage is a common cause of acute low back pain, it would not persist for 9 months. Additionally, muscle damage would not explain this patient's x-ray abnormalities.

**E - Presence of anti-Ro and anti-La antibodies** - The presence of both anti-Ro and anti-La antibodies is suggestive of either Sjogren's syndrome or systemic lupus erythematosus, for which this patient is at increased risk (woman of childbearing age, history of Celiac disease). While both diseases frequently cause joint pain, this patient lacks associated symptoms (e.g., dry eye/mouth for Sjogren's syndrome or rash for SLE). In addition, neither of these diseases cause joint abnormalities on x-ray, as seen in this patient.

**F - HLA-DR3 positive genotype** - HLA-DR3 is associated with a number of autoimmune diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus. This patient is at elevated risk of SLE (woman of childbearing age, history of celiac disease – an autoimmune disease). Although SLE often causes joint pain, this woman has no other evidence of the disease (e.g., malar rash, photosensitivity). Also, SLE typically causes non-erosive arthritis which appears normal on x-ray; this patient's x-ray shows joint abnormalities.

