### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Leucovorin** - Typical side effects of methotrexate (MTX) include myelosuppression, causing (macrocytic) anemia, leukocytopenia, and thrombocytopenia, as well as constitutional symptoms (e.g., fatigue, fever), which are seen in this patient. Side effects of MTX can be reduced by administering salvage therapy in the form of folic acid or folinic acid (leucovorin). Leucovorin should be administered as prophylactic therapy within 24–48 hours of starting high-dose treatment with MTX.

Other side effects of MTX include mucositis, hair loss, susceptibility to infection, hepatotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, macrocytic anemia, pulmonary toxicity, and pulmonary fibrosis.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cobalamin** - Intramuscular supplementation with cobalamin (vitamin B12) should be given to individuals with cobalamin deficiency. This patient has some features of cobalamin deficiency, including fatigue, anemia, thrombocytopenia, and leukocytopenia. However, he lacks other typical findings, such as peripheral neuropathy, loss of vibratory sensation, and glossitis. Moreover, he does not have a history of malabsorption or malnutrition (e.g., chronic alcoholism), making cobalamin deficiency unlikely.

**B - Amifostine** - Amifostine acts as a free radical scavenger. It should be added to treatment regimens that include platinum-based agents (e.g., cisplatin) to prevent nephrotoxic side effects. However, this patient does not present with signs of impaired kidney function (e.g., oliguria). Moreover, platinum-based agents are not used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis but rather to treat certain malignancies (e.g., lung cancer, ovarian cancer, and urothelial carcinoma).

**C - Pyridoxine** - Pyridoxine (vitamin B6) should be added to treatment regimens that include isoniazid (INH), a drug most commonly used to treat tuberculosis. While vitamin B6 deficiency is rare in the general population, it is commonly seen in association with INH, as INH competes with pyridoxine in neurotransmitter synthesis. Patients with chronic pyridoxine deficiency typically present with sensory peripheral neuropathy, stomatitis, glossitis, and convulsions, none of which are present in this patient. Moreover, this patient lacks features of tuberculosis such as weight loss, night sweats, and productive cough.

**E - Mesna** - Mesna deactivates acrolein and increases the urinary excretion of cysteine. It should be added to treatment regimens that include cyclophosphamide to prevent hemorrhagic cystitis. Some cases of rheumatoid arthritis can be treated with cyclophosphamide. However, the patient lacks typical findings of hemorrhagic cystitis such as hematuria and symptoms of bladder irritation (e.g., increased urinary frequency and urgency).

