### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Achilles tendon rupture** - Achilles tendon rupture commonly manifests with acute, severe pain during strenuous activity, calf tenderness, calf swelling, and abnormal Thompson test. A loud snapping sound is a hallmark of this condition, although it does not occur in every patient. Risk factors for Achilles tendon rupture include male sex, advanced age, obesity, a sudden increase in exercise intensity, and the use of fluoroquinolones. Although rupture of the Achilles tendon is usually a clinical diagnosis, ultrasonography and MRI might be used to confirm the diagnosis. Conservative management of Achilles tendon rupture includes icing, analgesics (e.g., with NSAIDs), immobilization, and rest, while surgical options include an open or percutaneous tendon repair. The choice between conservative therapy and surgical therapy depends largely on comorbidities, age, and activity level.

Image File: 1032-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a7ed0520a6cd.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Retrocalcaneal bursitis** - Retrocalcaneal bursitis commonly manifests with pain and swelling in the region of the Achilles tendon insertion and is associated with increased age, obesity, and sudden increase in physical activity. However, physical examination usually shows localized tenderness with compression of the soft tissue behind the Achilles tendon superior to the calcaneus, not tenderness of the posterior distal calf and the posterior heel. Furthermore, Thompson test is typically normal in patients with retrocalcaneal bursitis.

**B - Deep vein thrombosis** - Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) commonly manifests with unilateral swelling and tenderness of the calf and occurs most frequently after long periods of immobilization (e.g., long-distance flights). However, a sudden onset of symptoms with physical activity is uncommon in DVT. Furthermore, this patient has no other signs of DVT (e.g., warmth, erythema, dilated veins). Finally, physical examination does not typically elicit pain in the heel, and Thompson test is usually normal.

**D - Calcaneal apophysitis** - Calcaneal apophysitis commonly manifests with unilateral or bilateral heel pain during strenuous physical activity and occurs most frequently in male individuals and people with obesity. It is, however, more common in adolescents than in adults, with a peak incidence age of 8–12 years. Furthermore, physical examination usually elicits pain with compression of the heel, not the distal calf, and Thompson test is typically normal.

**E - Calcaneal stress fracture** - Calcaneal stress fracture commonly manifests with heel pain due to poor technique or an increase in exercise load or frequency. The pain typically worsens during physical activity and subsides with rest. However, physical examination usually shows tenderness along the medial and lateral walls of the posterior calcaneus, not tenderness of the posterior distal calf and the posterior heel. Furthermore, Thompson test is typically normal.

