### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Duplex ultrasonography** - In hemodynamically stable patients with a suspected vascular injury, appropriate diagnostic studies should be performed to evaluate the vascular injury. This could be achieved by means of angiography, which can be performed by the physician in the emergency room or the operating room, and duplex ultrasonography, which should be performed by a trained vascular technologist or radiologist. This patient's underlying diabetes mellitus and renal insufficiency increases his likelihood of developing contrast-induced nephropathy during arteriography. For this reason, he should instead undergo duplex ultrasonography, which does not require contrast.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Wound cleaning and tetanus toxoid** - In patients with unknown or insufficient tetanus and diphtheria immunization, appropriate tetanus prophylaxis with tetanus toxoid should be administered as soon as possible following an acute injury or wound. Tetanus immunoglobulin should also be administered in undervaccinated patients who have sustained a wound that might be dirty or contaminated. Wounds should be cleaned thoroughly and necrotic tissue should be debrided. Although this patient should be asked about his tetanus immunization history, potential vascular injury should be investigated first.

**B - Fasciotomy** - Patients with acute compartment syndrome require urgent fasciotomy to relieve the pressure and prevent tissue necrosis. Although gunshot wounds may result in compartment syndrome due to inflammation, edema, or hematoma formation, this patient does not complain of tightness or swelling in his lower extremity. Signs of compartment syndrome, such as size disparity between the two lower extremities or paresthesia, are also not revealed in the physical exam.

**C - CT angiography** - CT angiography is one of the best diagnostic methods for evaluating vascular injury in hemodynamically stable patients without clear signs of vascular injury such as bleeding or extremity ischemia. However, this patient's renal insufficiency and history of diabetes mellitus increase his risk for contrast-induced nephropathy, which means that angiography is not the preferred method in this case.

**D - Digital subtraction angiography** - Digital subtraction angiography is a method for investigating arterial vascular injury, allowing for real-time visualization of the patient's arteries. However, the patient's renal insufficiency and diabetes mellitus put him at risk of contrast-induced nephropathy and therefore make him a less than ideal candidate for administration of IV contrast.

**E - Surgical exploration** - Patients exhibiting 'hard signs' of arterial injury require urgent surgical repair. Hard signs of arterial injury include active hemorrhage, expanding or pulsatile hematoma, bruit or thrill over the wound, absent distal pulses, and extremity ischemia. This patient meets none of the criteria, and is hemodynamically stable enough to undergo further diagnostic testing.

