### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - X-ray of the right hip** - In patients presenting with nonspecific knee pain and no findings to suggest knee pathology, hip pathology must be considered as a potential source of knee pain, especially in pediatric patients. In pediatric patients like this one, with limited extension and internal rotation of the hip joint, an x-ray of the hip must be promptly obtained to rule out slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE), which requires immediate avoidance of weight-bearing and urgent surgical intervention. If the x-ray of the hip shows no findings to suggest SCFE (e.g., widening of the joint space, displacement of the femoral head posteriorly and inferiorly to the femoral neck), Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease must be considered because patients with this condition commonly have normal radiographs in the early course of the disease.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - MRI of the right knee** - An MRI can be obtained after a negative knee x-ray if there is still a concern for internal derangement (e.g., knee effusion secondary to a bone, cartilage, ligamentous, meniscus, or patellar injury), infection, or malignancy. This patient, however, despite knee pain, has a normal range of motion of the right knee without point tenderness, anterior laxity, edema, or other signs and symptoms that suggest knee pathology. Therefore, an MRI of the knee is not the most appropriate next step in management.

**C - Rest and ibuprofen therapy** - Rest and ibuprofen therapy may be considered as supportive care for pain. However, in a patient with suspected referred pain, additional workup is indicated to exclude other conditions that might require urgent intervention.

**D - X-ray of the lumbar spine** - An x-ray of the lumbar spine can be considered if referred back pain is suspected. Referred back pain can be caused by L2–L5 and S1 radiculopathies, which can manifest with thigh and knee pain, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, radiculopathies are uncommon in children, and patients typically also present with back pain, which is not seen here. Patients with radiculopathies may also present with weakness of knee extension, hip flexion and adduction, and reduced patellar reflex, none of which this patient has.

**E - Arthroscopy of the right knee** - Arthroscopy of the knee is most commonly indicated in patients with acute knee injuries, such as osteochondral fractures, meniscal lesions, and ligamentous tears. This patient, however, despite knee pain, has a normal range of motion of the right knee without point tenderness, anterior laxity, edema, or other signs and symptoms that suggest knee pathology. Therefore, arthroscopy of the knee is not the most appropriate next step in management.

