### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Vitamin D deficiency** - Vitamin D deficiency is the underlying cause of this patient's osteomalacia. She is taking phenytoin, a cytochrome P450 inducer that increases the catabolism of vitamin D to inactive metabolites. Decreased vitamin D levels reduce intestinal calcium absorption, resulting in hypocalcemia, which, in turn, stimulates PTH secretion (secondary hyperparathyroidism). PTH decreases phosphate reabsorption in the proximal convoluted tubules, leading to hypophosphatemia. This patient's bone pain and muscle cramps are likely due to osteomalacia and hypocalcemia, respectively.

Image File: 1036-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f199115bb7a4.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia** - Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia (FHH), which is caused by decreased sensitivity of calcium-sensing receptors, is associated with mild hypercalcemia and normal to elevated PTH, unlike the hypocalcemia and increased PTH levels in this patient. Furthermore, patients with FFH are typically asymptomatic and do not present with radiographic abnormalities of the bone.

**B - Metastatic bone disease** - Osteolytic metastatic bone disease may manifest as bone pain with radiolucent bone lesions. However, osteolytic metastases typically result in hypercalcemia, decreased PTH levels (secondary hypoparathyroidism), and hyperphosphatemia, unlike the findings seen in this patient. Moreover, osteolytic metastases typically appear on x-ray as ill-defined round lesions or pathological fractures.

**C - Primary hyperparathyroidism** - Primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT) can cause bone pain and is associated with increased PTH levels, which are seen here. However, in pHPT, elevated levels of PTH increase calcium levels by increasing bone turnover and calcium reabsorption from the distal convoluted tubule. Increased PTH also causes hypophosphatemia by preventing phosphate reabsorption at the proximal convoluted tubule. Furthermore, femur x-ray would show cortical thinning and/or brown tumors in pHPT.

**E - Paget disease of bone** - Paget disease of the bone (PDB) can manifest with bone pain and mixed stages of PDB and may show both lucent and sclerotic changes on x-ray. However, PDB does not result in muscle cramps or paresthesias and is characterized by normal calcium, phosphorus, and PTH levels, unlike the findings in this patient. Moreover, long bone (e.g., femur) involvement in PBD typically appears on x-ray as one or more flame-shaped, subchondral lesions that extend along the diaphysis and possibly result in bowing of the affected long bone.

