### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Hematogenous spread of infection** - This patient presents with typical symptoms of septic arthritis, including fever, joint pain, and restricted range of motion. The knee is a commonly affected joint in septic arthritis, which is most commonly caused by hematogenous spread of bacteria (most commonly Staphylococcus aureus) from a distant wound site, such as an infected diabetic ulcer. Other characteristics of septic arthritis include a synovial fluid WBC count of over 50,000/μL and dominance of polymorphonuclear cells (PMN), as seen here.

Image File: 1038-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94d0adbf.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Direct innoculation of infectious agent** - Septic arthritis, which is the likely diagnosis in this patient, can be caused by direct inoculation of bacteria secondary to iatrogenic interventions (e.g., arthrocentesis, arthroscopy) or trauma (e.g., open wounds around the joint, penetrating trauma). However, this patient has no history of recent joint procedure or trauma and physical examination did not show and open wounds around the knee, making a different etiology more likely.

**B - Autoimmune response to bacterial infection** - This is the mechanism of reactive arthritis, which usually presents with fever, malaise, and lower extremity joint pain. This patient's inconsistent use of condoms puts her at risk for infection with Chlamydia trachomatis, which can cause reactive arthritis. However, it typically presents as asymmetrical polyarthritis, that is often combined with sacroiliitis and extra‑articular symptoms (e.g., conjunctivitis or anterior uveitis), which this patient does not have. Moreover, while synovial fluid analysis in a patient with autoimmune-mediated inflammation may also present with increased total WBC, dominance of PMN would likely be less pronounced. Furthermore, this patient lacks symptoms of an preceding infection such as diarrhea or dysuria, making a different diagnosis more likely.

Image File: 1038-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_597b5194b1011.jpg

**C - Occult meniscal tear** - Occult meniscal tears can arise from knee injuries or degenerative processes. Although there is no history of recent knee trauma, this patient recently started exercising and she could have suffered a previously undiagnosed meniscal tear. However, injury would typically cause a much lower overall WBC and PMN on synovial fluid analysis. Moreover, some cases of injury can lead to blood in the synovial fluid (hemarthrosis), which this patient does not have.

Image File: 1038-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ac7582d4eca.jpg

**E - Avascular necrosis of the tibial tuberosity** - Avascular necrosis of the tibial tuberosity causes Osgood-Schlatter disease, which presents with anterior knee pain worsened by activity and proximal tibial swelling. However, this diagnosis is not associated with fever, joint stiffness, or limited range of motion, and occurs mostly in boys 9–14 years of age. Lastly, Osgood-Schlatter disease would present with a low total WBC and PMN count, unlike the findings on this patient's synovial fluid analysis.

Image File: 1038-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9457db21.jpg

**F - Intra-articular deposition of urate crystals** - Intra-articular deposition of urate crystals causes arthritic symptoms in patients with gout. This patient's regular alcohol consumption, weight, and diabetes mellitus put her at increased risk for gout. She also has some typical findings of an acute gout attack such as joint pain, swelling, restricted range of motion, an elevated WBC, and low glucose levels on synovial fluid analysis. While this patient's symptoms are very similar to acute gout, the absence of monosodium urate crystals on synovial fluid analysis and the presence of a diabetic foot ulcer suggest a different diagnosis.

Image File: 1038-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589c32ec039a7.jpg

**G - Medication side effect** - This woman is currently being treated with metformin and alendronate. While metformin is not commonly associated with musculoskeletal side effects, bisphosphonates like alendronate may cause bone and joint pain. However, this patient's fever and acute monoarthritis, along with the findings on synovial fluid analysis suggest a different diagnosis.

**H - Autoimmune-mediated inflammation of the synovium** - An autoimmune-mediated inflammation of the synovium causes joint destruction in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). This patient's family history puts her at an increased risk for RA, which may also affect the knee joints. However, it would typically present with symmetrical polyarthritis of the finger and wrist joints, morning stiffness, and constitutional symptoms, which this patient does not have. The dramatically increased total WBC and dominance of PMN is more suggestive of a different condition.

Image File: 1038-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_509be9f3bf2a7.jpg

