### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - C7** - C7 radiculopathy typically manifests with ipsilateral pain or paresthesia extending from the dorsal medial forearm up to the fingers II–IV and in palmar fingers II–IV (ulnar half of II, III entirely, radial half of IV). Damage to the C7 nerve root leads to impaired function of the triceps, wrist flexor, and finger extensor muscles as well as a reduction in triceps reflex.

The dermatomes overlap with each other and vary widely among individuals. Therefore, it may be difficult to identify the affected root only via sensory patterns, even in severe cases. Although the distribution of the sensory deficits is useful for the diagnosis, deficits are often not as characteristic as in this patient.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - C4** - C4 radiculopathy typically manifests with ipsilateral pain and paresthesia affecting the lower neck and shoulder girdle (i.e., cape-like distribution), which is not the pattern seen here. Moreover, damage to the C4 nerve root leads to scapular winging, a condition that can arise due to any lesion to the dorsal scapular nerve innervating the rhomboid muscles. Finally, C4 radiculopathy does not cause a reduction in any of the reflexes of the upper extremity.

Image File: 1039-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_597614e89fd28.jpg

**B - C5** - C5 radiculopathy typically manifests with ipsilateral pain and paresthesia over the anterior shoulder, which is inconsistent with this patient's sensory deficits. Moreover, damage to the C5 nerve root leads to impaired function of the biceps and deltoid muscles as well as a reduction in biceps reflex, none of which is seen here.

**C - C6** - C6 radiculopathy typically manifests with ipsilateral pain and paresthesia extending from the radial aspect of the forearm to the thumb and radial side of the index finger, which is inconsistent with this patient's sensory deficits. Moreover, damage to the C6 nerve root leads to impaired function of the biceps and wrist extensor muscles as well as a reduction in biceps and brachioradialis reflexes, none of which is seen here.

**E - C8** - C8 radiculopathy typically manifests with ipsilateral pain and paresthesia extending from the dorsal forearm to the dorsal and palmar area of fingers IV (ulnar half) and V, and the hypothenar eminence, which is not the pattern seen here. Moreover, damage to the C8 nerve root leads to impaired function of the finger flexors and does not cause a reduction in any of the reflexes of the upper extremity.

