### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - L4** - L4 radiculopathy characteristically manifests with sensory loss or paresthesia extending from the distal anterolateral thigh over the patella to the medial lower leg, as seen in this patient. Diminished knee extension would also be expected since innervation of the quadriceps is impaired. This patient's reduced patellar reflex further supports the diagnosis of impingement of the L4 nerve root as the underlying cause.

Image File: 1048-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_597614e89fd28.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - L5** - L5 radiculopathy typically manifests with diminished sensation extending diagonally from the dorsolateral thigh over the lateral knee and the anterior leg to the dorsomedial side of the foot, including the medial toes. This pattern is inconsistent with this patient's sensory deficits. In addition, an impinged L5 nerve root would not affect knee extension or the patellar reflex but would instead lead to impaired dorsiflexion of the foot due to impaired innervation of the tibialis anterior and extensor hallucis longus muscles.

**B - S2** - S2 radiculopathy is relatively rare compared to other radiculopathies and may present with diminished sensation affecting the posterior aspect of the thigh, partly extending down to the posterior leg and the perineum. Moreover, affected individuals often have urinary or fecal incontinence and sexual dysfunction, none of which this patient has.

**C - S1** - S1 radiculopathy typically presents with sensory deficits involving the posterolateral aspect of the thigh, anterolateral as well as the posterolateral lower leg, and the lateral foot, which is inconsistent with this patient's presentation. Moreover, an impinged S1 nerve root would not affect the patellar reflex but would instead lead to diminished ankle jerk reflex in combination with difficulty walking on toes due to impaired innervation of the gastrocnemius, peroneus longus, and peroneus brevis muscles.

**D - L3** - L3 radiculopathy typically manifests with impaired sensation extending from the mid-anterolateral thigh to the medial thigh just above the patella, unlike the deficits seen in this patient. While affected individuals may present with a reduced adductor reflex and/or a mildly reduced patellar reflex along with mild impairment of knee extension, impaired hip flexion and adduction is more characteristic of L3 radiculopathy.

