### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Intravenous calcium gluconate** - Calcium gluconate is the first-line therapy for hyperkalemia with signs of cardiotoxicity, as demonstrated by the peaked T waves on ECG here. This patient has likely suffered rhabdomyolysis and crush syndrome secondary to injuries caused by the car accident. The breakdown of skeletal muscle tissue releases intracellular potassium stores into the bloodstream, resulting in hyperkalemia. Calcium gluconate rapidly stabilizes the cardiac cell membrane against potassium-induced depolarization, giving it a cardioprotective effect. Onset of action is within 5 minutes, and duration of action is about 30–60 minutes.

Image File: 1050-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60d4752b7c394.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral acetaminophen** - This patient is in severe pain, which must be addressed. However, oral acetaminophen would not be appropriate because of its low analgesic potency and delayed onset. An intravenous opioid (e.g., morphine) would be preferable. Furthermore, this patient's clinical features, ECG, and hyperkalemia point to a medical condition that warrants more urgent treatment and would be prioritized over pain management.

**C - Intravenous mannitol** - Intravenous mannitol would be appropriate if this patient were showing signs of elevated intracranial pressure. However, this patient is alert and oriented with no signs of altered mental status. While a CT scan of the head could be obtained to definitively rule out an intracranial bleed, there is no indication for mannitol at this time.

**D - Intravenous sodium bicarbonate** - Intravenous sodium bicarbonate can be used to manage metabolic acidosis when the pH is less than 7.1. It could also be used to lower this patient's level of potassium. However, the peaked T waves on ECG point to cardiotoxicity, which requires emergent management with a different therapeutic agent.

**E - Intravenous insulin** - Insulin can be used in the treatment of hyperkalemia and is generally administered in combination with glucose (unless the patient's serum glucose is ≥ 250 mg/dL). Insulin helps to lower serum potassium levels by stimulating the Na+-K+-ATPase pump, which causes excess potassium ions to shift intracellularly. However, it usually takes 10–20 minutes for insulin to have an effect. This patient's ECG and the degree of hyperkalemia warrant a more rapid initial treatment to reduce cardiotoxicity.

**F - Packed red blood cell transfusion** - Packed red blood cell transfusion is not indicated at this time. As the patient's hemoglobin is 9.2, trends in hemoglobin and hematocrit levels should be assessed to monitor blood loss. If the hemoglobin level drops below 8.0, or if the patient's blood pressure fails to improve after two liters of normal saline, blood transfusion would then be appropriate.

**G - Intravenous norepinephrine** - An intravenous norepinephrine drip would be used to manage hypotension in the case of septic shock. However, this patient is in hypovolemic shock, which is treated with fluid resuscitation. Vasopressors such as norepinephrine should not be administered, since they do not correct the primary problem of hypovolemia and tend to further reduce tissue perfusion.

