### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Paget disease of bone** - Paget disease of bone is an idiopathic disease associated with increased bone remodeling. The bone remodeling is caused by increased activity of osteoblasts and osteoclasts, which leads to the formation of disorganized (woven) bone that is weaker than normal bone and abnormal in structure. Paget disease of bone therefore manifests with pathological fractures, bone pain with overlying erythema (due to increased vascularity of the underlying bone), and hearing loss (due to ankylosis of the ossicles or compression of the vestibulocochlear nerve). Elevated serum alkaline phosphatase concentrations with normal serum calcium and phosphate concentrations, as seen in this patient, are a hallmark laboratory finding. Treatment consists of bisphosphonates.

Image File: 1052-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_602f844a15020.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Type 1 osteopetrosis** - Type 1 osteopetrosis is characterized by increased bone mineralization and can present with bone pain, pathological fracture, and increased alkaline phosphatase levels. However, this disease presents during early childhood and is also associated with short stature and intellectual disability. Mortality is high and most children die before age five.

**B - Osteoporosis** - Osteoporosis is characterized by a decrease in bone mineral density and is most common in postmenopausal women. While osteoporosis should be on the differential for any postmenopausal woman with a pathological fracture, the diagnosis would not be consistent with this patient's hearing loss and chronic knee pain. In addition, while mild ALP elevation could be seen in osteoporosis, the degree of elevation in this patient would be unusual.

**C - Primary biliary cholangitis** - Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is characterized by cholestatic liver disease and may present with elevated ALP levels. However, in the absence of elevated GGT and other typical clinical findings of PBC (e.g., fatigue, pruritus, RUQ pain, hyperpigmentation, hepatomegaly), a different diagnosis is more likely.

**D - Osteomalacia** - Osteomalacia is characterized by impaired mineralization of the bone and can also present with chronic bone pain, pathological fractures, and increased ALP levels. X-ray findings typically include low bone mineral density, thin cortices, and pseudofractures. Osteomalacia is associated with hypocalcemia and would not explain her hearing loss, making a different diagnosis more likely.

**E - Rheumatoid arthritis** - The diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) should always be considered in patients presenting with polyarthritis and concerning family history. However, she lacks other typical findings of rheumatoid arthritis (such as MCP and PIP involvement), and RA is not associated with pathological fractures or elevated ALP levels.

Image File: 1052-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_509be9f3bf2a7.jpg

**F - McCune-Albright syndrome** - McCune-Albright syndrome is a rare genetic disorder characterized by precocious puberty, café-au-lait spots, and fibrous dysplasia of the bone. While it can present with pathological fractures, this condition is very rare and manifests during childhood.

**H - Bone metastases** - This patient's history of breast cancer puts her at increased risk of malignant bone metastases, which can also present with bone pain, pathological fracture, and increased ALP levels. However, her hearing loss and chronic knee pain suggest a different diagnosis. In addition, the normal serum calcium levels and absence of systemic symptoms makes metastases unlikely.

