### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Staphylococcus aureus** - Staphylococcus aureus is the most common causative pathogen of osteomyelitis, especially in patients with a history of penetrating trauma, patients with prosthetics, and patients with IV drug use. Bacteria can reach the vertebral disks either through hematogenous dissemination or exogenously (e.g., penetrating injuries), as seen here. The microbiologic diagnosis of osteomyelitis is confirmed with a bone biopsy. Conservative treatment with antibiotics is sufficient in most cases. In cases of refractory disease, abscess formation, prosthetic joint infection, or signs of cord compression, surgery is indicated.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Salmonella species** - Salmonella spp. can seed the vertebral bodies and intervertebral disks in patients with bacteremia following salmonellosis or typhoid fever, causing osteomyelitis. This patient, however, has no signs and symptoms to suggest salmonellosis or typhoid fever. In addition, osteomyelitis caused by Salmonella spp. more commonly occurs in individuals with sickle cell disease, which is not seen in this patient.

**B - Escherichia coli** - Escherichia coli can seed the vertebral bodies and intervertebral disks in patients with bacteremia following a urinary tract infection (UTI), causing osteomyelitis. However, this patient does not have any signs and symptoms of a UTI (e.g., dysuria, increased urinary frequency). Moreover, while E. coli causes osteomyelitis via hematogenous dissemination, this patient's history of a penetrating injury suggests exogenous dissemination, in which different pathogens are more commonly implicated.

**C - Pseudomonas aeruginosa** - Pseudomonas aeruginosa can cause vertebral osteomyelitis via hematogenous dissemination in patients with IV drug use, plantar puncture wounds, or chronically infected foot ulcers (e.g., in patients with diabetes), none of which are seen here. This patient's history of penetrating injury suggests exogenous osteomyelitis, in which different pathogens are more commonly implicated.

**E - Mycobacterium tuberculosis** - Disseminated Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection can also cause vertebral osteomyelitis (Pott disease). However, disseminated M. tuberculosis infection is typically seen in immunocompromised patients (e.g., those with HIV), whereas this patient has no history of serious illness.

**F - Brucella species** - Brucella spp. can seed the vertebral bodies and intervertebral disks in patients with brucellosis, causing vertebral osteomyelitis. However, the vast majority of cases occur in individuals with occupational or recreational exposure to infected animals and animal products (e.g., farmers, veterinarians, hunters, slaughterhouse workers, laboratory personnel), which is not seen here.

