### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Methotrexate** - Methotrexate is a disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) and the first-line, long-term therapy for moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis. Early administration of DMARDs is crucial, because damage to the affected joints occurs early in the course of RA. Methotrexate is highly effective, well-tolerated, and inexpensive but has a slow onset of action (> 6 weeks). For this reason, bridging therapy with glucocorticoids or NSAIDs is normally indicated during acute attacks, but this patient's last acute attack has already ended 5 days ago, obviating the need for bridging therapy.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Ceftriaxone** - Ceftriaxone would be an empiric antibiotic treatment option for septic arthritis, if arthrocentesis of the affected joint had revealed gram-negative cocci. Septic arthritis presents with joint pain, fever, limited range of motion, and swelling, all of which are seen in this patient during the attacks. However, unlike the condition in this patient, septic arthritis usually affects only a single large joint, and the pain and fever are typically severe and not self-limited.

**C - Hydroxychloroquine** - Hydroxychloroquine is a non-biological disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) that is used in combination therapy for refractory rheumatoid arthritis or as monotherapy if the first-line treatment is contraindicated. It is also the first-line treatment for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Given her family history of SLE, this patient is at increased risk of SLE. Arthritis symptoms and fever, both of which are seen in this patient, are common findings in SLE. However, she lacks other typical findings of SLE, such as malar rash and photosensitivity. In addition, the arthritis in SLE is typically non-destructive, whereas the x-ray shows joint destruction in this patient.

**D - Adalimumab** - Adalimumab is a biologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) that is used as an adjunct long-term treatment option for patients who do not respond to the first-line monotherapy. However, since as this patient has not yet received any form of treatment, adalimumab is not indicated at this point.

**E - Prednisolone** - Systemic or intra-articular prednisolone would be a treatment option during an acute attack of rheumatoid arthritis. However, this patient's last acute attack has already ended. Glucocorticoids are not used for long-term treatment because of their extensive side effect profile and the availability of more effective alternatives.

**F - Diclofenac** - Diclofenac would be a good treatment option in case of an acute attack. Even though it does not halt disease progression, it is effective in alleviating acute symptoms (pain, swelling) and can be used for symptomatic treatment until the long-term treatment has started to have an effect. But this patient's acute attack has already ended and, as such, long-term treatment needs to be initiated.

