### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Langerhans cell histiocytosis** - Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) is a rare disorder that most commonly affects children 5–10 years of age. It presents as single or multiple osteolytic lesions that cause bone pain and swelling. The skull is the most commonly affected bone in children (as in this patient), but LCH can also involve the liver, spleen, and other organ systems. This patient's anemia may be secondary to bone marrow involvement. Serum calcium levels are typically normal in patients with LCH.

Image File: 1056-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a71a19f61f95.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Multiple myeloma** - Multiple myeloma would result in anemia and calvarial osteolytic lesions with bone pain. However, multiple myeloma typically presents in patients older than 40 years of age. Additionally, hypercalcemia is typically present and skull involvement in multiple myeloma is usually associated with multiple osteolytic lesions, unlike the solitary osteolytic lesion in this patient.

Image File: 1056-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91f78906.jpg

**B - Osteitis fibrosa cystica** - Severe hyperparathyroidism, which typically occurs with parathyroid adenoma or severe ESKD, can cause painful, osteolytic, calvarial lesions (osteitis fibrosa cystica). Hyperparathyroidism (especially hyperparathyroidism secondary to ESKD) is also associated with anemia. However, parathyroid adenomas typically occur among women older than 50 years, and would be associated with hypercalcemia. Also, there is no history of CKD in this patient. Moreover, calvarial osteitis fibrosa cystica typically presents with multiple osteolytic lesions interspersed with regions of sclerosis (“pepperpot” skull), unlike the single osteolytic lesion in this patient.

**D - Ewing sarcoma** - Ewing sarcoma typically occurs during childhood or adolescence, and would present as an osteolytic lesion with localized pain and swelling, as seen here. Anemia may also be seen in some patients with Ewing sarcoma. However, Ewing sarcoma typically affects the diaphyses of long bones such as the femur or tibia.

**E - Aneurysmal bone cyst** - An aneurysmal bone cyst would appear on x-ray as an osteolytic lesion, and it can cause localized pain and swelling. However, peak incidence occurs during adolescence, and it most typically localizes to the spine, femur, and tibia. Additionally, this diagnosis would not explain this patient's anemia.

**F - Ossifying fibroma** - An ossifying fibroma typically occurs during childhood and would present as an osteolytic lesion. A localized swelling may be present in some patients. However, ossifying fibromas most commonly affect the tibia and/or fibula, and are typically painless. Additionally, this diagnosis would not explain this patient's anemia.

**G - Giant-cell tumor of bone** - Giant-cell tumor of bone would present with localized pain and swelling, and appear on x-ray as an osteolytic lesion. However, this tumor typically occurs in patients older than 20 years and affects the epiphyses of long bones, usually around the knee. Additionally, this diagnosis would not explain this patient's anemia.

