### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Cefazolin** - Cefazolin is a first-generation cephalosporin and has activity against gram-positive cocci and certain gram-negative pathogens such as Proteus, Klebsiella, and E. coli. A single dose of intravenous cefazolin administered 30–60 minutes before the first surgical incision is an appropriate regimen for perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis in most procedures, including orthopedic surgeries. In the case of beta-lactam allergy, clindamycin or vancomycin can be used. In procedures such as appendectomy, colorectal surgery, and small bowel surgery, intravenous metronidazole should be added to cover anaerobes (e.g., Bacteroides fragilis). For colorectal surgeries, oral antibiotic therapy with neomycin and erythromycin, or with neomycin and metronidazole, should be performed for bowel preparation the day before surgery.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Aztreonam** - Aztreonam primarily covers gram-negative bacilli. Aztreonam does not cover the most common causes of SSI following an elective orthopedic procedure and is therefore not indicated as the first-line antibiotic for SSI prophylaxis in this scenario. Aztreonam is recommended as part of the first-line regimen in urologic procedures that do not enter the urinary tract and involve prosthesis implantation.

**C - Vancomycin** - Vancomycin is effective against gram-positive bacteria, which are typically implicated in SSIs following elective orthopedic procedures. However, for most surgical procedures, including orthopedic procedures, vancomycin is only recommended for patients with beta-lactam allergy (i.e., as a second-line drug for perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis).

**D - Ceftaroline** - Ceftaroline is a fifth-generation cephalosporin. It has a broad spectrum of activity, including against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). This antibiotic is reserved for use in severe skin and soft tissue infections. It should not be used for routine perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis.

**E - Clindamycin** - Clindamycin primarily covers anaerobic bacteria but also has some activity against gram-positive bacteria, which are typically implicated in SSIs following elective orthopedic procedures. However, for most surgical procedures, including orthopedic procedures, clindamycin is only recommended for patients with beta-lactam allergy (i.e., as a second-line drug for perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis).

