### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Palmar fibromatosis** - Dupuytren contracture (also referred to as palmar fibromatosis) is caused by fibromatosis of the palmar fascia, a process in which palmar fascia becomes thickened or scarred. This effect leads to the overproliferation of fibroblasts and the formation of collagen nodules/cords which restrict extension of the affected digits. As seen in this patient, the 4th and 5th digits are most commonly involved. Dupuytren contracture is a clinical diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Osteoarthritis** - Osteoarthritis can cause stiffening of the joints, especially in the morning. This stiffness, however, may wax and wane throughout the day, depending on activity level. This patient has a constant, fixed flexion contracture. Furthermore, osteoarthritis would not explain his skin puckering and nodes.

**C - Ganglion cyst** - Ganglion cysts are common benign masses that develop along tendons or joints and may be asymptomatic or cause acute or chronic pain. Unlike the palmar nodules present in this patient, ganglion cysts typically occur on the back of the wrist, are commonly tender to touch, are not associated with skin puckering, and rarely cause resistance to flexion/extension; therefore, another diagnosis is more likely.

**D - Ulnar nerve lesion** - A proximal ulnar nerve lesion can cause a claw hand deformity in which the patient is unable to extend the 4th and 5th digits. These lesions are generally accompanied by numbness in the ulnar aspect of the palm, and unlike in this patient, are not associated with nodules/puckering of the skin.

**E - Tendon sheath tumor** - Giant cell tumors of the tendon sheath are benign soft tissue masses of the hand that are generally painless but may cause some distal numbness. Although giant cell tumors form nodules, they most commonly affect the 2nd and 3rd digits near the DIP joint. This patient's primary symptom is limited range of motion that affects the 4th and 5th digits.

**F - Tenosynovitis** - Tenosynovitis causes painful flexion/extension (depending on the tendon affected) that relieves with rest. A stenosing tenosynovitis (trigger finger) may cause catching/locking which suddenly relieves with a “snap/pop” upon extension.

