### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Scaphoid** - The scaphoid is the most commonly fractured carpal bone. Fracture results from an axial load injury onto a hyperextended and radially deviated wrist and manifests with mild wrist pain, swelling, and painful pinching and grasping, as seen in this patient. Although many scaphoid fractures can be treated conservatively with immobilization, proximal pole fractures carry a high risk of avascular necrosis and often require surgical fixation.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Ulna** - A fracture of the ulna is often caused by a direct blow to or a fall onto a pronated forearm. These fractures result in localized pain, swelling, and often gross deformation and/or loss of range of motion at the forearm or wrist. Although this patient has wrist pain and swelling, the mechanism of injury makes an ulnar fracture less likely. Furthermore, the x-ray does not show an ulnar fracture.

**C - Radius** - A fracture of the distal radius (e.g., Colles fracture) can be caused by an axial load injury onto a hyperextended wrist, particularly in patients with osteoporosis or those who have sustained a high-energy trauma. Distal radius fractures manifest with wrist pain, swelling, and grasp deficits, which are seen in this patient. However, this patient's young age and low-energy mechanism of injury make a Colles fracture less likely. Furthermore, the x-ray shows no fracture at the distal radius.

**D - Lunate** - Lunate fractures and peri-lunate dislocations are rare injuries resulting from high-energy trauma to a hyperextended and ulnar deviated wrist. Patients present with wrist pain, swelling, and occasionally median nerve injuries such as acute carpal tunnel syndrome. Although this patient has wrist pain and swelling after an axial load injury, the low-energy mechanism of injury makes a lunate fracture or dislocation less likely. Moreover, the x-ray is inconsistent with a lunate fracture.

**E - Hamate** - A fracture of the hamate body is a rare carpal bone injury that is usually sustained from direct axial load onto a clenched wrist. It manifests with wrist swelling, ulnar wrist pain, and tenderness over the hamate. Although this patient has wrist pain and swelling after an axial load injury, the fact that her injury involved hyperextension make a hamate fracture less likely. Moreover, the x-ray shows no fracture at the hamate.

