### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Refer for total hip arthroplasty** - Referral for total hip arthroplasty is recommended in patients with hip OA when conservative measures (physical therapy, exercise, weight loss, pain medication) have been exhausted, there is evidence of advanced OA (e.g., severe pain, radiological signs of osteoarthritis), and symptoms impact the patient's daily life significantly, as seen here. In addition, this patient has no evidence of contraindications to surgery (e.g., active infection, major medical illness). Intraarticular glucocorticoid injections can be used as second-line therapy for short-term pain relief but are not routinely recommended.

Image File: 1062-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6044b3093572f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Refer for arthroscopic hip debridement** - Arthroscopic hip debridement may be used in the treatment of a labral tear or femoroacetabular impingement of the hip, but it is generally not recommended in the treatment of either hip or knee OA because of the lack of evidence supporting its benefits.

**B - Perform intraarticular glucocorticoid injections** - Intraarticular glucocorticoid injections may be administered in patients with severe OA to provide short-term pain relief. However, they are not a long-term option and are not routinely recommended for the treatment of hip OA. Therefore, another step in management is more appropriate for this patient at this point.

**C - Prescribe walking aids** - Walking aids, such as a walker, cane, or crutches (used on the healthy, unaffected side) may be used in patients with hip OA and severe pain and/or as fall prevention. However, there is no evidence that walking aids reduce pain in patients with hip OA, nor are walking aids a good option for patients like this one, who are physically active.

**D - Prescribe fentanyl patch** - Fentanyl patches have a high analgesic potency and are used to treat insufficiently controlled chronic pain, which is seen in this patient. While nonopioid analgesics in conjunction with nonpharmacologic measures are an important part of pain management in patients with OA, opioids should generally be avoided, especially as a long-term solution, because of potential adverse effects (e.g., dizziness, nausea, addictive potential).

