### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - CT scan of the cervical spine** - CT scan is the test of choice to rule out cervical spine injury in adult trauma patients. Imaging is required to rule out cervical spine injury in trauma patients with focal neurologic deficits, altered mental status/intoxication, neck pain/midline tenderness, or distracting injuries (e.g., this patient's suspected wrist and rib fractures). A cervical spine injury can be ruled out clinically only if all of these criteria are absent.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - X-ray of the chest** - Chest x-ray is frequently used in blunt chest trauma to assess for hemothorax, pneumothorax, or rib fracture. This patient is hemodynamically stable with clear lung sounds and normal respiratory status, meaning a hemothorax/pneumothorax is unlikely. Although he has local chest wall tenderness, which may be caused by a rib fracture, the patient needs to be evaluated for more severe injuries before a rib fracture should be ruled out.

Image File: 1065-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e8dfdb2d5566.jpg

**B - CT scan of the abdomen** - An abdominal CT scan is an important diagnostic tool for patients with blunt abdominal trauma. Although this patient fell from a great height, he does not show any signs of an abdominal injury, is hemodynamically stable, and has a negative FAST scan. Therefore, a CT scan is not indicated at this time.

Image File: 1065-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_604b657dd7512.jpg

**C - X-ray of the neck** - X-ray of the neck can be used initially to assess for cervical spine injury in children. Cervical spine injury must be ruled out in this patient, but another test is preferred. In adults, especially those at high risk for cervical spine injury (e.g., falls from a great height), the positioning necessary for obtaining good images on x-ray and increased neck soft tissue make cervical spine radiography less sensitive.

Image File: 1065-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94dc7d5d.jpg

**D - MRI scan of the head** - MRI of the brain is frequently used to assess for various intracranial pathologies in nonemergency settings. This patient has normal mental status, no focal neurologic deficits, and no cranial tenderness, so an intracranial pathology is unlikely. Additionally, if this patient did require brain imaging, a noncontrast head CT scan would be the initial test of choice because it is more readily available and results can be rapidly acquired.

Image File: 1065-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55590ee18290f.jpg

**F - Diagnostic peritoneal lavage** - Diagnostic peritoneal lavage (DPL) is a procedure that can be used in patients with blunt abdominal trauma to determine the presence of blood within the peritoneum. DPL should only be considered in hemodynamically unstable patients who have an inconclusive FAST scan. This patient, however, is hemodynamically stable, has no evidence of abdominal injury, and a FAST scan is negative for free intraperitoneal fluid.

Image File: 1065-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_604b657dd7512.jpg

**G - X-ray of the right wrist** - An x-ray of the wrist can be used to rule out an underlying fracture. Although this patient has signs of potential wrist fracture (wrist pain, tenderness, limited range of motion), more severe injuries must be ruled out first. The patient's wrist will eventually require imaging and treatment. In trauma resuscitation, management of nonlethal injuries such as a wrist fracture is often deferred until all life threats are stabilized. Until that time, fractured limbs are often splinted for patient comfort.

Image File: 1065-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_50e04ce8c1685.jpg

