### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Monosodium urate crystals** - Tumor lysis syndrome occurs when there is widespread lysis of cancer cells (e.g., from chemotherapy), resulting in the release of large amounts of nucleic acid, which is further broken down to monosodium urate (uric acid). The subsequent hyperuricemia can lead to the precipitation of monosodium urate crystals in the renal tubules and joints, causing acute kidney injury and triggering gout, as seen in this patient. Arthrocentesis of the involved joints would reveal needle-shaped, negatively birefringent crystals.

Image File: 1066-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5da87c48eb043.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Granulocytes with cytoplasmic inclusion bodies** - Granulocytes with cytoplasmic inclusion bodies, also known as ragocytes, would be consistent with autoimmune-related arthropathies, including rheumatoid arthritis and SLE. They are not seen in tumor lysis syndrome.

**C - Calcium pyrophosphate crystals** - Deposition of calcium pyrophosphate crystals within the joint space is the pathomechanism of calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease. Arthritis in calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease commonly affects only one joint (usually the knee), and arthroscopy typically reveals rhomboid-shaped, positively birefringent crystals. The disease is usually idiopathic, but can be caused by hemochromatosis, hyperparathyroidism, or trauma to the joint. Calcium pyrophosphate crystal deposition is not a sequela of tumor lysis syndrome.

Image File: 1066-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59a0074210b03.jpg

**D - Calcium phosphate crystals** - Calcium phosphate crystals are non-birefringent, globular crystals associated with degenerative joint diseases, such as osteoarthritis. Patients with this condition have chronic joint disease of the weight-bearing joints and morning stiffness lasting less than 30 minutes. While tumor lysis syndrome can lead to deposition of calcium phosphate crystals in the kidneys (predisposing to acute kidney injury), deposition of these crystals in the joints is not a sequela of tumor lysis syndrome.

**E - Gram-negative diplococci** - Gram-negative diplococci in the synovial fluid culture would be concerning for gonococcal arthritis, a type of oligoarthritis commonly seen in sexually active adults. It presents either as monoarthritis (e.g., of the knee), or as polyarthralgia with dermatitis and tenosynovitis. Tumor lysis syndrome does not predispose to gonococcal arthritis.

**F - Gram-positive cocci in clusters** - Gram-positive cocci in clusters in the joint space would be consistent with septic arthritis due to Staphylococcus aureus. Patients typically present with acute monoarticular joint pain, swelling, and fever. Risk factors include prosthetic joints, skin infection, or IV drug abuse. Tumor lysis syndrome does not predispose to septic arthritis.

