### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Synovial fluid drainage and cefazolin therapy** - If septic arthritis is suspected, prompt synovial fluid drainage should be conducted (via arthrocentesis), followed by empiric therapy to minimize the risk of long-term joint complications. Antibiotics should cover S. aureus, the most common cause of septic arthritis. An appropriate antibiotic for this child, who has no history of hospitalization and therefore is unlikely to have an MRSA infection, would be parenteral cefazolin.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bed rest and acetaminophen** - Bed rest and acetaminophen are used to treat transient synovitis, a temporary inflammation of the hip joint common in children that is often preceded by an upper respiratory tract infection. Transient synovitis manifests with pain in the groin, hip, and/or knee, as well as a decreased range of motion in the hip because of pain, which is seen in this patient. However, the laboratory and imaging findings in this patient are more consistent with septic arthritis.

**B - Vancomycin therapy** - Vancomycin would be part of the empiric treatment for septic arthritis if this patient had a history of recent hospitalization or lived in an area with high MRSA prevalence, which is not the case here. In addition, rapid reduction of both bacterial activity and pressure within the infected joint are important if long-term complications are to be avoided, and antibiotic therapy solely targets bacterial activity.

**D - MRI of the hip** - An MRI of the hip provides high-resolution images that are particularly useful in investigating soft tissue pathologies or if the diagnosis is unclear. However, the clinical picture in this patient is clear enough to warrant prompt initiation of therapy for septic arthritis first.

**E - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole therapy** - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is commonly prescribed for urinary tract infections caused by E. coli and other gram-negative bacteria, as well as prophylaxis for opportunistic infections in HIV/AIDS patients. It is not commonly used in septic arthritis, which requires an antibiotic with gram-positive coverage that includes S. aureus.

**F - Arthroscopic drainage of the hip** - Arthroscopy may be used for septic arthritis if the infection is located in a joint that is difficult to aspirate, such as the hip. However, arthroscopic drainage would only allow for joint decompression in this patient and would not treat the underlying infection, which should also be addressed to avoid long-term complications. Moreover, a less invasive approach should be considered in this child.

**G - Bone biopsy** - A bone biopsy would be indicated if imaging studies showed radiographic signs of malignancy (e.g., periosteal reactions such as a sunburst appearance or Codman triangle). However, the widened acetabular space seen on this patient's x-ray indicates excess fluid (e.g., an abscess) rather than malignancy. Since his presentation and labwork already indicate septic arthritis, a bone biopsy would not aid diagnosis or treatment.

**H - Doxycycline therapy** - Doxycycline is the treatment of choice for Lyme disease and can be used in children < 8 years of age for short durations (i.e., ≤ 21 days). Although Lyme arthritis may manifest with hip pain in disseminated disease and this patient's camping trip is a risk factor for tick bites, his acute presentation, high fever, and imaging findings are not consistent with this condition.

