### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - CSF cryptococcal antigen testing** - This patient's subacute low-grade fevers and headaches, in combination with a low CD4+ T-lymphocyte count, are suspicious for a diagnosis of cryptococcal meningitis, an opportunistic infection and AIDS-defining illness caused by Cryptococcus neoformans. Neuroimaging and lumbar puncture are routinely obtained in the evaluation of this condition to rule out other conditions (e.g., mass lesions) and to confirm this diagnosis. A diagnosis of cryptococcal meningitis can be confirmed with serum and/or CSF cryptococcal antigen testing, both of which are highly sensitive and specific. Cryptococcal culture of CSF is the gold standard for diagnosis but takes 3–7 days to result. Treatment of cryptococcal meningitis includes an induction phase with amphotericin B and flucytosine followed by consolidation therapy with fluconazole.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - CSF VDRL testing** - CSF VDRL testing can be used to confirm a diagnosis of neurosyphilis, a condition that can develop late in the course of Treponema pallidum infection. Neurosyphilis can manifest with fevers, headaches, and CSF analysis that shows a lymphocytic-predominant cell count and an increased protein concentration. However, this patient does not have any history of earlier stages of syphilis (e.g., chancre, disseminated maculopapular rash). In addition, neuroimaging of patients with neurosyphilis typically shows abnormalities, such as enhancement of various brain structures (e.g., meninges, spinal roots) or hypodensities (due to chronic infarction), none of which is seen in this patient.

**C - CSF Gram stain** - CSF Gram stain can be used to confirm a diagnosis of bacterial meningitis, which can manifest with fevers, headaches, and CSF analysis that show elevated opening pressure, increased protein concentration, and decreased glucose concentration. However, bacterial meningitis typically has a more acute, severe presentation and causes neck rigidity, photophobia, nausea, vomiting, and seizures, none of which is seen in this patient. In addition, the CSF leukocyte count in patients with bacterial meningitis is often > 1,000/mm3 and has a neutrophilic predominance, in contrast to this patient's low leukocyte count with a lymphocytic predominance.

**D - CSF cytology** - CSF cytology is used to confirm a diagnosis of CNS malignancy (e.g., primary CNS lymphoma). This patient's history of HIV infection with a low CD4+ T-lymphocyte count increases his risk of developing primary CNS lymphoma, which can manifest with headaches and CSF analysis that shows an increased protein concentration. However, this condition also typically manifests with neuropsychiatric symptoms, focal neurologic deficits, and a solitary mass with surrounding edema on neuroimaging, none of which is seen in this patient.

**E - Serology for anti-toxoplasma IgG antibodies** - Serologic testing for anti-toxoplasma IgG antibodies can confirm a diagnosis of cerebral toxoplasmosis, an opportunistic infection caused by Toxoplasma gondii that can manifest with fevers, headaches, and CSF analysis that shows an increased protein concentration. However, this condition also typically manifests with seizures, focal neurologic deficits, and multiple ring-enhancing lesions in the cerebrum and/or basal ganglia on neuroimaging, none of which is seen in this patient.

**F - CSF acid-fast stain** - CSF acid-fast stain can be used to confirm a diagnosis of tuberculous meningitis, which can manifest with fevers, headaches, and CSF analysis that shows elevated opening pressure, a lymphocytic-predominant cell count, an increased protein concentration, and a decreased glucose concentration. However, tuberculous meningitis typically causes focal neurologic deficits (e.g., cranial nerve palsies), which are not seen in this patient. In addition, patients with tuberculosis usually have pulmonary manifestations, including cough, hemoptysis, and an abnormal chest x-ray with cavitations.

**G - CSF PCR testing for JC virus DNA** - CSF PCR testing for JC virus DNA is used to confirm a diagnosis of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), which is caused by the reactivation of latent JC virus in patients who are immunocompromised. This condition has various manifestations but most commonly causes altered mental status, motor deficits, ataxia, visual deficits, and hypodense areas in regions of white matter on CT scan, none of which is seen in this patient.

