### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Pyrimethamine, sulfadiazine, and leucovorin** - Treatment of cerebral toxoplasmosis consists of pyrimethamine, sulfadiazine, and leucovorin (folinic acid). Pyrimethamine and sulfadiazine inhibit folic acid metabolism in T. gondii, while folinic acid is administered to alleviate myelotoxic side effects. Cerebral toxoplasmosis is a common AIDS-defining condition that presents with fever, impaired vigilance, and seizures. Multiple ring-enhancing lesions that involve the basal ganglia on neuroimaging are also strongly indicative of cerebral toxoplasmosis in an immunocompromised patient with CD4 count < 100/mm3. Therefore, this patient should also undergo HIV testing to confirm the diagnosis and antiretroviral therapy (cART) should be initiated.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Amphotericin B and flucytosine** - Amphotericin B and flucytosine are antifungal agents used to treat cryptococcal meningitis, which typically occurs in patients with HIV infection and has a subacute onset with low-grade fever, fatigue, and headaches. Typically, cryptococcal meningitis is diagnosed with serum antigen testing and CSF analysis and culture. Although this patient is at risk of cryptococcal infection, the ring-enhancing lesions make this diagnosis unlikely. The more likely diagnosis is toxoplasmosis, which is caused by a protozoa; these antifungals would not be effective in its treatment.

**C - Chemotherapy and radiation** - Chemotherapy and radiation are used to treat primary CNS lymphoma, which typically presents with headache, neurologic deficits, personality changes, and, less commonly, seizures. CNS lymphoma is the second most common cause of ring-enhancing cerebral lesions in patients with HIV infection. But multiple ring-enhancing lesions as seen on this CT scan are characteristic for cerebral toxoplasmosis, which is the most common cause of ring-enhancing lesions in patients with HIV infection. CNS lymphoma is characterized by solitary lesions on neuroimaging and positive EBV DNA in CSF analysis. The diagnosis is confirmed with biopsy.

**D - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole** - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is an antibiotic combination that is used as chemoprophylaxis for Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) and Toxoplasmosis gondii reactivation in individuals with HIV. It is also the drug of choice for nocardiosis. Disseminated nocardiosis can cause ring-enhancing cerebral lesions on CT scan, but it is rare and not the most common cause of these lesions in patients with HIV infection.

**E - Ceftriaxone and vancomycin** - A combination of vancomycin and ceftriaxone is used to empirically treat bacterial meningitis in adults < 50 years. Although bacterial meningitis may present with an altered mental status and seizures, a ring-enhancing cerebral lesion is not consistent with this diagnosis. It would be consistent, though, with a brain abscess, which may occur as a complication of meningitis and have a similar presentation, especially in immunocompromised patients like this one. However, multiple lesions and involvement of the basal ganglia are more indicative of cerebral toxoplasmosis, which is also the most common cause of ring-enhancing cerebral lesions in patients with HIV infection. Regardless, if a brain abscess was most suspected, empirical antibiotic treatment would consist of a third-generation cephalosporin, metronidazole, and possibly vancomycin. Additionally, surgical drainage and biopsy should be conducted in any abscesses greater than 2.5 cm.

**F - CT-guided stereotactic aspiration** - CT-guided stereotactic aspiration may be indicated in the management of cerebral abscess, CNS lymphoma, or cerebral toxoplasmosis, which are the most important differential diagnoses of ring-enhancing cerebral lesions in patients with HIV infection. Distinguishing between these conditions is difficult because clinical presentation and neuroimaging are very similar. However, multiple lesions and involvement of the basal ganglia are more indicative of cerebral toxoplasmosis, which is also the most common cause. CT-guided aspiration would only be performed for suspected cerebral toxoplasmosis if this patient does not respond to initial therapy for 2 weeks.

**G - Albendazole** - Albendazole is an antihelminthic drug used in the treatment of neurocysticercosis. Neurocysticercosis is most common in patients from developing countries and is caused by ingesting food or water contaminated with eggs of the Taenia solium tapeworm. Symptoms depend on the location of cysts and include neurological deficits and focal seizures, as well as myalgia, palpable subcutaneous cysts, and eye pain. CT scan typically shows multiple, small (< 1 cm) cystic lesions. This patient is not from a developing country and does not have compatible symptoms, making cysticercosis an unlikely diagnosis.

**H - Glucocorticoids** - Glucocorticoids are used in the treatment of multiple sclerosis, which is characterized by relapsing and remitting episodes of impaired vision (retrobulbar neuritis) and focal neurological deficits. It does not typically cause seizures. Although the ring-enhancing lesions seen on the CT scan may resemble sclerotic plaques typical for MS, the patient's history and clinical findings do not support this diagnosis.

