### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Heart failure** - Heart failure is the most common cause of death in patients with Friedreich ataxia. Almost all patients (> 95%) with FA have abnormal cardiologic findings, the most common being (usually hypertrophic) cardiomyopathy and/or arrhythmia. The degree of cardiac dysfunction does not appear to correlate with neurologic disease progression. Most patients with FA do not live past the age of 30–40.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Posterior fossa tumors** - Bilateral vestibular schwannomas (in the posterior fossa) are characteristic of neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF-2). Although this patient has a family history of schwannoma and the condition also causes severe ataxia that may require use a wheelchair, patients with NF-2 usually have severe hearing loss due to CN VIII compression. Moreover, NF-2 would not explain this patient's musculoskeletal abnormalities.

**B - Renal cell carcinoma** - Patients with von Hippel-Lindau disease are at increased risk of (often bilateral) renal cell carcinoma. The hallmark feature of VHL disease is central nervous system hemangioblastomas, particularly in the cerebellum and brainstem. While an infratentorial hemangioblastoma could cause progressive ataxia, dysarthria, weakness, sensory loss, and hyporeflexia, VHL would not cause this patient's skeletal changes (i.e., kyphoscoliosis and hammer toes).

**C - Liver failure** - The majority of patients with untreated Wilson's disease die of acute liver failure or cirrhosis. While patients with Wilson's disease often have neurologic abnormalities such as ataxia and dysarthria, they also have signs of liver disease (e.g., jaundice, hepatomegaly, abdominal pain) and characteristic ophthalmic findings (Kayser-Fleischer rings). Moreover, Wilson's disease would not explain this patient's musculoskeletal abnormalities. Finally, Wilson's disease is associated with hyperreflexia, not hyporeflexia.

Image File: 1073-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57ac391801a6f.jpg

**E - Leukemia** - Patients with ataxia-telangiectasia are at increased risk of malignancy (usually leukemia or lymphoma). Patients with AT present with ataxia and oculocutaneous telangiectasias, as well as gaze abnormalities (most often oculomotor apraxia), around the age of 5 years. While this patient has an abnormal gait and abnormal eye movements, she is much older than would be expected for AT diagnosis, lacks telangiectasias and gaze abnormalities, and has musculoskeletal abnormalities that are not seen in AT.

Image File: 1073-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_576ff6fb2d3a7.jpg

**F - Aspiration pneumonia** - Patients with Friedreich ataxia are at increased risk of aspiration pneumonia if they have bulbar cranial nerve involvement, which leads to impaired airway protection. While this patient has evidence of cranial nerve involvement (dysarthria), aspiration pneumonia is often curable, making another cause of death more likely in a patient with FA.

**G - Hypoglycemia** - Patients with Friedreich's ataxia are at increased risk of hyperglycemia and diabetes mellitus. If this patient were to develop diabetes mellitus in the future and overdose on an anti-diabetic agent, this could cause hypoglycemia and death. However, another cause of death is much more likely.

