### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Ibuprofen therapy** - NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen, are the treatment of choice for acute episodes of TTH. However, frequent and excessive use of analgesic drugs (> 15 days per month) must be avoided as it can lead to medication overuse headache. While the exact pathophysiology of TTH remains unknown, triggering factors, such as lack of sleep, stress, anxiety, and depression, have been identified. Nonpharmacologic treatment strategies (e.g., lifestyle modification, cognitive-behavioral therapy, relaxation training) should therefore be considered in addition to medication. A headache diary can be helpful to establish the diagnosis and guide management.

Image File: 1075-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e58e91a223ca.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Carbamazepine therapy** - Carbamazepine is the drug of choice for the long-term treatment of trigeminal neuralgia, a condition characterized by very short attacks of severe shooting unilateral pain in the area of one or more branches of the trigeminal nerve. Attacks occur up to 100 times a day and can be triggered by stimuli like chewing. This patient presents with typical features of episodic TTH, for which carbamazepine is not indicated.

Image File: 1075-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58a42b039229d.jpg

**B - Amitryptiline therapy** - Amitriptyline is the prophylactic treatment of choice for chronic TTH, which is defined as headache episodes occurring at least 15 days per month for more than 3 months, and can be considered for episodic TTH if the patient has ≥ 10 episodes per month. This patient reports only one episode of TTH per month, so prophylactic pharmacological treatment is not warranted at this point. Moreover, amitriptyline is not indicated for acute treatment of TTH.

**C - Sumatriptan therapy** - Triptans, such as sumatriptan, are effective in the acute treatment of both migraine and cluster headache attacks. Migraine is characterized by recurrent episodes of intense unilateral, throbbing headache that may be preceded by an aura (e.g., visual disturbances) and is frequently accompanied by nausea, vomiting, photophobia, and/or phonophobia. Cluster headache manifests with recurrent, 15-minute to 3-hour attacks of agonizing, strictly unilateral headaches in the periorbital and forehead region in combination with ipsilateral symptoms of increased cranial autonomic activity (e.g., lacrimation, conjunctival injection). This patient presents with typical features of episodic TTH, for which sumatriptan is generally not indicated.

Image File: 1075-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d78acef94907.jpg

**E - Oxygen therapy** - High-flow oxygen therapy with 100% O2 is the treatment of choice for cluster headache attacks. Cluster headache manifests with recurrent, 15-minute to 3-hour attacks of agonizing, unilateral headaches in the periorbital and forehead region in combination with ipsilateral symptoms of increased cranial autonomic activity (e.g., lacrimation, conjunctival injection); up to 8 attacks per day are possible. This patient presents with typical features of episodic TTH, for which oxygen therapy is not indicated.

Image File: 1075-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d78a7054c922.jpg

