### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Chloroquine retinopathy** - At higher doses, chloroquine is known to cause visual disturbances and may lead to irreversible retinopathy, the key fundoscopic finding being bull's eye maculopathy. For early detection of chloroquine retinopathy, all patients given high doses of chloroquine should undergo regular ophthalmic examinations. In this patient, treatment with chloroquine should be discontinued to prevent further eye damage.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Retinitis pigmentosa** - Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) may be associated with other neurosensory or developmental disorders. While RP can present with night-blindness and floaters, its onset is usually earlier and there is typically a positive family history. Additionally, fundoscopy in RP shows bone spicule formation, a waxy optic nerve appearance, and retinal arteriolar attenuation. RP is therefore an unlikely diagnosis.

**C - Methanol toxicity** - Methanol toxicity refers to the clinical features seen after ingestion of methanol, which may include optic neuropathy associated with vision problems and blindness. Symptoms begin 12–24 hours after ingestion and can include perceived flashes of light, blurring of vision, abdominal pain, nausea, headache, and altered mental status. Methanol rarely causes the macular damage seen in this patient. Although this woman drinks home-distilled liquor regularly, she has been symptomatic for over 6 months and has no other systemic signs. Methanol toxicity is therefore an unlikely diagnosis.

**D - Diabetic retinopathy** - This patient is at increased risk for diabetic retinopathy, as she has type 2 diabetes mellitus. Although diabetic retinopathy can also present with floaters, blurred vision, and visual field defects, fundoscopy would typically show microaneurysms, hemorrhages, cotton wool spots, macular edema, or retinal vessel proliferation, but not bull's eye macular changes.

**E - Angle-closure glaucoma** - While this patient does have some risk factors for angle-closure glaucoma (female sex, older age, positive family history, use of citalopram causing mydriasis), glaucoma typically causes a hollowed-out (cupping) of the optic nerve, not bull's eye maculopathy. Individuals with angle-closure glaucoma would also present with a sudden onset of symptoms that includes unilaterally reddened and painful eye, headache, vomiting, and a nonreactive pupil. Moreover, floaters (black spots in the field of vision) are not a typical finding in individuals with angle-closure glaucoma.

**F - Age-related macular degeneration** - Age-related macular degeneration (AMD), which is the leading cause of blindness in the US, commonly affects individuals > 55 years. Although it often presents with difficulty adapting to changes in lighting, it would typically cause central vision impairment, which is not the case in this patient. Moreover, fundoscopy of patients would typically reveal small, discrete, yellowish-white spots (drusen) in the macula in the case of dry AMD (80% of cases) or proliferation of abnormal new blood vessels in the case of wet AMD (much less common).

**G - Vitamin A deficiency** - Vitamin A deficiency is a leading cause of blindness in developing countries, but it is rarely seen in developed countries. Vitamin A deficiency may cause night blindness, but it would typically present with keratomalacia and Bitot's spots. Although this woman's alcohol intake is a risk factor for vitamin A deficiency, her conjunctiva and cornea seem to be normal, which makes vitamin A deficiency an unlikely diagnosis.

