### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Herpes zoster keratitis** - Herpes zoster keratitis typically starts with a prodrome (fever, headache, malaise), followed by unilateral painful impaired vision with reduced corneal sensation and vesicles in the area innervated by the ophthalmic nerve (forehead, bridge, and tip of the nose). Fluorescein staining typically first shows punctate lesions on the corneal surface that evolve into dendritic lesions after 4–6 days, as seen in this case. Treatment consists of oral acyclovir, valacyclovir, or famciclovir with concomitant use of topical steroid eye drops.

Image File: 1077-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_570f501964cf0.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pseudomonas keratitis** - Pseudomonas keratitis is the most common form of bacterial keratitis in contact lens users and presents with rapid progression of painful blurry vision, purulent discharge, and round corneal ulceration. Although this patient has painful blurry vision, she has a dendritic ulcer with purulent discharge and does not wear contact lenses, making this diagnosis unlikely. It also would not explain the vesicles.

Image File: 1077-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55590ee182ad7.jpg

**B - Anterior uveitis** - Anterior uveitis can be caused by infectious agents (e.g., HSV, CMV), or autoimmune processes (e.g., Crohn disease) and manifests with a reduced vision, eye pain, and conjunctival erythema as seen in this patient. Although this patient's Crohn disease puts her at risk of developing anterior uveitis, slit lamp examination would show inflammatory cells in the anterior chamber, which is absent in this patient.

Image File: 1077-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5639fcbd76c06.jpg

**C - Orbital cellulitis** - Orbital cellulitis is characterized by acute onset of malaise, fever and eyelid erythema and swelling, which is also present in this patient. But she is lacking other typical symptoms of orbital cellulitis, such as exophthalmos, ophthalmoplegia and pain with eye movements. This condition would also not explain the patient's vesicles.

Image File: 1077-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5769bf9d2f623.jpg

**E - Angle-closure glaucoma** - Angle-closure glaucoma would cause unilateral red, hard, and severely painful eye, frontal headaches, vomiting, nausea, steamy cornea and blurred vision. This patient has painful unilateral blurry vision but presents with facial skin changes and dendritic lesions on the corneal surface, which would not be explained glaucoma.

Image File: 1077-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e4a5b0c536b7.jpg

**F - Herpes simplex keratitis** - HSV keratitis causes unilateral ocular irritation, eye pain with reduced corneal sensation, skin vesicles, and dendritic ulceration on fluorescein staining, which are also present in this patient. However, vesicles in HSV keratitis mainly occur at the ipsilateral eyelid and would not occur throughout the dermatome of the ophthalmic nerve (forehead, bridge, and tip of the nose).

