### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - CT scan of the head** - Neuroimaging is the most appropriate next step in management in patients with an unprovoked first seizure if an intracranial process (e.g., hemorrhage) is suspected. This patient's protracted altered mental status (continued disorientation, headache) in the setting of a fall raises concern for intracranial hemorrhage (ICH). A noncontrast CT scan of the head is indicated to assess for ICH. After ruling out any life-threatening bleeding via CT, the patient should also receive an EEG to assess whether his altered mental status is a result of continued seizure activity and an MRI to identify anatomic causes of the seizures.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Lorazepam therapy** - Intravenous lorazepam is a first-line treatment option for patients in status epilepticus, which is defined as ≥ 5 min of continuous seizures or ≥ 2 seizures with consciousness not being fully regained in the interictal period. This patient's seizure has stopped, however, and he has already regained consciousness.

**B - Reassurance and follow-up** - Some patients who have a first unprovoked seizure can be discharged with close outpatient follow-up. This patient has persistent altered mental status and a history of a fall. Therefore, it is important to rule out any underlying etiologies (e.g., brain tumor) and life-threatening conditions (e.g., brain hemorrhage, brain abscess, stroke). Determining the underlying pathology allows for the likelihood of additional seizures to be evaluated and the appropriate treatment to be chosen (e.g., antiepileptic therapy, brain surgery).

**C - MRI of the head** - MRI of the head is the preferred test to identify anatomic causes of seizures with high sensitivity. It is an appropriate diagnostic test when the patient has a normal neurologic examination in the recovery phase after the seizure. However, this patient's persistent altered mental status in the setting of a fall raises suspicion for another intracranial process.

**D - Lumbar puncture** - A lumbar puncture is indicated for the diagnosis of acute infectious processes of the CNS (e.g., meningitis, encephalitis). Although CNS infections can manifest with seizures and prolonged altered mental status, they are usually associated with fever, focal neurologic deficits, meningism, or leukocytosis, all of which are absent in this patient. In addition, patients with altered mental status require testing to rule out increased intracranial pressure before receiving a lumbar puncture (to reduce the risk of brain herniation).

**E - Lamotrigine therapy** - Lamotrigine is a first-line antiepileptic drug for the long-term treatment of epilepsy. After a first seizure, antiepileptic drugs are only initiated if there is a positive family history of epilepsy, an abnormal neurodevelopmental status, or abnormal findings on brain neuroimaging or EEG (e.g., hippocampal sclerosis, characteristic spike‑wave patterns). In all other cases, antiepileptic therapy is usually deferred until a second unprovoked seizure occurs.

**G - Electroencephalography** - Obtaining an electroencephalogram (EEG) is a crucial step in diagnosing seizure disorders and in determining the need for anticonvulsive treatment. The urgency of the EEG varies according to the individual patient's presentation. While this patient should be evaluated with an EEG at some point, his presentation in the setting of his fall raises concern for a different intracranial process that requires a more urgent next step.

