### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Acute stress disorder** - This patient's symptoms and time course (< 1 month) are diagnostic of acute stress disorder following her traumatic exposure. This diagnosis is similar to PTSD and differs only in time course; per DSM-5 criteria, the diagnosis of PTSD requires symptoms to be present for > 1 month.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Adjustment disorder** - Adjustment disorder is characterized by emotional and behavioral changes within 6 months of a stressful event. However, this patient meets criteria for a different disorder related to her trauma.

**C - Post-traumatic stress disorder** - Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), which can occur following sexual violence, would present with the same symptoms as this patient is experiencing. However, per DSM-5 criteria, PTSD can only be diagnosed if the patient's symptoms persist for > 1 month. The symptoms in this patient have only been present for the past 3 weeks.

**D - Major depressive disorder** - Major depressive disorder can be precipitated by a stressful event, and is characterized by the cardinal features of depressed mood and anhedonia. While she does exhibit some features of MDD (insomnia, depressed mood), this patient's symptoms are suggestive of an alternate diagnosis.

**E - Persistent complex bereavement disorder** - Persistent complex bereavement disorder can result in psychological distress, negative mood, anger/irritability, avoidance behavior, and intrusive thoughts, as seen in this patient. However, bereavement refers to a response to the death of a person with whom the patient had a close personal relationship. Moreover, the symptoms must be present for at least 12 months before a diagnosis of persistent complex bereavement disorder can be made.

**F - Adverse effect of medication** - Levothyroxine, when taken in excess or inappropriately dosed, can cause symptoms of hyperthyroidism. While it could explain her symptoms of palpitations, diaphoresis, and irritability, her history of a recent traumatic event are suggestive of an alternate diagnosis.

