### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Intravenous prochlorperazine** - Intravenous or intramuscular antiemetics such as prochlorperazine or chlorpromazine can be used as monotherapy for acute migraine attacks, especially if the migraine is associated with vomiting. These agents act as antagonists at central dopamine receptors, which explains their antiemetic effects. They have a direct abortive effect on migraine symptoms and they facilitate absorption of oral medications (e.g., NSAIDs). Oral antiemetics, on the other hand, are not as effective as monotherapy for acute migraine attacks. To prevent extrapyramidal symptoms (e.g., akathisia), which are a potential side effect of these agents, intravenous diphenhydramine can be added.

Image File: 1082-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5efc86039e129.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intranasal dihydroergotamine and subcutaneous sumatriptan** - Dihydroergotamine and sumatriptan are both indicated as abortive drugs for patients who have failed NSAID monotherapy. However, these two drugs should never be combined because they both have vasoconstrictive effects. Combining ergotamine and triptans can result in complications such as stroke or myocardial infarction.

**B - Oral tramadol** - Opioids (e.g., tramadol) are only used as a last resort abortive treatment for severe migraines. This patient's migraines are mild-to-moderate and she has not yet exhausted first-line abortive treatment options. Also, tramadol is highly emetogenic and therefore should be avoided in this patient with vomiting.

**C - Intranasal zolmitriptan and oral amitriptyline** - Triptans (e.g., zolmitriptan) are a first-line abortive migraine treatment, and tricyclic antidepressants (e.g., amitriptyline) are first-line agents for migraine prophylaxis. Zolmitriptan is appropriate in this scenario, but migraine prophylaxis is indicated only for patients with frequent and/or severe attacks who have failed abortive therapy. This patient has had only two mild-to-moderate attacks and she has not exhausted abortive therapy options, so prophylactic therapy would not yet be indicated.

**D - Oral verapamil** - Calcium channel blockers (e.g., verapamil) are used for migraine prophylaxis in patients with frequent and/or severe attacks who have failed abortive therapy. This patient has had only two mild-to-moderate attacks and she has not exhausted abortive therapy options, so prophylactic therapy would not yet be indicated.

**F - Oral propranolol** - β-Blockers (e.g., propranolol) are the first-line option for migraine prophylaxis. Migraine prophylaxis is indicated for patients with frequent and/or severe attacks who have failed abortive therapy. This patient has had only two mild-to-moderate attacks, and she has not exhausted abortive therapy options, so prophylactic therapy is not yet indicated.

**G - Oral ketorolac and oral ergotamine** - Ergotamine is used as an abortive drug for patients with severe migraine attacks and can be combined with NSAIDs (e.g., ketorolac) for greater efficacy. This patient's migraines are mild-to-moderate and associated with repeated vomiting, which would not be addressed adequately with this combination of oral drugs.

