### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Haloperidol** - High-potency antipsychotics such as haloperidol are the most common cause of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS), but low-potency or atypical antipsychotics, as well as antiemetics like metoclopramide have also been associated with NMS. While symptoms usually develop during the first 2 weeks of therapy, as seen in this patient, NMS may also develop after years of continuous therapy and without any associated increase of dose. Nonetheless, higher doses or switching antipsychotics are risk factors for the development of NMS.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Atropine** - Atropine does not cause NMS, but it may induce anticholinergic syndrome, which can, like NMS, cause tachycardia, hyperthermia with flushed skin, and confusion. However, muscle rigidity and an associated increase in CK levels are not associated with anticholinergic syndrome. Furthermore, anticholinergic syndrome does not cause diaphoresis, as seen in this patient. Instead, one of its hallmark features is dry skin due to anhidrosis.

**B - Succinylcholine** - Succinylcholine is not a cause of NMS. However, an important complication of succinylcholine therapy is malignant hyperthermia (MH). Clinically, MH can present similarly to NMS with hyperthermia, severe muscle rigidity, and autonomic instability, but the progression is typically hyperacute over minutes to hours, which is not the case in this patient. In addition, MH is usually triggered by volatile anesthetics or succinylcholine during anesthesia, which this patient has not recently undergone.

**C - Phenelzine** - Phenelzine is not associated with NMS; however, if combined with foods rich in tyramine (e.g., cheese or red wine), it can result in hypertensive crisis. While this patient has an elevated blood pressure, it is not in the range of hypertensive crisis (i.e., > 180/120 mmHg), ruling out this differential diagnosis.

**E - Dextroamphetamine** - Dextroamphetamine or other amphetamines do not cause NMS, but intoxication with these substances can present with similar symptoms of psychomotor agitation, hyperthermia, altered mental status, and autonomic instability. Rhabdomyolysis and transaminitis may also develop, but muscle rigidity and leukocytosis would not be expected. Also, the relatively slow progression of this patient's symptoms over the course of 16 hours suggests another diagnosis.

**F - Amitriptyline** - Amitriptyline is not associated with NMS. It can, however, cause serotonin syndrome (SS), which shares many of the same features of NMS, including fever, diaphoresis, psychomotor agitation, and altered mental status. While this patient is taking fluoxetine, which puts her at risk of developing SS, the condition usually also presents with gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., diarrhea), and neurological findings of tremor, hyperreflexia, myoclonus, and/or ataxia, none of which this patient has. Moreover, serotonin syndrome does not cause leukocytosis.

