### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - REM sleep behavior disorder** - REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) is a type of parasomnia characterized by short (< 60 seconds) dream enactments (e.g., yelling, moving limbs, walking, punching) due to loss of REM sleep atonia, which may lead to injury to self or others. RBD most commonly occurs in the second half of the sleep cycle, when the proportion of REM sleep increases. Affected individuals are typically alert and orientated after awakening and remember their dreams. This condition often affects persons over the age of 50 and is more common in men. A diagnosis of RBD is made based on clinical history (i.e., dream enactment together with complex motor behaviors and/or vocalization) and is confirmed by polysomnography.

RBD can be idiopathic or due to psychiatric medications (e.g., antidepressants) or narcolepsy, but in older patients, it is most commonly a manifestation of neurodegenerative disorders (e.g., Parkinson disease, Lewy body dementia). This patient's shuffling gait may be a sign of early neurodegeneration.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Sleep terror disorder** - Sleep terror disorder is a NREM-related parasomnia that is characterized by abrupt, incomplete arousal from sleep followed by screaming and/or crying. However, this condition typically affects children and occurs during the first third of the sleep cycle. Moreover, affected individuals are difficult to rouse from sleep, show autonomic responses during episodes (e.g., mydriasis, sweating, tachycardia, tachypnea), and generally do not recall what they dreamed after awakening.

**C - Nightmare disorder** - Nightmare disorder is a type of parasomnia that occurs in REM sleep in the second or final third of the sleep cycle and typically affects adults. Individuals with a nightmare disorder can be easily roused during an episode and remember the disturbing dream vividly. However, because of REM sleep-induced skeletal muscle tone loss, vocalizations such as screaming or crying, motor activity, and sleep-related injuries are not expected. Moreover, nightmare disorders usually cause functional impairment or distress, whereas this patient feels refreshed after awakening.

**D - Sleepwalking disorder** - Sleepwalking disorder is a NREM-related parasomnia that is characterized by walking or performing other activities during nocturnal sleep. However, this condition is typically seen in young children and occurs during the first third of the sleep cycle. In addition, affected individuals are difficult to rouse during an episode of sleepwalking, and they often cannot remember the episode once fully awake. Moreover, violent behavior during episodes is rare.

**E - Normal aging** - Changes in sleep patterns, such as increased frequency of nighttime awakenings, occur as a part of the normal aging process and may be due to decreased time spent in deeper stages of sleep. However, these changes are typically accompanied by increased sleep latency and morning awakenings due to advanced circadian rhythms. Motor behavior and vocalizations such as screaming or crying are not associated with normal aging.

