### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Functional** - Functional tremor typically has an abrupt onset and is triggered by a physical (e.g., injury), somatic (e.g., migraine headache), or psychological event (e.g., death of a family member). This condition is characterized by quick progression to severe symptoms, significant functional disability, and changing of amplitude, frequency, and/or distribution of movement over time. Affected individuals may present with a complex combination of resting, postural, or action tremors that occur simultaneously. Functional tremor typically worsens under direct observation and diminishes with distraction (e.g., while working on the computer). The condition is often associated with psychiatric disorders (e.g., conversion disorder, anxiety disorder, depression). Patients are usually unresponsive to drugs for organic movement disorders, but may be responsive to placebo or psychotherapy (e.g., cognitive-behavioral therapy).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Essential** - Essential tremor is a postural tremor that typically affects the hands and head, worsens with voluntary movement and/or an anxious state, and is associated with an otherwise normal neurological examination. An essential tremor may be accompanied by an intention tremor and/or a resting tremor. However, essential tremor is most commonly symmetric and slowly progressive, whereas this patient presents with an asymmetric tremor that started promptly. Finally, this patient's tremor is of variable frequency, intensity, and affects various body parts, which is suggestive of another type of tremor.

**B - Resting** - Resting tremor occurs when the affected body part is fully relaxed and supported against gravity (e.g., hands resting on a table). This type of tremor is typically asymmetric, starts unilateral, affects the extremities, and worsens with emotional stress. Unlike this patient's tremor, which diminishes with distraction, resting tremor subsides with voluntary movements. Resting tremor is typically associated with Parkinson disease.

**C - Intention** - Intention tremor is most commonly caused by cerebellar lesions (e.g., stroke, trauma, multiple sclerosis). Patients present with a coarse hand tremor that is aggravated by goal-directed movements (i.e., increases in frequency during a finger-to-nose test). However, this patient lacks other features of cerebellar dysfunction (e.g., ataxia, gait instability, dysdiadochokinesia, dysmetria).

**E - Physiologic** - Physiologic tremor is a postural tremor that is enhanced with sympathetic stimulation (e.g., anxiety, stress) and usually affects the hands. While physiological tremor can be a manifestation of an underlying condition (e.g., hypoglycemia, hyperthyroidism, drug withdrawal), it is not caused by an underlying neurologic disease. This type of tremor is typically fine and symmetric, whereas this patient presents with an asymmetric, high-amplitude tremor.

