### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Intravenous ciprofloxacin** - High-dose IV ciprofloxacin is the first-line treatment of malignant otitis externa, which may occur in elderly patients with poorly controlled diabetes. Complications include facial nerve palsy and osteomyelitis of the skull base, possibly leading to extradural abscesses, cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, and paralysis of other cranial nerves. Surgical debridement should be performed in case of abscesses and for removal of bony sequestrum. Even with appropriate antibiotic therapy, the mortality rate is 10–20%.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral metronidazole** - Metronidazole is a drug with both antibacterial and antiprotozoal activity. It offers coverage against anaerobic bacteria. Although anaerobes may cause chronic suppurative otitis media, they are not involved in acute ear infections. Chronic suppurative otitis media may also present with ear discharge and hearing loss, but it does not cause ear pain or swelling of the external auditory canal.

Image File: 1100-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5718b771034cb.jpg

**B - Oral amoxicillin-clavulanate** - Amoxicillin-clavulanate is used as first-line therapy for acute otitis media (AOM) because of its efficacy against Streptococcus pneumoniae, the main cause of AOM. While AOM may also present with acute onset of ear pain, fever, and mastoiditis, this patient, however, lacks a red and bulging tympanic membrane. Also, a swollen ear canal with granulation tissue suggests an external ear infection and AOM is much more common in infants between 6–24 months of age.

**C - Oral clarithromycin** - Clarithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic that is, e.g., used for the treatment of acute otitis media (AOM) in patients with severe allergies to penicillin. While AOM may also present with acute onset of ear pain, fever, and mastoiditis, this patient, however lacks a red and bulging tympanic membrane. Also, a swollen ear canal with granulation tissue suggests an external ear infection and AOM is much more common in infants between 6–24 months of age.

Image File: 1100-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5718b1b2dab53.jpg

**D - Topical clotrimazole** - Clotrimazole eardrops are recommended for the treatment of fungal otitis externa, which may also present with ear pain, scaling, discharge, and mild hearing impairment, and is a common complication in patients with diabetes due to immunodeficiency. However, the condition is mainly characterized by excessive ear itching, which this patient lacks. Moreover, findings such as fungal filaments and spores (which would resemble mold on spoiled food) are usually seen upon otoscopy but are absent in this vignette.

**E - Topical ciprofloxacin-hydrocortisone** - Eardrops containing ciprofloxacin and hydrocortisone have potent activity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa and are the first-line treatment for uncomplicated otitis externa. In this patient, however, the infection has already spread to the mastoid bone, indicating a severe and complicated course that would not be treated adequately with topical drugs.

Image File: 1100-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_571893a052eea.jpg

**G - Intravenous trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole** - TMP-SMX may be used with clarithromycin for the treatment of acute otitis media (AOM) in patients with severe allergies to penicillin. However, this patient lacks typical findings of AOM such as a red and bulging tympanic membrane and has no history of allergies. TMP-SMX is also considered the drug of choice for patients with nocardiosis, which typically occurs in patients with poorly controlled diabetes mellitus and older age. While the lungs are the most commonly affected site, nocardiosis can affect the skin as well, including of the ears, and cause signs of cellulitis (pain, swelling, erythema, and warmth), ulceration, and local lymphadenopathy. Although this patient presents with similar findings, the combination of a swollen ear canal with granulation tissue, malodorous purulent discharge, and destruction of the mastoid process is more consistent with malignant otitis externa.

