### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Rifampin** - Rifampin is a mainstay of prophylaxis against N. meningitidis for people in close contact with an infected individual. The patient's brother, as well as any other close contacts, should receive a 2-day course of this drug. In scenarios in which rifampin is contraindicated (e.g. hypersensitivity or concomitant HIV protease inhibitor administration) or unavailable, a single dose of intravenous ceftriaxone can be used for the same purpose. Oral ciprofloxacin, although effective as a prophylactic agent against N. meningitidis in adults, is contraindicated in the patient's 7-year-old brother.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Penicillin G** - Penicillin G is not used as prophylaxis against N. meningitidis in close contacts of infected patients. The emergence of penicillin-resistant strains of the bacteria raises concerns about this agent's ability to completely eradicate the presence of the bacteria in the nasopharynx. Additionally, penicillin G must be given intravenously several times a day, making it very inconvenient as a prophylactic agent. In cases of penicillin-sensitive meningococcal meningitis, penicillin G can be used as treatment.

**B - Cephalexin** - Cephalexin, like all first-generation cephalosporins, has very limited activity against N. meningitidis and is thus not indicated for treatment or prophylaxis against the pathogen.

**C - Ciprofloxacin** - Oral ciprofloxacin, although effective as a prophylactic agent against N. meningitidis in adults, is contraindicated in the patient's 7-year-old brother. This drug should not be used in patients under the age of 18 years due to the risk of drug-mediated arthropathy, cartilage toxicity, and tendinopathy.

**D - Conjugated vaccine** - Meningococcal vaccine provides active immunity against N. meningitidis and should be administered. However, serum antibody titers do not reach a protective level until approximately 7–10 days after vaccination. This time frame would leave the patient's brother vulnerable to infection for some time, necessitating a different intervention more acutely.

**F - Doxycycline** - Doxycycline is not used as prophylaxis against N. meningitidis because the drug does not cover this species. Moreover, doxycycline (like all tetracyclines) is contraindicated in children younger than 8 years of age due to the risk of permanent tooth staining from the drug.

