### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Elevated HBA1c** - Elderly diabetic patients are at the greatest risk for developing malignant otitis externa. The specific connection between diabetes mellitus and malignant otitis externa is not fully understood, but may be related to increased pH in diabetic cerumen. Given the strong association between the two conditions, this patient most likely has diabetes. Also, the patient's lack of primary care access puts him at increased risk for the development of chronic diseases, like diabetes mellitus, and their complications.

Image File: 1102-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_571893a052eea.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Malignant epithelial growth of the external auditory canal** - Although a malignant epithelial growth (e.g., squamous cell carcinoma) of the external auditory canal that has extended into the temporal bone could present with ear pain, this is a rare location for malignancy. Also, this patient's signs of systemic infection (fever and tachycardia), and the presence of granulation tissue in the ear canal suggest an infectious, not malignant, etiology.

**B - Condylar degeneration** - Condylar degeneration (e.g., in temporomandibular joint disorder) can also present with ear pain. However, this patient's findings suggest osteomyelitis of the skull (severe pain with ear movement and cranial nerve VII palsy) that has progressed to systemic infection (fever and tachycardia). These findings, in addition to necrotizing granulation tissue in the ear canal, are inconsistent with condylar degeneration, as the condition is a non-infectious process that is localized to the temporomandibular joint itself.

**C - Opacified mastoid air cells** - Opacified mastoid air cells can be found in patients with acute or chronic infections of the sinus or middle ear. Since the middle ear communicates with the mastoid process, otitis media can result in opacification of these air cells. However, this patient likely has an infection of the external ear which does not have a direct communication with the mastoid process and is therefore not associated with opacified mastoid air cells.

Image File: 1102-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5718a68cc55f5.jpg

**D - Streptococcus pneumoniae** - Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common bacterial causes of acute otitis media. Acute otitis media typically presents with ear pain and fever, but more serious complications, like osteomyelitis of the skull and cranial nerve palsies, are rare. Otoscopy in acute otitis media shows bulging of the tympanic membrane, not granulation tissue in the canal, as seen in this patient. Also, acute otitis media most commonly affects young children.

Image File: 1102-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5718b1b2dab53.jpg

