### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Steroid therapy** - This patient presents with delayed left-sided peripheral facial nerve palsy, which is most likely secondary to edema within the facial nerve canal, an epineural hematoma, or a longitudinal fracture of the temporal bone. First-line treatment involves prescribing a short course of high-dose prednisone followed by a tapering regimen to control swelling within the facial nerve canal.

While randomized trials have demonstrated the efficacy of short-term oral glucocorticoids in the treatment of idiopathic facial paralysis or facial nerve palsy of viral etiology, little research has been conducted on the impact of corticosteroids on traumatic facial paralysis. Nonetheless, steroid therapy is currently first-line treatment for addressing edema within the facial nerve canal. Proper eye care with artificial tears and moisturizing ointments is an important part of managing lagophthalmos. If the patient's facial nerve palsy worsens, surgical decompression of the facial nerve canal is indicated.

Image File: 1103-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58eca4d8cefcf.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Reassurance** - The patient presents with delayed facial nerve palsy following trauma. Given the underlying traumatic etiology and the fact that he is symptomatic, reassurance alone would not be the correct answer.

**C - Surgical repair** - Primary nerve repair with good nerve approximation may reduce the degree of facial paralysis, and would be the appropriate step in management if there was direct transection of the facial nerve. However, the patient presented with delayed facial nerve palsy (one day after the traumatic event), which indicates that nerve transection is not the underlying pathology in this patient. Also, the CT scan does not show evidence of a transverse fracture of the temporal bone nor is there a penetrating injury near the cheek to suggest facial nerve transection.

**D - Acyclovir therapy** - Acyclovir therapy would be appropriate for Bell's palsy or facial palsy from a viral infection (e.g., herpes zoster). Although the patient presents with clinical features associated with Bell's palsy (e.g. lagophthalmos, flattened nasolabial fold, drooping of a corner of the mouth), it is likely that his facial palsy has a traumatic etiology given that his symptoms develop following trauma. The patient also does not report any vesicles near the external meatus or dermatomal pain; symptoms that would be suggestive of a herpes zoster etiology.

**E - Surgical decompression** - In a patient with delayed facial nerve palsy following traumatic injury, surgical decompression is only indicated if the presenting symptoms do not improve or continue to worsen with first-line therapy (short course of high-dose steroids). Surgical decompression of the facial nerve puts the patient at risk for further injury to an already injured nerve, may prolong or prevent nerve recovery, and carries the risk of additional complications such as hearing loss, vestibular function loss, cerebrospinal fluid leaks, and meningitis.

