### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Polyneuropathy** - This patient's tingling and symmetric distal sensory loss suggest polyneuropathy. The physical examination findings of sensory ataxia, as indicated by the positive Romberg test, lower motor neuron weakness, and hyporeflexia further support this diagnosis. Polyneuropathy is caused by axonal disorders (e.g., diabetes, alcohol use disorder, HIV, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease) or demyelinating diseases (e.g., Guillain-Barré syndrome).

Image File: 1104-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e8c83e7f1095.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Cauda equina syndrome** - Sensory loss, muscle weakness, and lower motor neuron signs may be seen in cauda equina syndrome. This syndrome, however, is more commonly associated with asymmetric muscle weakness rather than symmetric distal muscle weakness, which is seen here. Moreover, this patient does not have other features commonly associated with cauda equina, such as radicular pain, saddle anesthesia, and bowel and bladder dysfunction.

**C - Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis** - Muscle weakness and lower motor neuron signs raise suspicion for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). However, ALS characteristically manifests with both lower and upper motor neuron signs (e.g., spastic paralysis, hyperreflexia). Moreover, ALS only affects the motor neurons; thus, sensory loss and ataxia would not be expected because sensory neurons are typically spared.

**D - Multiple sclerosis** - Sensory loss, sensory ataxia, and muscle weakness may be seen in multiple sclerosis (MS). However, MS causes upper motor neuron weakness characterized by hyperreflexia and spasticity, whereas this patient presents with hyporeflexia. Moreover, MS commonly manifests with asymmetric sensory and motor deficits disseminated in time and space rather than symmetric lower extremity symptoms that have progressed over the last 2 months, which is seen here. Furthermore, this patient does not have other features commonly seen in MS, including optic neuritis, internuclear ophthalmoplegia, cerebellar signs, and bowel and bladder dysfunction.

**E - Compressive myelopathy** - Sensory loss, sensory ataxia, and lower motor neuron muscle weakness and hyporeflexia may be seen in compressive myelopathy. However, lower motor neuron signs would only be expected at the level of the lesion with upper motor neuron signs (e.g., spastic paralysis, hyperreflexia) below the level of cord compression. Moreover, compressive myelopathy typically causes unilateral symptoms. It is also associated with features such as back pain, which is not seen here.

**F - Subacute combined degeneration** - Sensory loss, sensory ataxia, and muscle weakness may be seen in subacute combined degeneration (SCD). However, SCD causes upper motor neuron weakness characterized by hyperreflexia and spasticity, whereas this patient presents with muscle weakness and hyporeflexia. Moreover, the spinothalamic tract, which transmits pain, remains intact in individuals with SCD, while this patient did not feel the cut on his foot.

**G - Tabes dorsalis** - Loss of proprioception, touch, and sensory ataxia may raise suspicion for tabes dorsalis. However, tabes dorsalis does not affect motor neurons, whereas this patient presents with muscle weakness and hyporeflexia. Moreover, the spinothalamic tract, which transmits pain, remains intact in individuals with tabes dorsalis, whereas this patient did not feel the cut on his foot.

