### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Trihexyphenidyl** - Trihexyphenidyl is a muscarinic antagonist, an anticholinergic, that reduces cholinergic activity in the CNS. Initial monotherapy with an anticholinergic (e.g., trihexyphenidyl) can be considered in younger patients with Parkinson disease (≤ 65 years of age) if they have resting tremor as the main complaint and no evidence of cognitive impairment, significant bradykinesia, or gait disturbance. Benztropine is a commonly used alternative to trihexyphenidyl. If monotherapy with anticholinergics is not effective in reducing tremor, they may be given in combination with a dopamine agonist and/or levodopa, as well as MAO-B inhibitors, or replaced altogether. In some countries outside the US, the use of trihexyphenidyl or other anticholinergics may be less accepted.

Image File: 1105-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d78ff4d8ae7a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Donepezil** - Donepezil is a cholinesterase inhibitor used for the treatment of dementia, such as Alzheimer disease, vascular dementia, and frontotemporal dementia. In patients with Parkinson disease, donepezil is used as an adjunctive treatment for symptoms of dementia. This patient shows no signs of cognitive impairment and has only recently begun noticing neurologic deficits. Dementia is typically a symptom of late-stage Parkinson disease.

**C - Clonazepam** - Clonazepam can be used to treat patients with orthostatic tremor, a condition with an average onset of ∼ 60 years of age. Typical clinical features of orthostatic tremor are triggered by longer periods of standing and include leg tremors as well as a sensation of instability. However, the condition only affects the legs and would not be the cause of this patient's hand tremor or reduced arm swing.

**D - Topiramate** - Topiramate is second-line treatment of benign essential tremor. This patient likely has a family history of essential tremor (his father developed head bobbing in older age). However, unlike the asymmetric resting tremor seen in this patient, essential tremor is symmetrical, worsens with voluntary movements, and resolves completely at rest

**E - Methimazole** - Methimazole is used to treat hyperthyroidism. Although patients with hyperthyroidism can also present with a tremor that increases with stress, as in this patient, the tremor is usually symmetric and occurs while holding a position against gravity (e.g., extending arms in front of the body). It would also not explain this patient's bradykinesia.

**F - Propranolol** - Propranolol is a first-line treatment of benign essential tremor. This patient likely has a family history of essential tremor (his father developed head bobbing in older age). However, unlike the asymmetric resting tremor seen in this patient, essential tremor is symmetrical, worsens with voluntary movements, and resolves completely at rest.

