### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Lamotrigine** - Lamotrigine is an antiepileptic drug with mood-stabilizing properties that is used to treat bipolar disorder. It is one of the most commonly implicated triggers of SJS. Most cases of SJS develop within 2–8 weeks of initiating the offending medication. The risk of developing SJS induced by lamotrigine therapy is greatest when high doses are used, so the initial dose should be low and increased slowly. In addition, about 10% of patients treated with lamotrigine develop a benign skin rash that is difficult to differentiate from early SJS; accordingly, all patients should be advised to discontinue lamotrigine therapy at the first sign of a rash.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Quetiapine** - Quetiapine is an atypical antipsychotic that is used with first-line mood stabilizers to treat refractory bipolar disorder. However, cases of SJS attributed to quetiapine therapy have not been reported. More common adverse effects of quetiapine therapy include hyperprolactinemia, weight gain, hyperlipidemia, hyperglycemia, prolonged QT interval, and extrapyramidal symptoms.

**B - Topiramate** - Topiramate is an antiepileptic drug with mood-stabilizing properties that is sometimes used in conjunction with other agents to treat refractory bipolar disorder. However, cases of SJS attributed to topiramate therapy have not been reported. More common adverse effects of topiramate therapy include glaucoma, weight loss, nephrolithiasis, and cognitive impairment.

**C - Valproic acid** - Valproic acid is an antiepileptic drug with mood-stabilizing properties that is used to treat bipolar disorder. However, valproic acid is an extremely rare cause of SJS. More common adverse effects of valproic acid therapy include hepatic necrosis, pancreatitis, drug interactions due to CYP450 inhibition, weight gain, and gastrointestinal distress.

**E - Lithium** - Lithium is a mood stabilizer used to treat bipolar disorder. However, cases of SJS attributed to lithium therapy have not been reported. More common adverse effects of lithium therapy include gastrointestinal distress, neurologic symptoms (e.g., slurred speech, ataxia, hand tremors, seizures), nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, thyroid dysfunction (hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism), and teratogenesis (Ebstein anomaly).

