### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Valganciclovir** - Valganciclovir is a first-line systemic therapy for CMV retinitis, a condition that can cause blurring, vision loss, floaters, and photopsia (flashing lights). It usually occurs unilaterally (right eye in this patient) but can affect the other eye if untreated. Other first-line systemic therapies include ganciclovir, foscarnet, and cidofovir. Patients with acutely sight-threatening disease (e.g., lesions < 1.5 mm from the fovea or adjacent to the optic nerve head) should also receive intravitreal therapy with ganciclovir or foscarnet. Other CMV infections that develop in patients with CD4+ T-cell count < 50/mm3 include CMV esophagitis, CMV colitis, CMV pneumonitis, and CMV encephalitis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Acyclovir** - Acyclovir is used to treat herpes simplex virus (HSV) and varicella-zoster virus (VZV) infections, which can affect the eyes and present with visual blurring and conjunctivitis. However, HSV keratitis and VZV keratitis both present with corneal ulcers and are typically painful. The extensive hemorrhagic lesions seen in this patient are not common manifestations of HSV or VZV ocular infections. Acyclovir is ineffective against CMV.

Image File: 1107-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d90d56356.jpg

**C - Penicillin G** - Penicillin G is used to treat syphilis, which can affect the uvea and optic nerve (and, less commonly, other ocular structures). Though ocular syphilis causes conjunctival injection and decreased visual acuity, it typically also causes eye pain and photophobia. Syphilitic uveitis also causes perivascular retinal inflammation and depigmentation of the retina, unlike the extensive hemorrhagic lesions seen in this patient. Additionally, isolated ocular findings are rare; patients typically have other findings of primary or secondary syphilis (e.g., chancre, condyloma lata, or generalized lymphadenopathy). Penicillin G is ineffective against CMV.

**D - Famciclovir** - Famciclovir is used to treat shingles caused by varicella-zoster virus (VZV) as well as genital and labial herpes simplex virus infections (HSV). Though VZV and HSV can affect the eyes and cause visual blurring and conjunctivitis, these infections both present with corneal ulcers and are typically painful. Famciclovir is not approved for ocular manifestations of VZV or HSV, nor is it effective against CMV.

Image File: 1107-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93e75dd6.jpg

**E - Sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine** - Sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine are used in combination to treat toxoplasmosis, which can cause chorioretinitis. Though toxoplasmosis retinochoroiditis results in decreased visual acuity, it typically also causes eye pain. Additionally, unlike the perivascular retinal lesions seen in this patient, toxoplasmic chorioretinitis causes yellow-white, fluffy lesions in a nonvascular distribution. Sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine are ineffective against CMV.

**F - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole** - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) is commonly used for Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia prophylaxis in patients with CD4+ T-lymphocyte count < 200/mm3. It is also used to treat Pneumocystis choroiditis, a condition typically seen in patients with disseminated Pneumocystis infections. Pneumocystis choroiditis manifests with multiple, bilateral, yellow-white choroidal lesions that spare the retina. Visual changes are uncommon. TMP-SMX is ineffective against CMV.

Image File: 1107-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fc6613a726bc.jpg

