### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Color blindness** - Ethambutol inhibits arabinosyltransferase, an enzyme involved in the polymerization and subsequent synthesis of mycobacterial cell walls. Adverse effects include optic neuritis and retrobulbar neuritis, which can manifest with blurred vision, decreased visual acuity, and red-green color blindness. The mechanism of ethambutol-induced optic neuritis is not known but there is a dose-dependent correlation in risk of occurrence.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Orange urine** - Rifampin is an antibiotic commonly used to treat tuberculosis that obstructs bacterial protein synthesis by preventing transcription. Adverse effects include flu-like symptoms, hepatotoxicity, and a characteristic orange discoloration of body fluids (e.g., urine, tears). Ethambutol does not lead to orange discoloration of urine.

**B - Acute kidney injury** - Many medications can cause acute kidney injury, including, in rare cases, ethambutol. However, this side effect would be more likely with streptomycin, an aminoglycoside that can be used for mycobacterial infections that works by inhibiting bacterial protein synthesis and damaging the bacterial cell wall. Additional adverse effects of streptomycin include ototoxicity, neuromuscular blockade (ataxia), and nephrotoxicity. Ethambutol is more likely to cause another side effect.

**D - Methemoglobinemia** - Methemoglobinemia is a potential serious adverse effect of dapsone, an antibiotic that can be used for the treatment of Mycobacterium leprae infection (e.g. leprosy). Ethambutol is not known to cause methemoglobinemia.

**E - Peripheral neuropathy** - Peripheral neuropathy is commonly observed with isoniazid, a prodrug activated by bacterial catalase-peroxidase that inhibits mycolic acid synthesis, a vital component of mycobacterial cell walls (bactericidal). It is used mainly to treat tuberculosis. Adverse effects include vitamin B6 deficiency (a cofactor in the biosynthesis of important neurotransmitters), which can lead to peripheral neuropathy. Peripheral neuropathy is not a known adverse effect of ethambutol.

