### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Cerebellar degeneration** - Dysdiadochokinesia, intention tremors, and a wide-based gait indicate a cerebellar cause for this patient's ataxia and vertigo. Degeneration of the superior cerebellar vermis is the most common cause of subacute or chronic ataxia in patients with alcohol use disorder (seen in 1% of cases). Cerebellar degeneration in this patient group occurs due to the direct toxic effects of alcohol or as a result of thiamine deficiency.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Korsakoff syndrome** - Thiamine deficiency due to alcohol use disorder is a risk factor for Korsakoff syndrome, but this condition does not cause ataxia or dizziness. Instead, patients characteristically have anterograde and retrograde amnesia (as a result of damage to the memory circuits) and confabulate to fill in details of past events.

**B - Subacute combined degeneration** - Patients with an alcohol use disorder are at an increased risk of vitamin B12 deficiency, which may result in subacute combined degeneration (SCD). SCD may result in multiple falls as a result of sensory ataxia and/or lower limb weakness. However, patients would be able to perform a Romberg test, unlike this patient. To maintain balance, at least 2 of the 3 following sensory inputs are necessary: vision, proprioception, and vestibular function. By taking away vision input upon closing the eyes during a Romberg test, a patient with defective proprioception (as in SCD) loses balance and the test is positive. Also, this patient has normal muscle strength as well as intact vibration and joint position sense in the lower limbs, which would be absent in SCD.

**C - Methanol poisoning** - Although the patient's occupational history and his alcohol use disorder are risk factors for methanol poisoning, it is typically an acute condition that presents with CNS depression, visual disturbances, nausea, vomiting, and/or abdominal pain.

**E - Wernicke encephalopathy** - Thiamine deficiency due to alcohol use disorder is a risk factor for Wernicke encephalopathy, which may present with ataxia. However, patients with Wernicke encephalopathy would also have other features such as delirium and/or evidence of ocular muscle weakness (e.g., nystagmus). Additionally, dizziness would not be an expected symptom.

