### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Serum creatine kinase concentration** - DMD is an x-linked recessive disease characterized by progressive muscle paresis and atrophy that typically starts in the pelvic girdle, as seen in this patient. Because DMD results in a deficiency of dystrophin, affected muscle cells die, leading to elevated serum levels of creatine kinase (CK). In almost all cases of DMD, serum CK levels are 20–100 times the upper limit of the reference range by the age of 2 years (i.e., even before the onset of symptoms of DMD) and then decline at the rate of approx. 25% per year due to progressive replacement of muscle tissue by fat and fibrotic tissue. If DMD is suspected, serum CK concentration should be obtained as the first step in diagnosis and genetic analysis for DMD gene mutations should then be performed to confirm the diagnosis. If the CK level is normal or only mildly increased at the time of symptom onset, DMD is unlikely and a different condition (e.g., spinal muscular atrophy) should be considered.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Electromyography** - Electromyography (EMG) in DMD might show pathological changes consistent with myopathy, such as polyphasic motor unit potentials and increased motor unit recruitment. However, EMG has a relatively high false-negative rate for DMD, especially in the early stages of the disease, and this test requires the patient's active cooperation, which is difficult to achieve in very young children, like this patient. Electrodiagnostic studies such as EMG and nerve conduction studies are only considered in atypical cases in order to rule out neurogenic disorders such as spinal muscular atrophy.

**C - Echocardiography** - Cardiac arrhythmias and dilated cardiomyopathy caused by cardiac muscle fibrosis are common life-threatening complications of DMD. Therefore, patients with DMD require ECG and echocardiography at the time of diagnosis (in order to establish baseline findings) and then at least annually for surveillance. However, cardiac complications of DMD typically arise during adolescence; toddlers with DMD usually do not have evidence of cardiac disease. A different initial diagnostic step is more appropriate for the diagnosis of DMD.

**D - Muscle biopsy** - As DMD is characterized by a deficiency of dystrophin, muscle biopsy showing the absence of dystrophin can confirm the diagnosis. However, a muscle biopsy is an invasive procedure and is only performed if other, less invasive tests are unavailable or inconclusive.

**E - Genetic analysis** - Genetic analysis is a complex and expensive procedure and is only performed if the results of another initial step are suggestive of DMD. Genetic analysis is used to confirm the diagnosis of DMD.

