### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - CT scan of the head** - CT scan of the head before lumbar puncture (LP) is indicated in patients presenting with typical signs of acute meningitis accompanied by signs of increased intracranial pressure or a mass lesion (e.g., altered mental status). The primary goal of obtaining neuroimaging before LP is to mitigate the risk of brain herniation, which can be precipitated by the transient decrease in intracranial pressure caused by LP. This patient is somnolent and oriented only to place and person and, therefore, meets the criteria for neuroimaging before an LP. Indications for performing a head CT prior to LP in patients with suspected meningitis are summarized in the mnemonic “FAILS”: Focal neurologic deficit, Altered mental status, Immunocompromised/ICP elevated, Lesion in the brain or skin near LP site, new-onset Seizures.

Image File: 1116-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60eff5f4295e8.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Electroencephalography** - Electroencephalography (EEG) is used primarily for the diagnosis of epilepsy and other seizure disorders and is not part of the diagnostic workup for acute meningitis, which is suspected in this patient.

**C - MRI of the head** - An MRI of the head in patients with suspected meningitis and signs of increased intracranial pressure (e.g., altered mental status) may show typical neuroimaging features of elevated intracranial pressure (e.g., effacement of the ventricles). However, MRI is a time-consuming diagnostic technique, and a fast diagnostic workup is essential for the prognosis in acute meningitis.

**D - Lumbar puncture** - Lumbar puncture is typically used to diagnose meningitis, which is suspected in this patient. However, this patient's altered mental status (i.e., somnolence, disorientation to time) raises suspicion for increased intracranial pressure. Performing a lumbar puncture in a patient with increased intracranial pressure increases the risk of brain herniation and is, therefore, contraindicated in this patient.

**E - Cerebral arteriography** - Cerebral arteriography is mainly used for the diagnosis of intracerebral or subarachnoid hemorrhages, as well as vascular malformations (e.g., arteriovenous malformations), and is not part of the diagnostic workup for acute meningitis, which is suspected in this patient.

