### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Pain with eye movements** - Rapidly progressive pain with eye movements is a sign of inflammation/infection of the extraocular muscles. In the presence of fever and features of ocular inflammation (i.e., diffuse edema, erythema, and tenderness of the eyelids), painful ocular movements and/or proptosis are specific for orbital cellulitis, a sight-threatening infection of the orbital contents. While preseptal cellulitis can be treated with oral antibiotics, spread of infection to the orbital tissues requires prompt treatment with empiric IV antibiotics, including vancomycin plus one of the following: ceftriaxone, cefotaxime, ampicillin-sulbactam, piperacillin-tazobactam.

Image File: 1119-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5769bf9d2f623.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Worsening of ocular pain** - Worsening ocular pain can be caused a number of ophthalmic conditions, such as corneal abrasions, angle-close glaucoma, endophthalmitis, preseptal cellulitis, and orbital cellulitis. Therefore, ocular pain is a non-specific symptom that, as a sole clinical feature, is not an indication for the initiation of IV antibiotics.

**B - Edema, erythema, and tenderness of the eyelid** - Unilateral diffuse edema, erythema, and tenderness of the eyelid can occur in any condition that causes ocular infection or inflammation, e.g. blepharitis, bacterial conjunctivitis, endophthalmitis, preseptal cellulitis, and even orbital cellulitis. Therefore, diffuse inflammation of the eyelid as a sole clinical feature is non-specific and not an indication to initiate IV antibiotics.

**C - Leukocytosis** - Leukocytosis is a nonspecific symptom of many conditions, including viral infections or inflammatory conditions, that do not require antibiotic treatment. In this case, the patient's leukocytosis could be a sign of sinusitis or preseptal cellulitis. Bacterial sinusitis and mild preseptal cellulitis can be managed with oral antibiotics. Because both orbital cellulitis and preseptal cellulitis present with fever, leukocytosis, and acute ocular pain and inflammation, usually in conjunction with acute rhinosinusitis, it is important to identify specific findings of orbital cellulitis, which always requires IV antibiotics.

**E - Purulent nasal discharge and right cheek tenderness** - The purulent discharge in the right nasal cavity, right cheek tenderness, and the recent history of headaches and nasal congestion is characteristic of a right maxillary sinusitis. Bacterial sinusitis is the most likely etiological factor of this patient's orbital cellulitis. However, oral (not parenteral) antibiotics alone would be appropriate to treat bacterial sinusitis.

**F - Fever** - Fever is a nonspecific symptom of many conditions, including viral infections or inflammatory conditions, that do not require antibiotic treatment. In this case, the patient's fever could be a sign of sinusitis or preseptal cellulitis. Bacterial sinusitis and mild preseptal cellulitis can be managed with oral antibiotics. Because both orbital cellulitis and preseptal cellulitis present with fever and acute ocular pain and inflammation, usually in conjunction with acute rhinosinusitis, it is important to identify specific findings of orbital cellulitis, which always requires IV antibiotics.

