### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Pseudomonas keratitis** - Pseudomonas aeruginosa easily adheres to contact lenses and is the most common cause of bacterial keratitis among contact lens users, like this patient. Risk factors include extended wearing of contact lenses and poor contact lens hygiene. This patient has a central, circular, corneal ulcer with extensive conjunctival injection and a hypopyon that developed over the course of only one day, typical of Pseudomonas keratitis.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Staphylococcus aureus keratitis** - Staphylococcus aureus keratitis is the most common cause of bacterial keratitis among patients without contact lens use, and would present with a similar clinical picture as this patient. However, the history of contact lens use and the rapid progression of symptoms makes another causative organism more likely.

**C - Angle-closure glaucoma** - Acute angle-closure glaucoma presents with an acute onset of monocular pain, blurred vision, conjunctival injection, and a cloudy cornea, as seen in this patient. However, it typically also leads to a mid-dilated, nonreactive pupil and a hard eyeball on palpation, both of which are absent in this patient. Furthermore, glaucoma does not cause a hypopyon or a corneal ulcer.

Image File: 1122-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e4a5b0c536b7.jpg

**D - Herpes simplex keratitis** - Herpes simplex keratitis (HSV keratitis) can present with ocular pain and blurry vision. However, HSV keratitis typically progresses over 1–3 days; unlike this patient's rapid development in one day. In addition, slit lamp examination in HSV keratitis would show the pathognomonic dendritic ulcer rather than the circular corneal ulcer and hypopyon seen in this patient.

Image File: 1122-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59afbd794db86.jpg

**E - Epidemic keratoconjunctivitis** - Epidemic keratoconjunctivitis (EKC) is a highly contagious adenoviral infection that is spread commonly among groups of people (e.g., in kindergartens, nursing homes). EKC usually presents with bilateral ocular pain/foreign body sensation, blurring of vision, conjunctival injection, and edema of the eyelids and conjunctiva. While corneal involvement with subepithelial infiltrates may develop after a few days, EKC affects both eyes, does not present with rapid onset of a circular corneal ulcer and hypopyon, and is therefore unlikely.

**F - Herpes zoster keratitis** - Herpes zoster keratitis typically presents with a prodrome of fever and malaise, which is followed by eye pain, impaired vision, and eruption of vesicles in the dermatomal distribution of the ophthalmic nerve (e.g., ipsilateral forehead, tip of nose). Corneal involvement is seen as a dendritic ulcer (branching pattern on the corneal epithelium) on slit lamp examination. This patient's presentation of rapid progression of ocular symptoms, the presence of a circular corneal ulcer and hypopyon, with the absence of prodromal symptoms or skin findings is inconsistent with herpes zoster keratitis.

**G - Vernal keratoconjunctivitis** - Vernal keratoconjunctivitis (VKC) is a subtype of allergic conjunctivitis that presents with seasonal itching and watering of both eyes and typically manifests in children. The pathognomonic sign of VKC is the presence of giant papillae on the tarsal conjunctiva (cobblestone appearance). Corneal erosion that resembles the shape of a shield (shield ulcer) may occur after several days of symptoms. Although this patient's history of asthma is a risk factor for the development of VKC, the acute onset and rapid progression of symptoms in a single eye, the age of onset, and absence of itching or giant papillae, make it an unlikely diagnosis in this patient.

Image File: 1122-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9498f858.jpg

