### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Endotracheal intubation** - Endotracheal intubation is the most appropriate next step in management given the signs of impending respiratory failure in this patient (pallor, anxiety, tachycardia, tachypnea, bluish discoloration). This patient had a recent history of infection (sore throat, runny nose, fever) that are likely to have triggered myasthenic crisis, a severe complication of MG. Her one-year history of tiredness and muscle weakness is consistent with a diagnosis of MG that will require treatment at a later time. At the moment, however, respiratory failure is life-threatening and requires immediate intervention.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous immunoglobulin therapy** - IV immunoglobulin therapy is a rapid immunomodulating therapy that is used to relieve symptoms mediated by AChR antibodies in cases of myasthenic crisis. This patient would likely benefit from administration of IV immunoglobulin, but at this time, she requires immediate treatment with a different intervention.

**B - Pyridostigmine therapy** - Pyridostigmine, an indirect parasympathomimetic drug, is indicated in long-term symptomatic management of MG. This patient, however, presents with acute symptoms of myasthenic crisis. Her current clinical presentation calls for immediate intervention with a different treatment.

**C - Prednisone therapy** - Prednisone is a glucocorticoid immunosuppressant that is used to treat MG refractory to anticholinesterase treatment. Although high-dose prednisone can be used for the acute management of myasthenic crisis, this patient's clinical presentation suggests a life-threatening complication that requires immediate intervention.

**D - Plasmapheresis** - Plasmapheresis is a rapid immunomodulating therapy that is used to remove AChR antibodies from the circulation in cases of myasthenic crisis. Although this patient would likely benefit from plasmapheresis, her current presentation indicates a life-threatening condition that requires a different intervention.

**E - Thymectomy** - Thymectomy is indicated in all patients with MG and thymoma, and, in the absence of thymoma, it is considered beneficial in patients with MG and AChR antibodies. Although this patient might benefit from surgery in the future, her current presentation is worrisome for life-threatening myasthenic crisis, which requires immediate intervention with a different treatment.

**G - Administration of edrophonium** - The edrophonium test (or Tensilon test) was formerly used to diagnose MG. Although this patient's clinical history is consistent with MG, a confirmatory test (such as serologic testing for acetylcholine receptor antibodies) is required to establish the diagnosis. Regardless, her current presentation suggests a life-threatening complication of myasthenic crisis that requires immediate intervention.

