### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Focal seizure** - A focal seizure may occur with or without dyscognitive features (e.g., loss of consciousness) and can manifest with a variety of positive and negative symptoms, including focal motor activity that may be followed by transient weakness in an affected limb. Focal seizures may arise in the setting of hippocampal sclerosis, infection, trauma, or perinatal injury, among others. The majority of affected patients also experience an “aura,” with higher cortical sensations such as déjà vu and fear that precede the focal seizure. This patient experienced violent, jerky arm movements preceded by a “chill down his spine” and followed by temporary focal paresis without residual effects (Todd paralysis) upon presentation to the emergency department, which is consistent with the diagnosis of a focal seizure without impairment of consciousness, previously referred to as a simple partial seizure.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Sydenham chorea** - Sydenham chorea typically manifests 1–8 months after group A streptococcal infection and is a common form of acquired chorea in childhood. The rapid, irregular, and non-stereotyped movements of Sydenham chorea are usually generalized (involving the head, neck, and limbs) and continuous while the patient is awake, worsening over hours to days. Motor symptoms may be associated with impaired motor control, muscle weakness, and/or hypotonia. While the patient's history of a sore throat 3 weeks ago should raise suspicion of rheumatic fever, the timing of the appearance of the motor disturbance (< 1 month after sore throat), the cessation of the movement after 2 minutes, its restriction to a single limb, and the lack of other criteria suggestive of rheumatic fever make the diagnosis of Sydenham chorea unlikely.

**B - Sporadic transient tic disorder** - Sporadic transient tic disorder, a subtype of tic disorder, is relatively common during childhood and can include motor tics, which appear as sudden, brief, and intermittent movements that are usually accompanied by an awareness of the urge to perform the tic. However, while the patient did have sudden movements of his arm during the described episode, its duration of minutes rather than seconds, the complexity of the movement, the preceding “chill" (rather than an urge), and the subsequent transient paresis of the affected limb are not consistent with a tic disorder.

**C - Conversion disorder** - Conversion disorder is characterized as an unconscious response to psychological stress, either acute or remote, that manifests as a neurological disorder and is distressing for the patient. Possible symptoms include altered motor function, “seizures” of non-epileptic origin, and/or weakness. Criteria for diagnosis include clinical evidence that the symptom cannot be explained by other neurological conditions, making conversion disorder a diagnosis of exclusion. While the loss of his father may have caused this patient stress, his symptoms can be explained by a discrete neurological phenomenon, making it less likely that they are “conversion” symptoms.

**D - Hemiplegic migraine** - A migraine may be accompanied by an aura of both positive and negative focal neurologic symptoms such as visual disturbances, paresthesias, or pareses, which usually develop gradually (> 5 minutes) but last no longer than 1 hour and are by definition completely reversible. Hemiplegic migraines specifically are defined by the presence of motor weakness as the manifestation of the aura. Migraines may also be preceded by prodromes occurring 24–48 hours prior to the beginning of the headache, which may include complex experiential symptoms such as depression and euphoria. While this patient did experience a feeling of a “chill down his spine” prior to the episode and subsequent reversible paresis of his arm, he did not experience the headache that is central to the diagnosis of migraine with aura, nor the associated nausea, photophobia, and/or phonophobia. Moreover, the timing of the prodrome, and the development and duration of his paresis is not consistent with a migraine aura.

