### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Topical ofloxacin** - This patient presents with symptoms of severe bacterial keratitis that is most likely associated with his use of contact lenses. To prevent complications like corneal scarring and vision loss, swift administration of topical broad-spectrum antibiotics is the most important initial step in management. Ofloxacin is recommended as a first-line antibiotic agent.

Image File: 1127-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55590ee182ad7.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Topical ketorolac and artificial tears** - Topical ketorolac and artificial tears are used to treat allergic conjunctivitis. This patient's atopic dermatitis increases his risk of developing allergic conjunctivitis. However, while allergic conjunctivitis also presents with redness and excessive tearing, it is more common in young adults and most often presents with itching and bilateral eye involvement. Furthermore, corneal ulceration and hypopyon do not occur.

Image File: 1127-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58808918f0f22.jpg

**B - Oral acyclovir** - Oral acyclovir is indicated in the treatment of herpes simplex keratitis if topical treatment cannot be administered by the patient or has not been effective. While HSV keratitis presents similarly to this patient's symptoms (i.e., unilateral eye redness and pain), there are no findings on slit-lamp examination suggestive of HSV keratitis (e.g., dendritic or geographic corneal lesion or vesicles). The presence of a round corneal infiltrate and a hypopyon indicates bacterial keratitis.

**D - Topical timolol and pilocarpine** - Topical timolol and pilocarpine are indicated for the treatment of angle-closure glaucoma, which presents with a sudden, unilateral onset of severe pain, ocular inflammation, and blurry vision. Accompanying frontal headaches, nausea, and vomiting are also often seen, which are not present in this patient. In the absence of a mid-dilated, nonreactive pupil and a hard eyeball on palpation but instead the presence of corneal ulceration and hypopyon, angle-closure glaucoma can be ruled out.

Image File: 1127-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e4a5b0c536b7.jpg

**E - Topical prednisolone** - Topical prednisolone may be used to treat severe bacterial keratitis to reduce inflammation and improve outcome (e.g., prevent corneal scarring). Since corticosteroids may also cause local immunosuppression and aggravate the infection, they may only be administered following identification of the pathogen and ∼ 2 days of appropriate antibiotic therapy.

**F - Topical ganciclovir** - Topical ganciclovir is indicated to treat herpes simplex keratitis, a type of viral keratitis, which typically also presents with unilateral eye redness and pain, as seen in this patient. Since this patient has no typical findings of HSV keratitis on slit-lamp examination (e.g., dendritic or geographic corneal lesion and vesicles), but presents with signs of bacterial infection, topical ganciclovir is not indicated.

Image File: 1127-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59afbd794db86.jpg

