### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Anterior spinal artery syndrome** - Anterior spinal artery syndrome is a loss of function of the part of the spinal cord supplied by the anterior spinal artery, which includes the descending corticospinal tract fibers (resulting in bilateral flaccid paralysis and loss of DTRs in the acute phase), the ascending spinothalamic tracts (causing bilateral pain/temperature sensation loss), and autonomic fibers (resulting in hypotension). The anterior spinal cord is at increased risk for infarction because it is supplied by the single anterior spinal artery, which has few collaterals. Therefore, significant blood loss, as seen in this patient, can lead to ischemic infarction of the anterior spinal cord.

Image File: 1128-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ea2f383def6e.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Tabes dorsalis** - Tabes dorsalis, which is the result of tertiary syphilis, affects the dorsal columns and presents with an isolated loss of proprioception. Flaccid paralysis with pain and temperature deficits are typically not seen in tabes dorsalis. Furthermore, tabes dorsalis typically occurs after many years of infection with syphilis and proprioceptive deficits evolve slowly. The acute onset of this patient's symptoms makes tabes dorsalis unlikely.

**C - Guillain-Barré Syndrome** - Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS) usually presents with ascending flaccid paralysis that develops over the course of hours to weeks. Patients may have a prodrome of painful sensations and typically have an antecedent viral or gastrointestinal illness such as Campylobacter enterocolitis. Although this patient has flaccid paralysis, her paralysis began without an ascending course or prodromal symptoms. Furthermore, in GBS, the patient is areflexic in all joints, and pain and temperature sensation are relatively preserved. This patient has 2+ reflexes in her upper extremities and has lost significant pain and temperature sensation, making GBS unlikely.

**D - Brown-Séquard syndrome** - Brown-Séquard syndrome occurs when either the right or the left half of the spinal cord is damaged. Unlike this patient's bilateral loss of pain and temperature sensation and preserved proprioception, Brown-Séquard syndrome presents with ipsilateral weakness and loss of proprioception, as well as pain and temperature deficits contralaterally.

**E - Posterior spinal artery syndrome** - Posterior spinal artery syndrome results in loss of proprioception, vibratory sensation, and diminished two-point discrimination at and below the level of the injury. This patient has preserved vibratory sensation as demonstrated by the tuning fork. In addition, the condition is not very common because the posterior cord is supplied by two posterior spinal arteries with collateral blood supply from reticulospinal arteries.

