### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Oral morphine therapy** - This infant presents with typical symptoms of neonatal abstinence syndrome, likely caused by the mother's codeine use during pregnancy. In infants with mild opiate withdrawal symptoms, supportive care (e.g., swaddling, IV fluids, quiet room) is preferred. For infants with more severe symptoms, as seen in this infant, administration of oral morphine is recommended to treat the withdrawal.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Oral clonidine therapy** - Oral clonidine may be used in the treatment of neonatal abstinence syndrome. It works by reducing noradrenergic hyperactivity induced by opioid withdrawal without causing respiratory depression. However, it is currently not recommended as first-line treatment and an alternate therapy would be more effective for his condition.

**C - Intravenous calcium gluconate therapy** - IV calcium gluconate is used for treatment of hypocalcemia, which in an infant may also present with irritability, poor feeding, tremors, and hyperreflexia. However, this infant does not have any risk factors for hypocalcemia (e.g., preterm birth, intrauterine growth restriction) and his serum calcium level is normal.

**D - Therapeutic hypothermia** - Therapeutic hypothermia is used for treatment of neonatal encephalopathy. While mild cases may also present with irritability, hyperreflexia, crying, and poor feeding, this infant does not have any risk factors for this disease (e.g., drop in maternal blood pressure causing cerebral hypoxia).

**E - Intravenous ampicillin and gentamicin combination therapy** - A combination of IV ampicillin and gentamicin can be used for treatment of certain neonatal infections (e.g., meningitis). While the presentation in infants can be nonspecific and similar to those seen here, the absence of leukocytosis and lack of risk factors for neonatal infection (e.g., maternal infection, premature birth) make this diagnosis unlikely.

**F - Oral methimazole therapy** - Methimazole therapy is used to treat infants with symptomatic hyperthyroidism. Symptoms may be similar to those seen in this patient (e.g., irritability, sweating, poor weight gain). However, a diffuse goiter and positive maternal history would be expected.

**G - Dextrose infusion** - Dextrose infusion is used for treatment of hypoglycemia. While hypoglycemia may present with similar symptoms (e.g., irritability, sweating, poor feeding), his serum glucose level was normal.

