### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Sumatriptan** - Sumatriptan is a serotonin receptor agonist used as abortive therapy in the treatment of acute migraines. The use of two or more serotonergic medications (in this case, fluoxetine and sumatriptan) increases the risk of developing serotonin syndrome, which causes autonomic stimulation (e.g., hyperthermia, diaphoresis) and neuromuscular hyperactivity (e.g., tremor, hyperreflexia, gait ataxia). Other medications associated with serotonin syndrome include SNRIs, MAOIs, TCAs, buspirone, ondansetron, tramadol, linezolid, amphetamines, and MDMA.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Amiodarone** - Amiodarone is a class III antiarrhythmic drug that acts via potassium channel blockade. Adverse effects include pulmonary fibrosis, hepatic toxicity, and QT prolongation, which can induce potentially fatal torsades de pointes. Amiodarone is not associated with serotonin syndrome.

**C - Scopolamine** - Scopolamine is an antiemetic medication that acts via non-selective muscarinic antagonism. It can cause anticholinergic toxicity, which manifests with dry mouth, mydriasis, tachycardia, and urinary retention. Scopolamine is not associated with serotonin syndrome.

**D - Haloperidol** - Haloperidol is a typical antipsychotic that acts via D2 receptor antagonism. It is commonly associated with the development of neuroleptic malignant syndrome, which has similar manifestations to serotonin syndrome (e.g., fever, confusion) but can be differentiated by the presence of muscle rigidity (instead of the hyperreflexia seen here). Haloperidol is not associated with the development of serotonin syndrome.

**E - Succinylcholine** - Succinylcholine is a depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agent used for skeletal muscle relaxation during the induction phase of general anesthesia. It can cause malignant hyperthermia in susceptible individuals, which manifests with high body temperature, tachycardia, tachypnea, muscle rigidity, arrhythmia, and myoglobinuria; it does not cause tremor and hyperreflexia as seen in this case. Succinylcholine is not associated with serotonin syndrome.

