### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Tearing of bridging veins** - This CT scan shows a classic subdural hematoma. The history of minor head trauma followed by the insidious onset of unilateral neurological symptoms (spastic paresis, hyperreflexia, decreased sensation) is consistent with a chronic subdural hematoma. This type of bleeding results from tears in the bridging veins that cross the subdural space.

Image File: 1135-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_608fd24436f2b.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Damage to lenticulostriate arteries** - Damage to the lenticulostriate arteries is most often a consequence of hypertension (Charcot-Bouchard microaneurysm), cerebral amyloid angiopathy, or vasculitis. Patients typically present with severe headache, focal neurologic deficits, and loss of consciousness. The onset is acute and progresses rapidly. CT imaging would show a solitary hyperdense lesion, surrounded by hypodense edema within the cerebral parenchyma.

Image File: 1135-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58d012a6d3326.jpg

**B - Injury to middle meningeal artery** - Injury to the middle meningeal artery can lead to an epidural hemorrhage. The typical presentation of this injury is head trauma followed by normal sensorium (lucid interval) before onset of symptoms of increased intracranial pressure. CT scan would show a characteristic lentiform hemorrhagic collection (hemorrhage limited by suture lines).

Image File: 1135-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d937b7508.jpg

**C - Rupture of saccular aneurysm** - Saccular aneurysm rupture leads to subarachnoid hemorrhage, which characteristically causes severe, abrupt-onset headaches (thunderclap headaches) that may be associated with vomiting, neck pain, and decreased levels of consciousness. While this patient has decreased levels of consciousness, he does not have any of the other characteristic symptoms, nor does his CT scan show blood in the subarachnoid space, as would be expected.

Image File: 1135-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fdb6002a7ea4.jpg

**D - Embolus to middle cerebral artery** - Embolus to the middle cerebral artery would cause an ischemic stroke. Most commonly, embolism results in acute-onset neurological defects as opposed to the subacute progression of this patient's symptoms. CT scans can present with hyperdense MCA sign but are usually unremarkable for up to 24 hours after an ischemic stroke. MRI is the preferred modality for imaging acute ischemic stroke.

Image File: 1135-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9531ddb3.jpg

**F - Bleeding from intraventricular vascular malformation** - Intraventricular vascular malformations are a common cause of intraventricular hemorrhage. Like other intracranial bleeding events, the characteristic presentation includes sudden onset of headache, vomiting, and altered level of consciousness. Seizures are common but focal neurological findings are not. CT imaging would show blood within the ventricular system.

