### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Pyridoxine** - Since pyridoxine (vitamin B6) is an essential cofactor in the synthesis of neurotransmitters and heme, patients with a chronic pyridoxine deficiency typically present with sensory peripheral neuropathy and hypochromic, microcytic anemia (sideroblastic anemia), as seen here. While vitamin B6 deficiency is rare in the general population, it is commonly seen in association with isoniazid (INH) use in antituberculosis treatment, because INH competes with pyridoxine in neurotransmitter synthesis. To prevent peripheral neuropathy, supplemental pyridoxine should therefore be added to every treatment regimen that includes INH.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Iron** - While iron deficiency is the most common cause of anemia and could explain the patient's microcytic anemia and cheilosis, it is not associated with neurologic symptoms.

**C - Intravenous immunoglobulins** - Intravenous immunoglobulins are used to treat diseases such as Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS). While GBS can also causes paresthesias of the distal extremities, these are usually mild and accompanied by pain, rather than frank loss of sensation. Furthermore, in the case of GBS, muscle reflexes would be absent and ascending, bilateral paralysis would be expected.

**D - Vitamin E** - Vitamin E deficiency may present with peripheral neuropathy (tingling and decreased sensation to pinprick/light touch), but the patient here does not have muscle weakness, ataxia, or hemolytic anemia, which are also typical features of vitamin E deficiency. In addition, this diagnosis is usually associated with conditions that cause fat malabsorption (e.g., pancreatic exocrine insufficiency, cholestatic liver disease), which is not suggested by the patient's history.

**E - Folic acid** - Folate deficiency causes megaloblastic anemia – not microcytic anemia. It also does not result in sensory neuropathy.

**F - Vitamin B12** - Although vitamin B12 deficiency may present with peripheral neuropathy, as seen in this patient, it is usually accompanied by further neurological abnormalities (subacute combined degeneration). Additionally, it causes megaloblastic anemia, not microcytic anemia.

