### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Quetiapine therapy** - Patients with Parkinson disease are at an increased risk of developing psychosis (most commonly in the form of visual hallucinations) as a side effect of dopamine replacement therapy. If other causes of psychotic symptoms have been excluded (e.g., infections) and adjusting the dose of antiparkinson medication does not provide symptomatic relief, as seen here, antipsychotic medication is indicated. Quetiapine, or other second-generation antipsychotics like clozapine or pimavanserin, is the first-line option for patients with Parkinson disease with persistent psychotic symptoms. Patients taking quetiapine, especially elderly individuals, should be monitored for common side effects of drug, including anticholinergic stimulation, metabolic symptoms, and QT prolongation.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Risperidone therapy** - Risperidone is a second-generation antipsychotic agent that can be used in the management of acute psychosis or schizophrenia. However, risperidone should not be used in Parkinson disease because it is a dopamine antagonist and has anticholinergic activity; it can exacerbate both motor and psychotic symptoms.

**C - Haloperidol therapy** - Haloperidol is a first-generation antipsychotic agent that is used to manage conditions such as delirium, acute psychosis, and schizophrenia. However, haloperidol should not be used in patients with Parkinson disease because it is a dopamine antagonist and has anticholinergic activity; it can exacerbate both motor and psychotic symptoms.

**D - Ciprofloxacin therapy** - Ciprofloxacin therapy is the first-line treatment for complicated urinary tract infections (UTIs), which are a common cause of delirium in elderly individuals and could explain the onset of visual hallucinations in this patient. Nevertheless, this patient's laboratory results, including urinalysis, did not show any abnormalities, making a UTI unlikely.

**E - Benztropine therapy** - Benztropine is an anticholinergic agent commonly used in individuals with Parkinson disease to manage tremor and rigidity. This patient, however, presents with signs of psychosis, which can worsen with the use of an anticholinergic drug.

