### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Coxsackievirus** - Gram staining of the CSF is negative in viral meningitis, hence the name “aseptic” meningitis. Enteroviruses (e.g., coxsackieviruses) are the most common cause of viral meningitis and typically have a peak incidence during late summer and early fall. Coxsackievirus is a nonenveloped picornavirus that can also cause carditis, herpangina, and hand, foot, and mouth disease besides aseptic meningitis. Less common causes of viral meningitis in the US are HSV-2 (Mollaret meningitis) and arboviruses (e.g., West Nile virus).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Borrelia burgdorferi** - B. burgdorferi, a spirochete, is transmitted to humans by ticks and causes Lyme disease. Lyme disease typically starts with an erythema migrans, which is followed by neurological symptoms (e.g., facial palsy), migratory arthralgia, and cardiac manifestations (e.g., myocarditis). Late disease is characterized by chronic arthritis and late neuroborreliosis with possible progressive encephalomyelitis and aseptic meningitis. The patient's CSF findings are compatible with B. burgdorferi infection. However, the patient has no history of a rash, arthritis, or cranial nerve involvement (facial palsy), which makes Lyme disease less likely.

**B - Mycobacterium tuberculosis** - M. tuberculosis, an acid-fast gram-positive bacilli, causes tuberculosis. In addition to pulmonary involvement, it can also disseminate and sometimes involve the meninges. Based on the patient's clinical features alone, he may have tuberculous meningitis. However, CSF findings in tuberculous meningitis would typically show mononuclear pleocytosis, elevated protein, decreased glucose concentration, and sometimes xanthochromia. Furthermore, the patient lacks risk factors for having a tuberculous infection (no previous history of exposure to M. tuberculosis; not from an endemic region).

**C - Herpes simplex virus 1** - Herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1) may lead to stomatitis, herpes labialis, or herpes keratoconjunctivitis. It is also the most common cause of viral encephalitis (HSV encephalitis, or HSE). Although HSE can also present with a prodrome of headache and fever, this patient does not have focal neurological deficits, seizures, altered mental status, or behavioral changes. In addition, CSF findings in HSE would show lymphocytic pleocytosis, elevated protein, and increased number of erythrocytes. Although this patient's clinical presentation and cerebrospinal fluid findings are consistent with meningitis of a viral etiology, another pathogen is much more likely.

**D - Neisseria meningitidis** - N. meningitidis, a gram-negative diplococci, may lead to meningitis, meningococcemia, and Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome. N. meningitidis is also the second most common cause of bacterial meningitis in individuals 6–60 years of age. Although this patient's clinical features could be explained by bacterial meningitis, CSF findings would show increased protein, decreased glucose, and significant granulocytosis.

**F - Streptococcus pneumoniae** - S. pneumoniae, a gram-positive diplococci, can lead to otitis media, sinusitis, and community-acquired pneumonia. It is also the most common cause of bacterial meningitis in individuals 6–60 years of age. Although this patient's clinical features could be explained by bacterial meningitis, CSF findings would show increased protein, decreased glucose, and significant granulocytosis.

