### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Olfactory groove meningioma** - Foster-Kennedy syndrome can be caused by any tumor arising within the frontal lobe, but meningiomas (especially in the olfactory groove) are the most common cause. About 10% of meningiomas arise within the olfactory groove. This woman's visual function may improve after reducing the elevated intracranial pressure.

Image File: 1141-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_535fb7e03da4b.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hereditary optic neuropathy** - Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy is the most common inherited optic neuropathy in young adults. Optic neuropathy causes acute visual changes, but it would not cause papilledema or anosmia. Visual field testing demonstrates a central scotoma and teleangiectasias around the papilla as well as microangiopathy, none of which are seen in this patient. The lack of family history of optic neuropathy also makes hereditary neuropathy unlikely.

**B - Pseudotumor cerebri** - Pseudotumor cerebri (i.e., idiopathic intracranial hypertension) should always be considered in women of childbearing age who present with subacute-to-chronic headache and visual changes, as in this patient. However, pseudotumor cerebri typically affects overweight women, causes bilateral rather than unilateral papilledema, and is rarely associated with anosmia.

**C - Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy** - Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (AION) is the most common cause of optic neuropathy in adults > 50 years old and presents with acute visual loss. Funduscopic exam would show pale optic disc swelling, sometimes associated with splinter hemorrhages. Unlike in this patient, AION progresses over the course of a few days (not months) and does not cause anosmia.

**E - Multiple sclerosis** - Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a common cause of optic neuritis, especially in women of child-bearing age. Optic neuritis can present with acute vision change and a relative afferent pupillary defect. While optic neuritis may cause papillitis, which occasionally presents with papilledema, it does not result in optic atrophy. Also, MS typically presents with relapsing, remitting neurologic symptoms in anatomically unrelated locations (i.e., symptoms disseminated in time and space), whereas this patient's symptoms are chronic and progressive.

