### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Wernicke aphasia** - Wernicke aphasia is caused by lesions in the superior temporal gyrus of the dominant (usually left) hemisphere, usually along the left MCA distribution. Patients with Wernicke aphasia typically present with impaired language comprehension and repetition; although they can speak fluently, they produce nonsensical phrases. Furthermore, these patients lack awareness of their impairment, as is the case here. In addition to Wernicke aphasia, signs of an MCA stroke include gaze deviation towards the side of the infarction and contralateral homonymous hemianopia without macular sparing.

Image File: 1143-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fb3d8b9b0447.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Broca aphasia** - Broca aphasia is caused by lesions in the inferior frontal gyrus of the dominant (usually left) hemisphere (e.g., due to an infarct in the superior division of the middle cerebral artery). In patients with Broca aphasia, language production is greatly affected, resulting in nonfluent, telegraphic, and grammatically incorrect speech. Patients are aware of their impaired speech and can become frustrated during the physical examination. This patient cannot repeat single words and has impaired language comprehension. However, he speaks fluently and is unaware of his language deficits.

**B - Conduction aphasia** - Conduction aphasia is usually caused by damage to the arcuate fasciculus. This type of aphasia is characterized by impaired repetition with fluent speech and intact comprehension. This patient has poor repetition with fluent speech but impaired comprehension.

**C - Transcortical motor aphasia** - Transcortical motor aphasia is characterized by nonfluent aphasia with good comprehension and intact repetition. This patient speaks fluently but has impaired comprehension and poor repetition.

**D - Global aphasia** - Global aphasia is a neurologic insult that involves nonfluent aphasia and impaired comprehension. Global aphasia is usually caused by a large lesion affecting the Broca area, the Wernicke area, and the arcuate fasciculus. This patient has impaired comprehension and repetition but speaks fluently.

**F - Transcortical sensory aphasia** - Transcortical sensory aphasia is characterized by impaired auditory comprehension with intact repetition and fluent speech. This patient has fluent speech with impaired comprehension, but his repetition is poor.

**G - Anomic aphasia** - Anomic aphasia is a type of expressive aphasia characterized by word-finding difficulties, particularly in relation to nouns and verbs. Patients with anomic aphasia usually have fluent speech and intact comprehension. This patient speaks fluently but has impaired comprehension and poor repetition.

