### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Lambert-Eaton syndrome** - Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS), which is associated with small-cell lung cancer in two-thirds of cases, is caused by circulating autoantibodies that block presynaptic voltage-gated calcium channels at the neuromuscular junction. This blockage impairs acetylcholine release which leads to reduced or absent deep tendon reflexes and proximal muscle weakness; the latter improves during exercise as repetitive nerve stimulation increases the amount of ACh in the synaptic cleft. Patients with LEMS may also develop symptoms of autonomic dysfunction such as a dry mouth, constipation, or impotence.

Image File: 1144-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f212ae72b941.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis** - Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) presents with muscle weakness and may rarely be associated with dysautonomia. However, muscle weakness typically is asymmetric and would not improve with exercise as in this patient, but show a progressive course. Since both upper and lower motor neurons are affected in ALS, additional symptoms such as hyperreflexia, fasciculations, cramps, and muscle stiffness would be expected.

**B - Polymyalgia rheumatica** - Polymyalgia rheumatica presents with proximal myopathy; but the main symptoms are myalgia and muscle stiffness, not weakness as in this patient. Systemic symptoms, such as weight loss, may be seen in polymyalgia rheumatica, but autonomic dysfunction and hyporeflexia would not be expected. Polymyalgia rheumatica is not associated with lung cancer.

**C - Myasthenia gravis** - Myasthenia gravis (MG) may cause lower limb muscle weakness. However, symptoms typically worsen throughout the day and with exercise as opposed to the improvement seen upon repetitive stimulation in this patient. MG classically presents with weakness of the extraocular muscles causing ptosis and/or diplopia, whereas deep tendon reflexes and autonomic functions are unaffected. Moreover, MG is not associated with lung cancer but with thymoma and other autoimmune diseases.

**D - Dermatomyositis** - Dermatomyositis presents with proximal muscle weakness. However, symptoms are typically progressive and would not improve with exercise as in this patient. Although dermatomyositis is a paraneoplastic syndrome associated with lung cancer, cutaneous manifestations such as Gottron papules and a heliotrope rash would also be expected. Moreover, dermatomyositis is not associated with hyporeflexia and autonomic dysfunction.

**E - Hypothyroidism** - Hypothyroidism may cause proximal muscle weakness and hyporeflexia. However, it would usually be associated with other symptoms such as weight gain, fatigue, cold intolerance, and dry skin. Weight loss as seen in this patient would be unusual. Hypothyroidism is not associated with lung cancer.

