### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Amphotericin B and flucytosine** - The combination of intravenous amphotericin B and oral flucytosine for at least 2 weeks is used for initial treatment of choice for cryptococcal meningitis. Oral fluconazole is then administered for at least 8 weeks followed by maintenance therapy with lower dose fluconazole for at least 12 months. Because cryptococcal meningitis may lead to death within weeks if left untreated, treatment should be started immediately.

Image File: 1146-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f16d37fccd6c.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cefotaxime and ampicillin** - Patients with bacterial meningitis typically present with fever, headache, and neck stiffness, which this patient has. However, the combination of cefotaxime and ampicillin is used as empiric treatment for community-acquired meningitis in neonates < 1 months old. Adult patients < 50 years of age should receive empiric treatment with vancomycin and ceftriaxone. But this patient has an infection with Cryptococcus neoformans, against which bacterial antibiotics are of no use.

**B - Pyrimethamine, sulfadiazine, and folinic acid** - The combination of pyrimethamine, sulfadiazine, and folinic acid is the treatment of choice for cerebral toxoplasmosis in immunocompromised patients. Cerebral toxoplasmosis typically presents with impaired vigilance, headache, focal neurological deficits, seizures, and fever. Although this patient presents with a positive HIV test and his presentation may mimic cerebral toxoplasmosis, he has CSF findings suggestive of a fungal infection and a positive India ink stain, both of which make the diagnosis of cerebral toxoplasmosis less likely.

**D - Fluconazole** - Fluconazole monotherapy is indicated for maintenance therapy of cryptococcal meningitis once the initial infection has resolved. Fluconazole alone is not sufficient to treat active cryptococcal meningitis.

**E - Vancomycin and meropenem** - The combination of vancomycin and meropenem is used to treat hospital-acquired meningitis, which typically presents with fever, headache, and neck stiffness. This patient has signs of meningitis, but he has no history of recent hospitalization. Moreover, his CSF findings and india ink stain are indicative of a fungal infection with Cryptococcus neoformans, which would not respond to bacterial antibiotics.

**F - Isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol** - The combination of isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol is used to treat an active infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which should be suspected in patients who present with constitutional symptoms (fever, night sweating, weight loss) and pulmonary symptoms (e.g., dyspnea, productive cough lasting > 3 weeks). M. tuberculosis may also spread to the central nervous system, causing tuberculous meningitis, which may present without pulmonary symptoms. Although this patient is immunosuppressed (positive HIV test with low CD4 count) and presents with CSF findings suggestive of fungal or tuberculous meningitis, he does not report having constitutional symptoms and has a positive India ink stain, which suggests another diagnosis.

**G - Valacyclovir** - Intravenous valacyclovir is indicated as soon as herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) is suspected. HSE is typically characterized by a prodromal phase (fever, headache), followed by acute or subacute encephalopathy with symptoms of focal neurological deficits, seizures, altered mental status, and behavioral changes. Although this patient's presentation may mimic HSE, his CSF findings and india ink stain are conclusive of a fungal infection, which would not be responsive to antiviral medications.

