### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Topical therapy with gentamicin, prednisolone, and acetic acid** - Uncomplicated AOE is treated with a topical preparation that contains steroids (e.g., hydrocortisone, betamethasone), an antiseptic (e.g., alcohol, acetic acid), and an antibiotic that is effective against the most common causative bacteria of AOE (e.g., aminoglycoside, fluoroquinolone). Further treatment includes aural toilette to remove debris and NSAIDs for pain relief. The tympanic membrane (TM) must be assessed prior to initiating therapy; if the TM is not intact or cannot be visualized, topical aminoglycosides and aural toilette are contraindicated because of an increased risk of damage to the middle ear. Ear swabs and oral antibiotic therapy should be considered if the patient does not respond to initial therapy, has severe AOE (i.e., completely occluded EAC, fever, cervical lymphadenitis), or has risk factors for malignant otitis externa (e.g., immunosuppression, diabetes mellitus).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ear swabs, blood cultures, CT scan of the temporal bone, and systemic therapy with intravenous ciprofloxacin** - An extensive diagnostic workup and intravenous ciprofloxacin are required in patients suspected to have malignant otitis externa (MOE). Severe ear pain and otorrhea, which this patient has, are typical manifestations of this condition. However, this patient has no risk factors for MOE (e.g., immunosuppression, diabetes mellitus), and otoscopic examination shows no evidence of granulation tissue, which would be expected in this condition.

**B - Ear swabs and topical therapy with clotrimazole and acetic acid** - Clotrimazole ear drops are recommended for the treatment of fungal otitis externa, which manifests with ear pain and otorrhea, as seen in this patient. However, this condition is characterized by excessive ear itching, which is not seen here. Antifungal therapy for AOE is indicated if the initial therapy is insufficient or if features suggestive of fungal infection (e.g., fungal filaments and spores) are seen on otoscopy. Moreover, ear swabs are only performed if the patient does not respond to initial therapy or in cases of severe AOE (i.e., completely occluded EAC, fever), whereas this patient has uncomplicated AOE.

**C - Systemic therapy with oral amoxicillin-clavulanate** - Oral amoxicillin-clavulanate is the first-line therapy for acute otitis media (AOM) because of its efficacy against Streptococcus pneumonia and Haemophilus influenzae, the most common causal pathogens of AOM. AOM can manifest with ear pain and otorrhea, as seen in this patient. However, AOM is also characterized by a red bulging tympanic membrane on otoscopy, which is not seen here. This patient has AOE, and amoxicillin-clavulanate is not effective against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, the most common cause of acute otitis externa (AOE).

**D - Topical therapy with betamethasone and acetic acid, and systemic therapy with oral ciprofloxacin** - Topical therapy with a steroid and an antiseptic is recommended as part of the treatment for uncomplicated AOE, which this patient has. However, systemic therapy with oral ciprofloxacin is only indicated in patients with AOE and immunosuppression, diabetes mellitus, or severe otitis externa with cellulitis of the face and neck, or if topical administration is not possible or ineffective. Topical antibiotic treatment is preferred in this patient.

