### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG)** - Treatment for Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS) consists of high-dose IVIG, supportive therapy, and, in some cases, plasmapheresis. The exact mechanism by which IVIG improves symptoms is not fully understood, but it is most likely due to an interaction with the immune cells and subsequent normalization of the immune reaction. Severe paralysis can lead to cardiac arrhythmias (e.g., asystole, bradycardia, tachyarrhythmias) as well as respiratory insufficiency, requiring subsequent intubation and mechanical ventilation. Because paralysis can spread quickly, monitoring of cardiac and respiratory function is absolutely vital.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous vancomycin and cefotaxime** - Intravenous vancomycin and cefotaxime (or another third-generation cephalosporin) can be used in combination as the empiric treatment for bacterial meningitis in children > 1 month old and adults < 50 years old. The classic triad of meningitis includes fever, headaches, and neck stiffness, none of which is currently seen in this patient. Although meningitis may cause focal neurological deficits, it would not manifest with ascending paralysis. In addition, CSF analysis in bacterial meningitis typically shows granulocytosis, decreased glucose concentration, and elevated protein; albuminocytologic dissociation is not characteristic of this condition.

**B - Oral pyridostigmine** - Pyridostigmine is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor used in the treatment of myasthenia gravis (MG). Although MG also causes muscular weakness, it typically manifests in adults and involves weakness of the ocular (diplopia), bulbar (dysphagia), and proximal limb muscles. Most importantly, MG does not cause any sensory symptoms.

**D - Oral prednisone** - Prednisone is a corticosteroid used in the treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS), which may manifest with paralysis and/or sensory disturbances. However, MS does not have an ascending, bilateral pattern and it would be very unlikely in a 10-year-old boy. Because of the immune-mediated origin of GBS, corticosteroids were formerly believed to be effective against it. However, recent studies have shown that treatment with corticosteroids is not beneficial in GBS and may even be associated with worse outcomes.

**E - Intravenous botulinum antitoxin** - Botulism antitoxin is used in the treatment of botulism, which manifests with descending paralysis – not ascending paralysis. Botulism is not associated with a recent URI; instead, recent consumption of canned foods, honey (in infants), or IV drug use would be expected.

**F - Intravenous acyclovir** - Intravenous acyclovir is used for treating HSV encephalitis, which manifests with neurological symptoms such as focal deficits, seizures, altered mental status, and behavioral changes. However, bilateral ascending paralysis and sensory disturbances would not be expected.

**G - Oral gabapentin** - Gabapentin is an anticonvulsant that may be used to treat neuropathic pain in GBS. The majority of patients with GBS develop neuropathic pain that requires treatment during the course of disease. However, gabapentin is not the first step in management and treatment should not be initiated until neuropathic pain occurs.

