### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Administer rabies immunoglobulin and vaccine** - Rabies postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) is indicated in all nonimmunized individuals after potential exposure to rabies because of the fatal progression of the disease once it becomes symptomatic. Animal bites may not be readily apparent on physical examination and some patients, such as children, may not be able to reliably report direct contact with the animal. Therefore, any possibility of contact (in this case, a bat in the patient's bedroom) warrants immediate rabies PEP when the animal is not available for testing. PEP consists of one dose of rabies immunoglobulin on the day of exposure and 4 doses of inactivated rabies vaccine on days 0, 3, 7, and 14 after exposure.

Image File: 1152-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58a2154daf6d6.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform RT-PCR for rabies RNA** - An RT-PCR for rabies RNA can be used for the diagnosis of rabies and usually requires multiple samples from saliva, CSF, serum, and skin. However, rabies RNA is only detectable when the disease becomes symptomatic, at which point the outcome is almost always fatal. In a patient in whom exposure is suspected or cannot be ruled out, a different intervention is required.

**B - Administer rabies immunoglobulin** - Postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) with rabies immunoglobulin (Ig) is indicated in all nonimmunized patients who have been potentially exposed to rabies. However, the administration of rabies Ig alone only provides temporary protection and does not induce an adequate immune response in these patients. A different PEP regimen should be considered in this case.

**D - Reassurance and observation only** - A bite from a vaccinated domestic carnivore or domestic herbivore does not usually require any further action. However, any suspected direct contact with a known wild reservoir of rabies, such as bats, requires immediate intervention because of the extremely high fatality rate and limited treatment options for this disease.

**E - Administer rabies vaccine** - Postexposure prophylaxis with rabies vaccine should be considered in all previously vaccinated patients who have potentially been exposed to rabies. As the rabies vaccine is not part of the regular immunization schedule in the US, it is unlikely that this patient has already received it. Therefore, a different intervention is required.

