### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Ptosis** - Ptosis occurs in patients with oculomotor nerve palsy because the levator palpebrae superioris muscle is innervated by the oculomotor nerve. Whereas patients with oculomotor nerve palsy due to compression usually show dilated pupils, those with diabetic mononeuropathy normally do not have pupillary involvement because the microangiopathy typically involves the vasa nervorum within the oculomotor nerve, while the pial blood vessels (which supply the superficial parasympathetic fibers) are usually spared.

Image File: 1153-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_605cb20428d76.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Dilated and fixed pupil** - A dilated and fixed pupil in a patient with an oculomotor nerve palsy is typically seen with compression (e.g., from an aneurysm, or tentorial herniation) or complete transection of the oculomotor nerve (e.g., base of the skull fractures) because the parasympathetic fibers that control pupillary constriction are located superficially on the oculomotor nerve. However, there is no clinical or radiological evidence of elevated intracranial pressure and/or hemiparesis to suggest tentorial herniation, or a history of trauma to suggest a skull base fracture; aneurysms only account for ∼ 5% of cases of isolated oculomotor nerve palsy.

**C - Miosis and anhidrosis** - Miosis and anhidrosis are seen in patients with preganglionic and central Horner's syndrome. Although patients with severe long-standing diabetes mellitus may present with Horner's syndrome as a result of diabetic autonomic neuropathy, Horner's syndrome is not typically associated with oculomotor nerve palsy.

Image File: 1153-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_56b9f64adb371.jpg

**D - Bitemporal hemianopsia** - Bitemporal hemianopsia occurs with lesions that compress the optic chiasm such as a pituitary adenoma, craniopharyngioma, meningioma, or a hypothalamic glioma. A tumor at the optic chiasm is unlikely to cause an isolated CN III palsy. Also, the MRI is normal in this patient and does not reveal a sellar tumor.

**E - Positive swinging-flashlight test** - A positive swinging flashlight test indicates a relative afferent pupillary defect. An afferent pupillary defect is caused by retinal and/or optic nerve lesions (e.g., central retinal vessel occlusion, extensive retinal detachment, optic neuritis), and not by lesions of the oculomotor nerve, which transmits the efferent impulses of the pupillary reflex. A patient with an afferent pupillary defect would also have decreased visual acuity in the affected eye, whereas this patient has 20/20 vision in both eyes.

