### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - D** - Rapidly progressing mental decline combined with myoclonus and mutism, as seen in this patient, are typical clinical findings in patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. The disease has a rapid course that often leads to death within 12 months.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - Although Alzheimer disease initially presents with short term memory loss and temporospatial disorientation, as seen in this patient, impaired naming and language comprehension, as well as mood and behavioral changes would also be prominent. Myoclonus, as seen in this patient, does not occur in early stages of Alzheimer disease. Most importantly, Alzheimer disease has an insidious onset and progresses slowly over several years, whereas this patient's symptoms progressed rapidly within 2 months.

**B - B** - Parkinson disease may present with signs of dementia, but the hallmark findings of Parkinson disease are bradykinesia, rigidity, and tremor, which are absent in this patient.

Image File: 1154-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d78ff4d8ae7a.jpg

**C - C** - Huntington disease (HD) presents with movement abnormalities and the defining symptom is chorea, which is absent in this patient. Furthermore, myoclonus is an atypical symptom of HD that occurs only rarely. Neuropsychiatric symptoms such as dementia and apathy can occur but appear at advanced stages, making it an unlikely diagnosis in this patient.

**E - E** - Although amyotrophic lateral sclerosis typically presents in patients between 50 and 60 years and may cause cognitive impairment in some patients, memory loss is not a typical early finding in this disease. Additionally, ALS presents with asymmetric limb weakness, fasciculations, cramps, and muscle stiffness, which are absent in this patient.

**F - F** - Multiple sclerosis may present in some patients with memory deficits but this usually occurs as a very late feature. Additionally, MS typically presents with impaired vision, color blindness, Lhermitte sign, absence of abdominal reflex, and signs of upper motor neuron dysfunction (e.g., spasticity, positive Babinski sign), none of which are present in this patient.

**G - G** - Patients with Wilson disease may present with cognitive impairment and myoclonus, but neurologic features, such as dysarthria, parkinsonism, and drooling, are much more common. Other typical findings of Wilson disease, such as liver damage and Kayser-Fleischer rings are also absent. Finally, the disease typically appears in patients < 35 years of age.

**H - H** - Normal pressure hydrocephalus may present with signs of dementia, but clinical features also include gait disturbances and urinary incontinence, which this patient lacks. Additionally, normal pressure hydrocephalus usually presents in older patients (> 60 years of age) or as a consequence of CNS infections and intracranial hemorrhages.

**I - I** - Frontotemporal dementia is characterized by early changes in personality and behavior (e.g., inappropriate social behavior) while memory and orientation initially remain intact, making it an unlikely diagnosis in this patient.

