### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Perform a bedside swallowing test** - A bedside swallowing test is used to screen for dysphagia and should be performed in all patients with ALS. This condition affects upper and lower motor neurons and can manifest with pseudobulbar palsy as well as bulbar palsy, which both result in dysphagia. This symptom increases the risk for aspiration and/or insufficient fluid and food intake, leading to complications of ALS (e.g., aspiration pneumonia, weight loss). If the bedside swallowing test is positive, a formal swallowing study, such as a videofluoroscopic swallowing examination, is required to confirm the diagnosis. Patients with ALS and swallowing difficulties may need specialized nutritional support (e.g., pureed food, thickened liquids, nasogastric tube, percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy). Bedside swallowing test is also performed in other neurological conditions that manifest with dysphagia, such as Parkinson disease, acute stroke, and Guillain-Barré syndrome.

As well as performing a bedside swallowing test, the patient's DNR wishes should be evaluated; ALS can result in cognitive impairment in the later stages and DNR wishes need to be determined while the patient's mental faculties are intact.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Initiate noninvasive ventilation** - Noninvasive ventilation is indicated in patients with ALS with respiratory failure (e.g., orthopnea, vital capacity < 50%). This patient does not have symptoms of respiratory insufficiency (e.g., tachypnea, hypoxemia).

**B - Perform genetic testing** - Genetic testing for specific ALS-causing mutations is useful in identifying familial ALS, which accounts for up to 10% of all ALS cases. Genetic testing is indicated in patients with a family history of ALS or juvenile-onset ALS, neither of which have been reported here.

**C - Initiate amitriptyline therapy** - Amitriptyline can be used to treat patients with ALS who present with features of depression or pseudobulbar affect. This patient does not have symptoms of depression and mental status examination shows a normal affect.

**E - Perform percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy** - Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy is indicated in patients with ALS who have symptomatic dysphagia or significant weight loss, none of which are seen here.

