### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Laser photocoagulation** - This patient's fundoscopic exam indicates proliferative diabetic retinopathy, a long-term complication of diabetes. The metabolic imbalance caused by high blood glucose levels leads to the death of retinal microvascular cells and capillary dysfunction, causing ischemia. The release of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) by dying cells promotes neovascularization of the retina and disc. These new vessels are very fragile and may hemorrhage, interfering with the transmission of light. Neovascularization can also cause retinal detachment and scarring. In addition to aggressive glucose and blood pressure control, retinal photocoagulation is traditionally recommended once proliferative features are seen on fundoscopy. Laser photocoagulation helps reduce the progression of neovascularization and decrease the risk of vision loss. Therapy with VEGF inhibitors may also be recommended, particularly in patients with significant macular edema.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous acetazolamide therapy** - IV acetazolamide is used to treat increased cranial pressure (e.g., pseudotumor cerebri) or acute retinal artery occlusion. An increased ICP would manifest with bilateral papilledema, flame-shaped retinal hemorrhages, and cotton-wool spots on fundoscopy. Acute retinal artery occlusion would demonstrate retinal whitening (due to ischemia) and narrow vessels with a red-appearing fovea centralis (i.e., cherry-red spot). Neither of these conditions would show neovascularization, as seen in this patient.

Image File: 1158-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57befcee76966.jpg

**B - Topical timolol therapy** - Topical timolol is used to reduce the intraocular pressure of patients with open-angle glaucoma. Timolol acts by slowing visual field loss and optic disc changes. However, the fundoscopic exam of a patient with open-angle glaucoma would show notching of the neuroretinal rim, disc hemorrhages, and most specifically, cupping and pallor of the optic disc. Neovascularization would not be found.

Image File: 1158-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5769bf9ce1644.jpg

**D - Oral ganciclovir therapy** - Oral ganciclovir is used to treat cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis. Fundoscopic findings of patients with CMV retinitis include a so-called “pizza-pie” appearance of the retina (e.g., retinal hemorrhages, fluffy/granular white opacities around retinal vessels resembling cotton-wool spots, retinal detachment), but neovascularization is not typically found. Moreover, CMV retinitis manifests with floaters, photopsia, and/or visual field defects (due to retinal detachment).

Image File: 1158-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59bc0e2078ba5.jpg

**E - Ocular massage** - An ocular massage is useful for patients with acute retinal artery occlusion. Repetitive pressure to the sclera can dislodge emboli, leading to improved vision. Affected individuals show retinal whitening (due to ischemia) and narrow vessels with a red-appearing fovea centralis (i.e., cherry-red spot) on fundoscopy, but not neovascularization, as seen here.

Image File: 1158-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b376d19bb2d9.jpg

**F - Surgical vitrectomy** - Surgical vitrectomy is commonly performed in patients with retinal detachments, which can be a complication of neovascularization. However, fundoscopy would show a gray-colored, freshly detached retina, a retinal tear, or a detached retina floating freely in the vitreous body that moves with eye movement (affected individuals complain of floaters), none of which are seen in this patient.

Image File: 1158-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_509eed8615bd1.jpg

