### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Intravenous lorazepam** - Intravenous benzodiazepines such as lorazepam are the first-line therapy for both the retarded and excited forms of nonmalignant catatonia. If nonmalignant catatonia fails to respond to benzodiazepine therapy within a week, electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is indicated. For malignant catatonia and for nonmalignant catatonia due to a mood disorder with psychotic features, as seen here, ECT is a first-line treatment; however, benzodiazepine therapy must still be initiated while preparations for ECT are being made. The underlying psychiatric condition must also be treated with appropriate pharmacotherapy with the exception of antipsychotic therapy (dopamine blocking drugs), which should only be initiated after catatonia resolves. Additionally, patients with catatonia should receive DVT prophylaxis, preventive measures against pressure ulcers, adequate hydration, and if necessary, specialized nutrition support.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hemodialysis** - Hemodialysis is the treatment for severe lithium toxicity, which can manifest acutely with behavioral changes including speech impairment. However, features of catatonia, as seen here, would not be expected. Instead, patients present with confusion, seizures, ataxia, neuromuscular excitability (hyperreflexia, tremors), and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting).

**C - Intravenous benztropine** - Benztropine is not used to treat catatonia but rather acute dystonia, akathisia, and bradykinesia, which are extrapyramidal side effects of typical antipsychotics like haloperidol. Acute dystonia, which occurs hours to days after initiating haloperidol, can cause muscle stiffness, abnormal position of the head and neck (due to torticollis), and speech impairment (due to spasm of the jaw, tongue and/or laryngeal muscles). However, patients with extrapyramidal side effects from antipsychotics would be responsive, unlike this patient with mutism, stupor, and negativism.

**D - Intramuscular aripiprazole** - Aripiprazole, an atypical antipsychotic, can be used to treat manic episodes of bipolar disorder. Although treatment of the underlying psychiatric disorder is a part of the treatment of catatonia, dopamine blocking drugs such as antipsychotics should be avoided until catatonia resolves. Moreover, this patient has already experienced a decline in manic symptoms as a result of haloperidol therapy; additional antipsychotic therapy is not indicated.

**E - Intravenous dantrolene** - Dantrolene is not used to treat catatonia, which is seen here. Instead, it is indicated for malignant hyperthermia and neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS). NMS can occur a few days following the administration of antipsychotics such as haloperidol and cause catatonic features. However, patients with NMS would have fever, diaphoresis, and autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, tachypnea), none of which is present here.

**F - Oral cyproheptadine** - Oral cyproheptadine is used to treat serotonin syndrome, which can also cause resistance to passive movements on examination (due to muscle rigidity). Features of retarded catatonia, such as waxy flexibility, posturing, mutism, and negativism, would not be expected. Instead, patients would have psychomotor agitation, neuromuscular excitability (hyperreflexia, tremors), fever, diaphoresis, and autonomic instability (tachycardia, tachypnea), which are not seen here. Moreover, serotonin syndrome typically occurs due to a combination of two or more serotonergic drugs, e.g., antidepressants, tramadol, triptans, ondansetron, meperidine, and dextromethorphan. Haloperidol (a typical antipsychotic) and lithium are not serotonergic drugs.

