### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Mycobacterium tuberculosis** - Mycobacterium tuberculosis can cause tuberculous meningitis in immunocompromised adults, most commonly due to reactivation of latent tuberculosis (TB). Patients with HIV infection and a CD4 count < 400/mm3 are at increased risk of developing reactivation TB; the risk of CNS involvement is increased in patients with a CD4 count < 100/mm3, as seen here. CSF findings typically include moderately elevated opening pressure, cell count between 30–300/mm3 with lymphocyte predominance, elevated protein concentration, and decreased glucose concentration, all of which are seen here. The presence of acid-fast bacilli on CSF and/or a CSF culture positive for M. tuberculosis confirms the diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Streptococcus pneumoniae** - Streptococcus pneumoniae is the single most common cause of bacterial meningitis among adults in the US. However, meningitis caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae usually has a more sudden onset than what is seen in this patient, and CSF analysis typically reveals elevated cell count (> 1000/mm3) with neutrophil predominance, rather than lymphocyte predominance. Moreover, this patient should have received the pneumococcal vaccination, which is recommended for all adults ≥ 65 years of age and individuals < 65 years of age with certain high-risk conditions, such as immunosuppression.

**B - Listeria monocytogenes** - Listeria monocytogenes is the most common cause of bacterial meningitis in immunocompromised individuals and often manifests with focal neurological deficits, such as cranial nerve palsies. However, meningitis caused by Listeria monocytogenes usually has a more sudden onset than what is seen here, and CSF analysis typically reveals elevated cell count (> 1000/mm3) with neutrophil predominance, rather than lymphocyte predominance.

**C - Herpes simplex virus** - Herpes simplex virus can cause meningitis, especially in immunocompromised individuals like this patient. CSF findings in viral meningitis typically include a leukocyte count of 10–500/mm3 with lymphocyte predominance, similar to this patient's findings. However, in contrast to what is seen here, viral meningitis usually has a more abrupt onset and the CSF glucose concentration is normal or only slightly decreased. More commonly, herpes simplex virus cause herpes encephalitis, which typically manifests with a prodrome of headaches and fever, followed by sudden focal neurological deficits, seizures, and altered mental status.

**D - Toxoplasma gondii** - Toxoplasma gondii can cause cerebral toxoplasmosis, which typically affects patients with HIV/AIDS with a CD4 count < 100/mm3, as seen in this case. Cerebral toxoplasmosis can manifest with fever, headache, altered mental status, and focal neurological deficits, all of which are seen in this patient. However, CT typically shows multiple ring-enhancing lesions (brain abscesses) rather than the basilar meningeal thickening seen here.

**F - Coxsackievirus** - Coxsackievirus is a common cause of viral meningitis. CSF findings in viral meningitis typically include a leukocyte count of 10–500/mm3 with lymphocyte predominance, similar to this patient's findings. However, in contrast to what is seen here, viral meningitis usually has a more abrupt onset, and the CSF glucose concentration is normal or only slightly decreased. Focal neurological deficits, such as cranial nerve palsies, would not be expected.

