### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Penicillamine** - A chelating agent such as penicillamine is the treatment of choice to reduce the extremely high levels of copper in patients with Wilson disease. Treatment should be administered gradually over the course of 3–6 months. Once acute treatment is completed and copper levels are closer to normal, maintenance therapy with a low copper diet and either low-dose penicillamine or zinc salts is used. In patients who cannot tolerate penicillamine for acute treatment, trientine or zinc salts may be used.

Image File: 1161-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d1e11712a8a3.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Propranolol** - Propranolol is a first-line treatment for essential tremor, the most common cause of tremor. Essential tremor is also an action tremor and commonly affects the hands. Vocal muscle involvement can cause a tremulous voice, which can be mistaken for dysarthria. However, the tremor is typically symmetric and would not explain this patient's other findings (e.g., drooling, affect change, ocular findings). Additionally, the wing-beating tremor seen in this patient is not typical of essential tremor.

**C - Deferoxamine** - Deferoxamine is the treatment of choice for acute iron poisoning, which occurs after ingestion of iron supplements (e.g., multivitamins) either unintentionally (children) or intentionally (adults). Acute iron poisoning typically presents within hours of ingestion with abdominal pain, nausea, and hematemesis, due to direct effects on the GI mucosa. The onset and nature of this patient's symptoms are not consistent with iron toxicity. Deferoxamine is also occasionally used to treat hemochromatosis, a condition that leads to abnormal iron deposition in specific organs. This patient's condition is more likely caused by copper accumulation in the body.

**D - Prednisone** - Glucocorticoids (e.g., prednisone) are indicated as acute treatment for many autoimmune neurologic diseases (e.g., Sydenham chorea, multiple sclerosis). Sydenham chorea resulting from rheumatic fever presents with abnormal rhythmic/jerking movements in children following streptococcal infection. No other autoimmune neurologic diseases commonly cause tremor. The wing-flapping postural tremor in this adult patient makes another non-autoimmune disease much more likely.

**E - Levodopa** - Levodopa is the treatment of choice for Parkinson disease (PD), which causes resting tremor, affect changes, and falls. However, PD is associated with a shuffling gait, rather than this patient's broad-based gait, and it would not explain this patient's ocular findings, drooling, or hyperreflexia. Moreover, tremor caused by PD improves with activity, whereas this patient's tremor is exacerbated by it. Finally, PD primarily affects older adults and the elderly.

