### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - B** - A patient who opens their eyes to pain, makes incomprehensible sounds, and has decorticate posture (or abnormal flexion) would receive a total GCS score of 7 (2 for eye-opening, 2 for a verbal response, and 3 for motor response). GCS assessment is part of the primary trauma survey in any trauma patient to evaluate neurological status, consciousness, and degree of brain injury. A GCS score of ≤ 8 indicates severe brain injury with a decreasing level of consciousness, which requires emergency endotracheal intubation to protect the patient's airway and reduce the risk of aspiration of gastric contents.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - A trauma patient who opens their eyes to verbal command, is oriented, and obeys commands would receive a GCS score of 14 (3 for eye-opening, 5 for verbal response, and 6 for motor response). A GCS score of 14 indicates only mild head injury and would not be an indication for endotracheal intubation

**C - C** - A trauma patient who opens their eyes to verbal command, speaks confused or disoriented words, and localizes pain would receive a GCS score of 12 (3 for eye-opening, 4 for verbal response, and 5 for motor response). A GCS score of 12 indicates only mild head injury and would not be an indication for endotracheal intubation.

**D - D** - A trauma patient who opens their eyes to pain and makes incomprehensible sounds but obeys commands would receive a GCS score of 10 (2 for eye-opening, 2 for verbal response, and 6 for motor response). A GCS score of 10 indicates moderate head injury and would not be an indication for endotracheal intubation.

**E - E** - A trauma patient who opens their eyes spontaneously, speaks inappropriate words, and withdraws from pain would receive a GCS score of 11 (4 for eye-opening, 3 for verbal response, and 4 for motor response). A GCS score of 11 indicates moderate head injury and would not be an indication for endotracheal intubation.

