### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Otosclerosis** - Otosclerosis is the most likely diagnosis in patients between the ages of 20 and 40 years who present with the constellation of tinnitus and insidious bilateral conductive hearing loss. About 25% of patients with otosclerosis also report mild vertigo (often described by patients as “dizziness”). Patients with otosclerosis are commonly able to hear better in noisy rather than quiet surroundings (paracusis of Willis) and characteristically develop a soft, monotonous speech. Occasionally, a reddish hue can be seen through the tympanic membrane (Schwartze sign) reflecting an active otosclerotic focus.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Noise-induced hearing loss** - Musicians are at increased risk for noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL), which is often accompanied by tinnitus. However, the type of hearing loss in NIHL would be sensorineural (positive Rinne test), and dizziness would not be expected.

**B - Paget disease of bone** - Paget disease of bone can lead to low back pain, and involvement of the skull can result in bilateral conductive hearing loss, as seen here. However, most cases of Paget's disease of bone present in older patients (> 55 years) and skull involvement would classically result in other symptoms such as headache and/or skull enlargement (e.g., a poorly fitting hat!).

**C - Drug-induced ototoxicity** - Chronic aspirin use can cause reversible tinnitus, vertigo (often described by patients as “dizziness”), and hearing loss. However, drug-induced ototoxicity typically presents with sensorineural hearing loss (positive Rinne test), not conductive hearing loss.

**D - Presbycusis** - Presbycusis is one of the most common causes of insidious hearing loss. However, presbycusis typically occurs in patients older than 50 years and causes sensorineural hearing loss (positive Rinne test), not conductive hearing loss.

**E - Endolymphatic hydrops** - Meniere disease (endolymphatic hydrops) would result in vertigo (often described by patients as “dizziness”), hearing loss, and tinnitus. However, vertigo in patients with Meniere disease is very severe, usually accompanied by nausea and/or vomiting, and typically the predominant symptom. Hearing loss in patients with Meniere disease is usually episodic; it typically begins before and during the attack of “dizziness” and abates afterward.

**G - Diabetic otopathy** - Diabetic otopathy, which can occur in patients with long-standing diabetes mellitus, would result in insidious bilateral hearing loss, vertigo (often described by patients as “dizziness”), and/or tinnitus. However, the type of hearing loss in diabetic otopathy is sensorineural (positive Rinne test), not conductive.

