### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - CT scan of the temporal bone** - Mastoiditis is a severe complication of acute otitis media that usually presents with persistent or recurrent symptoms of otitis media after initial improvement, profuse ear discharge, a tender and edematous mastoid, and anterolateral protrusion of the auricle. Otoscopy should always be performed first, as it is readily available and can help to evaluate the tympanic membrane for inflammatory signs. Mastoiditis should usually be confirmed via CT scan of the temporal bone. Typical findings include opacification of the mastoid air cells, erosion of the air cell walls, and pus in the mastoid cavity seen as areas of enhancement. Treatment of mastoiditis consists of intravenous antibiotic treatment (e.g., with vancomycin) as well as tympanostomy and subsequent tympanostomy tube insertion in mild cases or mastoidectomy in more severe cases.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Topical 0.3% ciprofloxacine therapy** - Topical ciprofloxacin is used for the treatment of acute otitis externa and bilateral otitis media in children undergoing tympanostomy tube placement. It is not used in the treatment of mastoiditis, nor would topical therapy be indicated. Regardless, therapy should only be initiated after the diagnosis has been confirmed.

**B - Tympanostomy tube placement** - Tympanostomy and subsequent tympanostomy tube insertion are part of the treatment for early stages of mastoiditis and might be indicated in this patient. However, the diagnosis should be confirmed first.

**C - Phenylephrine nasal drops therapy** - Phenylephrine nasal drops are used as nasal decongestants in allergic rhinitis or viral upper respiratory infections. They are not indicated for the treatment of mastoiditis and not FDA-approved for children under 2 years of age.

**D - Magnetic resonance imaging of the temporal bone** - MRI of the temporal bone is not a preferred imaging modality in the diagnosis of mastoiditis and is only indicated if accompanying intracranial complications (e.g., abscess) are suspected. A different step in management is more appropriate at this time.

**F - Oral amoxicillin therapy** - Amoxicillin is a penicillin antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections such as those of the upper and lower respiratory tract and ear infections. It is considered the first-line treatment for acute otitis media, but other antibiotic regimens administered intravenously are indicated for mastoiditis. Vancomycin is used in patients who have not recently received antibiotics and who do not have a history of recurrent acute otitis media. Vancomycin + ceftazidime/cefepime or piperacillin-tazobactam is used in patients with recent antibiotic use or who have experienced an episode of acute otitis media within the last 6 months. In this patient, the diagnosis should be confirmed before antibiotic treatment is initiated.

**G - Oral aspirin therapy** - The patient suffers from fever and otalgia (ear pain) and should, therefore, receive analgesic and antipyretic therapy. However, aspirin should not be used in children under the age of 15 because of an association with Reye syndrome. Better options in children include ibuprofen and acetaminophen.

