### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Cranial nerve palsy** - Cranial nerve palsy, most commonly Bell palsy, is often a finding of early disseminated (stage II) Lyme disease. Other features of this stage of Lyme disease include migratory arthralgia, polyneuropathy, meningitis, and the risk of developing cardiac arrhythmia due to an atrioventricular block. This patient should have an urgent electrocardiogram to evaluate for an AV block in the setting of his bradycardia.

Image File: 1172-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fc7d0f88f7d9.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Glomerular damage** - Glomerular damage can be indicative of Henoch-Schönlein purpura (HSP), which can manifest with both arthritis and a rash. The rash of HSP, however, is typically described as raised, erythematous, symmetrically distributed macules or urticarial lesions which coalesce into palpable purpura (non-blanching skin lesions). This patient's rash does not fit this description. In addition, HSP typically presents after an upper respiratory infection; this patient has no history of a recent illness.

**C - Heart valve stenosis** - Heart valve stenosis can be a complication of rheumatic fever and could present similarly to this patient, with fatigue, migratory arthritis, a circular rash (erythema marginatum), and possibly, bradycardia. However, this patient does not have the typical history of a prior Streptococcus pyogenes infection. Additionally, rheumatic fever is increasingly less common in developed countries because of improved hygiene standards, a decline in infections by rheumatogenic strains of streptococci, and the routine use of antibiotics for streptococcal pharyngitis. A different diagnosis is much more likely given the recent history of camping.

**D - Bone marrow failure** - Bone marrow failure can be indicative of an aplastic crisis, which is a complication of a parvovirus B19 infection. Parvovirus B19 can manifest with both arthritis and dermatitis; however, children are more likely to develop the “slapped cheek rash” without joint involvement, while adults often develop symmetrical polyarthritis (fingers, hands, knees, and ankles) without dermatologic manifestations. This patient's migratory, asymmetric arthritis of the large joints is more likely to have a different cause.

**E - Liver capsule inflammation** - Liver capsule inflammation can be a finding of Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome, a rare complication of pelvic inflammatory disease secondary to gonorrhea. While disseminated gonococcal infection can also present with migratory arthritis and dermatitis, the rash is expected to be pustular or vesicular and accompanied by tenosynovitis. Furthermore, Fitz-Hugh-Curtis syndrome occurs almost exclusively in women.

