### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Cryptococcus neoformans** - Slow-onset malaise, low-grade fever, and headache associated with nausea and vomiting, combined with a low CD4+ T-lymphocyte count, should raise concern for cryptococcal meningoencephalitis, an AIDS-defining illness caused by Cryptococcus neoformans that usually occurs only in patients with a CD4+ count < 100 cells/mm3. Cryptococcal meningoencephalitis can develop following an initial pulmonary infection, which may be asymptomatic or manifest as pulmonary cryptococcosis with dyspnea, a productive cough, and night sweats. The fungus is commonly transmitted via soil or pigeon droppings.

In patients with suspected cryptococcal meningoencephalitis, neuroimaging should be performed to rule out mass lesions; MRI findings may include gelatinous pseudocysts of the basal ganglia in some patients. In cryptococcal meningoencephalitis, CSF analysis typically shows increased opening pressure, a lymphocyte-predominant cell count, increased protein concentration, and decreased glucose concentration. The diagnosis can be established by cryptococcal antigen testing and CSF staining with mucicarmine or India ink. Treatment includes a combination of intravenous amphotericin B and oral flucytosine for at least 2 weeks, followed by oral fluconazole for at least 8 weeks, and maintenance therapy with a reduced dose of fluconazole for at least 12 months.

Image File: 1173-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5992b4cc81ec3.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Herpes simplex virus type 1** - Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) can cause herpes encephalitis, especially in immunocompromised individuals (e.g., those with AIDS). Patients with herpes encephalitis typically have progressive headaches but usually also present with acute neurologic abnormalities such as seizures, behavioral changes, and focal neurologic deficits. MRI of the brain classically shows temporal lobe involvement.

Image File: 1173-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5272a95b94c50.jpg

**C - Coccidioides immitis** - Coccidioides immitis is a dimorphic fungus that causes pulmonary coccidioidomycosis (valley fever), which typically manifests with dyspnea, cough, and night sweats. Immunocompromised individuals (e.g., those with AIDS) can develop coccidioidal meningitis, which causes headache and nausea. However, Coccidioides immitis is endemic to the Southwestern United States, not New York City, and this patient has no known history of recent travel. Moreover, the presence of other common features, such as skin involvement (erythema nodosum or erythema multiforme), would also be expected in a patient with disseminated coccidioidomycosis.

Image File: 1173-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f63518916b0b.jpg

**D - Pneumocystis jirovecii** - Pneumocystis jirovecii is a yeast-like fungus that causes Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) in patients with AIDS and a CD4+ count < 200/mm3. PCP classically manifests with cough, low-grade fever, and malaise, and symptoms typically have a gradual onset over days to weeks. However, PCP does not typically cause nuchal rigidity and progressive headaches, and the cough is usually nonproductive.

**E - JC virus** - Reactivation of latent JC virus infection can cause progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in patients with AIDS and a CD4+ count < 200 cells/mm3. Patients with PML often have headache and nausea but more commonly present with other acute neurologic abnormalities such as altered mental status, motor deficits, ataxia, and visual deficits. MRI of the brain classically shows disseminated, nonenhancing white matter lesions.

Image File: 1173-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f97c0ce621c1.jpg

**F - Toxoplasma gondii** - Reactivation of latent Toxoplasma gondii infection can cause cerebral toxoplasmosis in patients with AIDS and a CD4+ count < 100 cells/mm3, and typically manifests with progressive headache and low-grade fever. Moreover, extracerebral manifestations include pulmonary toxoplasmosis, which can cause dyspnea and cough. However, cerebral toxoplasmosis also typically manifests with seizures and focal neurologic deficits, and MRI or CT of the brain classically shows multiple ring-enhancing lesions in the cerebrum and/or basal ganglia.

Image File: 1173-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e8317144af7d.jpg

