### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Multiple periventricular sclerotic plaques** - This patient's bilateral trigeminal neuralgia is likely due to bilateral demyelination of the trigeminal nerve nuclei secondary to the progression of multiple sclerosis (MS). Patients with MS typically develop episodic, multifocal neurologic deficits due to demyelination at multiple sites of the central nervous system. Multiple periventricular sclerotic plaques are typically seen on MRI of patients with MS due to reactive gliosis (reactive hyperplasia of neuroglial cells like astrocytes) following demyelination.

Image File: 1174-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58aed3ef3415e.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Enhancing lesion in the internal auditory canal** - An enhancing lesion in the internal auditory canal is the typical MRI finding of an acoustic neuroma. Although acoustic neuromas can cause trigeminal neuralgia and/or deficits in the cranial nerve V (due to compression) as seen in this patient (V2/V3 numbness), she does not have any of the classic features of acoustic neuroma such as tinnitus, hearing loss, dizziness, and/or vertigo.

**B - Gingival swelling, erythema, and pus drainage** - Gingival swelling, erythema, and pus drainage would be seen in a dental abscess. While brushing teeth can exacerbate dental pain, the pain is usually continuous, dull or throbbing, and located inside the oral cavity and/or jaw. An abscess would be unlikely to cause sharp paroxysmal facial pain, especially not bilaterally, as seen in this patient. Additionally, fever would likely also be present.

**C - Jaw claudication and unilateral vision loss** - Jaw claudication and unilateral vision loss are seen in giant cell arteritis, which most commonly occurs in the 8th decade of life. It is rarely seen in patients under 50 years of age. In addition, the pain related to giant cell arteritis is typically a pulse-synchronous, throbbing, dull headache over the temples rather than the paroxysmal, severe stabbing facial pain of trigeminal neuralgia seen in this patient.

**E - Erythematous papules in the V2/V3 nerve distribution** - Erythematous papules in the V2/V3 nerve distribution occurs in herpes zoster, which would present with burning, throbbing, or stabbing pain limited to a dermatome. Although herpes zoster can present with bilateral pain in V2/V3, the absence of a vesicular rash is indicative of another diagnosis. Herpes zoster reactivation in the trigeminal nerve may also present with unilateral eye pain, episcleritis, conjunctivitis and progressive vision loss, a condition otherwise known as herpes zoster ophthalmicus.

Image File: 1174-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57dbe124af09f.jpg

**F - Photophobia and phonophobia** - Photophobia and phonophobia are associated with migraine headaches. Although the pathophysiology is unclear, migraines tend to occur after a trigger, last 4–72 hours, and are typically unilateral. Motor function loss is seen in rare causes of hemiplegic migraine, but patients tend to recover within 24 hours. The short duration of this patient's headaches and associated neurological findings is suggestive of another diagnosis.

**G - Rhinorrhea, lacrimination, and ptosis** - Rhinorrhea, lacrimation and ptosis can be seen as a result of autonomic activation associated with cluster headaches. Unlike this patient's presentation, cluster headaches typically present with episodes of severe periorbital or temporal pain that last 15–180 minutes. Episodes are always unilateral but separate episodes can occur bilaterally as seen in this patient. However, cluster headaches do not cause weakness, numbness or spasticity. Additionally, they mostly affect men.

