### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Between the arachnoid mater and the pia mater** - Traumatic brain injury can cause subarachnoid hemorrhage, which is characterized by bleeding between the arachnoid mater and pia mater. Patients classically present with a sudden, severely painful headache, vomiting, loss of consciousness, and, in cases of severe hemorrhage, seizures. Head CT shows hyperdense signals in the area of the hemorrhage, which are seen in the basal cistern in this patient.

Image File: 1175-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ad9a1fafefb.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Into the ventricular system** - Intraventricular hemorrhage typically occurs secondary to intracerebral or subarachnoid hemorrhage but can arise from rare vascular malformations. As with other intracranial bleeds, the characteristic presentation involves sudden onset of headache, vomiting, and altered level of consciousness. However, imaging of the head would show accumulation of blood within the ventricular system, which is not seen on this patient's head CT.

Image File: 1175-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6044d82d475f6.jpg

**B - Between the dura mater and the arachnoid mater** - Shearing of bridging veins causes subdural hemorrhage, which is characterized by bleeding between the dura mater and arachnoid mater. Patients may present with headache and signs of increased ICP immediately following head trauma, as is the case here. However, head CT would show a high-density crescent-shaped collection (in acute cases) or a hypodense crescent-shaped collection (in chronic and subacute cases) across the hemispheric convexity, which crosses the suture lines.

Image File: 1175-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d913c58ff.jpg

**C - Between the skull and the dura mater** - Bleeding between the dura mater and the skull is known as epidural hemorrhage and is often due to traumatic injury to the middle meningeal artery. Epidural hemorrhage should be suspected in any patient with head trauma that causes loss of consciousness, followed by a lucid interval, and subsequent worsening with signs of increased ICP. CT scan of the head would show a characteristic lentiform (lens-shaped) hemorrhagic collection that does not cross suture lines. While this patient does have signs of increased ICP following a trauma, his CT findings suggest a different diagnosis.

Image File: 1175-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93caa457.jpg

**D - Into the cerebral parenchyma** - Bleeding directly into the cerebral parenchyma, known as intracerebral hemorrhage, is typically caused by a spontaneous rupture of vessels secondary to structural changes of the vessel walls (e.g., chronic hypertension, cerebral amyloid angiopathy). Patients often present with headache and focal neurologic deficits such as hemiparesis. However, head trauma rarely leads to intracerebral hemorrhage, and signs of increased ICP are uncommon. Moreover, this patient's head CT is not consistent with intracerebral hemorrhage.

Image File: 1175-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d92a3a9ec.jpg

