### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Physostigmine** - Physostigmine is the first-line treatment for anticholinergic syndrome, as it readily enhances parasympathetic signaling and is able to cross the blood-brain barrier. In addition to the classic findings seen in this patient, overdose of anticholinergic drugs can also cause urinary retention, decreased bowel sounds, and erythematous skin (due to compensatory cutaneous vasodilation from the hyperthermia).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Sodium bicarbonate** - Sodium bicarbonate is used for the treatment of tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) overdose. Overdose with certain TCAs, such as amitriptyline, can manifest almost identically to an anticholinergic overdose, but with the additional finding of ECG abnormalities (e.g., QT prolongation, arrhythmias).

**B - Naloxone** - Naloxone is used for the rapid reversal of an opioid overdose. Though opioid overdose can also cause altered mental status, it also typically manifests with significantly reduced respiratory drive, bradycardia, hypotension, hypothermia, and miosis.

**D - N-acetylcysteine** - N-acetylcysteine is used for the treatment of acetaminophen overdose to restore depleted hepatic glutathione, which is needed for the conjugation and excretion of the toxic acetaminophen metabolites. These patients typically manifest nonspecifically with nausea and vomiting before eventually progressing to liver failure (if not treated), in contrast to the acute, severe reaction seen in this patient.

**E - Glucagon** - Glucagon is used in the treatment of beta blocker overdose, as it activates adenylate cyclase during depolarization, raising intracellular cAMP levels and improving cardiac contractility. Overdose with these drugs typically manifests with pronounced bradycardia, cardiogenic shock, altered mental status, wheezing (due to bronchoconstriction), and hypotension.

**F - Flumazenil** - Flumazenil may be indicated for severe cases of benzodiazepine overdose, which could explain this patient's signs of central nervous system depression, such as decreased respiratory rate and altered mental status. However, benzodiazepine toxicity typically also causes hyporeflexia and does not cause hypertension, elevated temperature, dry skin, or mydriasis.

