### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Acetaminophen therapy** - NSAIDs or acetaminophen are the first-line abortive treatment for children with migraine. These therapies are generally safe and effective for children, with minimal side effects. Abortive therapy should be administered immediately, as it is most effective when taken at the onset of migraine. If the first agent (e.g., acetaminophen) fails to relieve symptoms, the other agent (e.g., an NSAID) may also be given.

Image File: 1177-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5efc86039e129.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Neuro-optometric assessment** - Neuro-optometric assessment would be indicated for suspected refraction error, which may present with headache. Although this patient has myopia, she was recently evaluated and has been wearing corrective lenses; refractive error should not be contributing to her symptoms. In addition, the unilateral, recurrent, throbbing character of her headache suggests migraine, rather than ocular headache. Ocular headaches have a broad clinical presentation, but they tend to occur later in the day, especially after long periods of eye strain (e.g., after reading a book or working on a computer for hours).

Image File: 1177-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b17e4ad3653e.jpg

**B - Lumbar puncture** - Lumbar puncture is indicated to diagnose intracranial infection (e.g., meningitis), hemorrhage, or hypertension, all of which may present with headache. Intracranial infection or hemorrhage present as acute, progressive headache, rather than this patient's chronic, episodic symptoms. Idiopathic intracranial hypertension is common in overweight women of childbearing age, rather than a young girl. Additionally, the headache associated with IIH is usually positional (e.g., exacerbated by leaning forward or lying down) rather than episodic and relieved by sleep as in this patient.

**D - Dihydroergotamine therapy** - Dihydroergotamine is a last resort abortive medication for severe migraine because it has a higher risk of adverse effects compared to other abortive medications. Other medications should be trialed in this patient before dihydroergotamine is indicated.

**E - MRI of the brain** - Brain MRI would be indicated if there was suspicion of an intracranial lesion (e.g., craniopharyngioma) causing this patient's symptoms. Brain imaging should be considered for pediatric patients if: symptoms are chronic and progressive, age < 4 years, and if they have a history of seizure, recent head trauma, change in character of headache, or abnormal neurologic exam findings. Children with a clinical history consistent with typical migraine headaches who have a normal neurologic exam do not require brain imaging.

Image File: 1177-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5bbdef0ca2afb.jpg

**F - Electroencephalography** - Electroencephalography is indicated when there is concern for a seizure disorder, which may sometimes be confused with migraine. Patients with migraine and atypical aura, episodic loss of consciousness, or other symptoms concerning for seizure may require EEG. Patients with a history consistent with typical migraine such as this patient do not require EEG.

**G - Amitriptyline therapy** - Amitriptyline is indicated for migraine prophylaxis, which is used if all abortive medications have failed, or if migraines are very frequent or prolonged. This patient should attempt lifestyle modifications and abortive medication before prophylaxis would be indicated.

**H - Acyclovir therapy** - Acyclovir should be initiated as soon as a herpetic intracranial infection (e.g., HSV encephalitis) is suspected. While this patient's sibling recently had a herpetic infection, patients with HSV encephalitis typically present with a combination of headache, fever, altered mental status, and focal neurologic deficits. This patient's chronic, unilateral, episodic headaches without associated neurologic abnormalities makes herpetic infection highly unlikely.

