### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Pramipexole** - Pramipexole and other dopamine agonists are considered first-line pharmacological therapy for restless leg syndrome. Exacerbation of symptoms with antihistamines is a common finding in patients with RLS. The fact that this patient's brother has similar symptoms and that her iron studies are within the normal range suggests primary RLS. Pharmacologic therapy is reserved for severe cases of RLS in which symptoms results in functional impairment and sleep disturbance, or when symptoms are refractory to behavioral interventions (e.g., sleep hygiene, leg massage) or correction of any iron deficiency (in the case of secondary RLS).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Amitriptyline** - Amitriptyline can be used to treat neuropathic pain (e.g., in polyneuropathy), which is usually worse at night and when resting. Neuropathic pain is typically associated with a burning, pins and needles sensation that becomes worse when affected areas are touched. Also, neuropathic pain is not associated with the urge to move.

**C - Codeine** - Opioids like codeine are used in refractory cases of restless leg syndrome that have not responded to other forms of pharmacotherapy. Long-term maintenance therapy with opioids may lead to tolerance limiting its use over an extended period of time.

**D - Zolpidem** - Benzodiazepine-like substances such as zolpidem may be used to treat sleep disorders. Because they have been associated with an increased frequency of sleepwalking, however, they are generally not recommended in the treatment of RLS.

**E - Propranolol** - Propranolol can be used to treat anxiety disorders. Although this patient does appear anxious, her symptoms of leg discomfort alleviated with movement are not consistent with an isolated anxiety disorder.

**F - Escitalopram** - Escitalopram can be used to treat depression or anxiety. While this patient's difficulty sleeping, stress, and anxious appearance could be seen in patients with depression or an anxiety disorder, her leg discomfort is not consistent with either diagnosis.

