### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Extrinsic impingement of the recurrent laryngeal nerve** - The left recurrent laryngeal nerve winds around the arch of the aorta. Massive enlargement of the left atrium (and potentially also the pulmonary artery) in patients with mitral stenosis can compress this nerve resulting in hoarseness (Ortner syndrome). Other rare complications associated with massive left atrial enlargement are massive hemoptysis due to erosion of the bronchial arteries and esophageal compression (dysphagia megalatriensis).

Image File: 1181-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59bbfd233182a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Carcinoma arising from the mucosa of the larynx** - A squamous cell carcinoma arising from laryngeal mucosa can cause hoarseness, fatigue, dyspnea due to lung metastases and, rarely, hepatomegaly due to liver metastases. However, a laryngeal malignancy would not explain the atrial fibrillation and the diastolic murmur in this patient without risk factors for laryngeal malignancy such as smoking and alcohol consumption.

**C - Bacterial infection of the vocal folds** - Infection of the vocal folds (laryngitis) with bacteria such as Moraxella catarrhalis, Hemophilus influenzae, and Streptococcus pneumoniae can cause hoarseness and fatigue, but the onset of symptoms would be acute, unlike in this patient, who has had symptoms for the past 5 months, and would likely include sore throat or a dry cough. Moreover, laryngitis would not cause exertional dyspnea, fatigue, hepatomegaly, or a diastolic murmur.

**D - Occlusion of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery** - Patients with atrial fibrillation are at increased risk for a thromboembolic stroke, and a stroke in the region of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (lateral medullary syndrome) could cause hoarseness due to nucleus ambiguus infarction and dyspnea due to dorsal vagal nucleus infarction as well as fatigue. However, hoarseness and dyspnea would have been acute and preceded the onset of fatigue by weeks to months (post-stroke fatigue). Moreover, a PICA stroke would also cause other clinical features such as dysphagia, vertigo, nystagmus, ipsilateral ataxia, ipsilateral Horner syndrome, and decreased pain and temperature sensation in one side of the face and the contralateral half of the body.

Image File: 1181-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a4fb5c32b16b.jpg

**E - Laryngeal inflammation due to chemical irritant** - Laryngeal inflammation from acidic gastric contents, which occurs in gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), can cause persistent hoarseness, but it would not cause exertional dyspnea, fatigue, hepatomegaly, or a diastolic murmur. Furthermore, this patient does not have other common features of GERD such as postprandial chest pain, belching, or dry cough.

**F - Circulating acetylcholine receptor antibodies** - Circulating acetylcholine receptor antibodies are seen in patients with myasthenia gravis (MG), which can cause fluctuating fatigue, hoarseness, stridor, and, rarely, dyspnea. The classic presentation of this condition includes diplopia and ptosis that worsen as the day progresses, neither of which have been reported by this patient. In addition, MG would not cause atrial fibrillation, a diastolic murmur, or hepatomegaly.

