### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Intravenous dexamethasone therapy** - Emergent administration of glucocorticoids is indicated for patients with neurologic deficits from spinal cord compression. Glucocorticoids reduce pain, inflammation, and edema, preventing further neurologic damage until definitive treatment is available (e.g., urgent decompression surgery). Patients with spinal cord compression often have such severe pain that thorough neurologic exam and imaging (particularly with MRI) becomes challenging and use of glucocorticoids and analgesics can be helpful for this situation.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Surgical decompression** - Surgical decompression of the spinal cord and resection of the tumor (if operable), is the definitive treatment option in the management of neoplastic spinal cord compression. While it is certainly indicated to improve long-term outcomes, it is not the best first step in management.

**B - Spine stabilization** - Surgical stabilization of the spine in patients with metastatic bone disease can prevent further neurologic or skeletal damage from occurring (compression fracture, etc). While it could improve long-term outcomes (e.g., maintaining ability to walk), it would not be the first step in management.

**C - Radiation therapy** - Radiation therapy is a treatment option for patients with spinal metastases. It can help control local tumor growth and reduce pain. However, because this patient presents with symptoms of cord compression, it is not the first step in management.

**E - Intravenous acyclovir therapy** - Intravenous acyclovir is the treatment for complicated or disseminated varicella-zoster virus infection, which may also present with sharp or burning pain and rarely, neurologic deficits (direct infection of cerebral arteries that may cause ischemia or intracerebral hemorrhage). This patient's duration and progression of symptoms, along with the absence of vesicular rash, make this etiology unlikely.

**F - Intravenous ceftriaxone and azithromycin therapy** - Intravenous ceftriaxone and azithromycin is a commonly used empiric treatment regimen for patients with community-acquired pneumonia, which may also present with productive cough and lung opacities on chest x-ray. However, pneumonia would not explain this patient's neurologic symptoms.

**G - Oral ibuprofen therapy** - NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen, are common analgesic agents for the treatment of back pain and degenerative disc disease. Although NSAIDs can be used as an adjunctive therapy to help control pain in this situation, they are not the best first step for this patient presenting with symptoms of cord compression.

