### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Hearing impairment** - Undetected hearing impairment in children can cause delays in speech, language, and cognitive development. This patient's presentation of apparent inattentiveness and difficulty following directions when directly spoken to, delayed language development (at 4 years, he should be able to speak in at least 4-word sentences), mispronunciation of words (due to poor speech discrimination), and symptoms of frustration (apparently unprovoked episodes of crying and screaming) warrants a thorough evaluation for hearing impairment.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Selective mutism** - Selective mutism is a response to intense anxiety that may appear oppositional and often presents with social phobia. This patient often fails to respond when called and does not follow instructions consistently, but he does not fail to speak in any specific setting, nor does he show signs of anxiety in social situations.

**C - Opposition defiant disorder** - Oppositional defiant disorder (ODD) may also present with problems at home and school/kindergarten, difficulties of following orders/instructions, and frequent outbursts (e.g., unprovoked episodes of crying and screaming). However, this patient lacks other characteristic features of ODD such as excessive arguing, revenge-seeking behavior, and aggression towards figures of authority (e.g., teachers, parents). Instead, he presents with delayed language development, which would be atypical for ODD.

**D - Autistic spectrum disorder** - Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) can present with impaired language development and deficits in social interaction and communication at home and in school, as seen in this patient. However, this patient lacks other characteristic features of autism spectrum disorder such as poor eye contact and repetitive, stereotyped patterns of behavior. Instead, he presents with features of well-adjusted social and emotional behavior (e.g., getting along with friends and family, participating in group activities), which make this diagnosis unlikely.

**E - Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder** - Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) can present with symptoms of inattention and impulsivity as seen in this patient (unprovoked episodes of crying and screaming; not responding when directly spoken to). However, delayed language development is atypical for ADHD and makes a different diagosis more likely.

**F - Specific-learning disorder** - Specific learning disorders (e.g., dyslexia, dyscalculia or impairment in written expression) typically present with poor performance at school, failure to follow instructions, and difficulties in completing tasks. However, this patient only shows impaired attention when directly spoken to and delayed language development (only uses two-to-three word phrases and often mispronounces words), which is more suggestive of a different diagnosis.

**G - Conduct disorder** - Conduct disorder (CD) typically presents with irritable temperament and impulsivity, as seen in this patient (e.g., unprovoked episodes of crying and screaming). However, this patient lacks other characteristic features of CD such as violating the rights of others (e.g., cruelty towards animals, stealing, and destruction of property) and persistent disobedience (this patient follows instructions and participates in group activities). Instead, he presents with delayed language development, which is atypical for CD.

**H - Age-appropriate behavior** - This patient presents with inattention and difficulty following directions when directly spoken to for more than 6 months that severely impairs his language development and affects his behavior as well as social interaction. Such behavior is not age-appropriate and requires full evaluation by a doctor.

