### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Gabapentin therapy** - Gabapentin can be used in the treatment of neuropathic pain, including phantom limb pain. This patient reports episodes of sharp, shooting, and burning pain in her amputated limb, which is consistent with phantom limb pain. Because there is insufficient research on treatment modalities for phantom limb pain, a multimodal approach is typically recommended, including mirror therapy, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, NMDA receptor antagonists, and other adjuvant therapies (e.g., tricyclic antidepressants, anticonvulsants such as gabapentin).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Surgical revision** - Surgical revision is indicated in postsurgical complications, such as residual limb infection, scar formation, or seroma. This patient's residual limb shows mild erythema and warmth of the overlying skin, which is normal during the first two weeks after surgery. Furthermore, she does not have any systemic signs or symptoms of an infection.

**B - Ibuprofen therapy** - Ibuprofen, a nonopioid analgesic, is one of the preferred first-line treatments for mild to moderate pain. This patient's pain symptoms are more consistent with neuropathic pain, for which ibuprofen is not typically effective. Furthermore, this patient has already trialed paracetamol, which was only minimally effective prior to the onset of phantom limb pain.

**C - Spinal cord stimulation** - Spinal cord stimulation is a neuromodulation technique used to relieve chronic neuropathic pain (i.e, lasting > 6 months). It can be used as a second-line treatment for phantom limb pain. As this patient has only had pain for three days, other conservative modalities should be attempted before considering a spinal cord stimulator implant.

**D - Oxycodone therapy** - Oxycodone, an opioid analgesic, is used to treat moderate to severe pain and may be used in the treatment of phantom limb pain. However, this patient's asthma limits the use of opioids, which can trigger bronchospasms. There are safer options that can be used in phantom limb pain.

