### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Compression of the stellate ganglion** - Compression of the stellate ganglion by a Pancoast tumor can lead to Horner syndrome via injury of preganglionic sympathetic fibers. Superior sulcus tumors can infiltrate neighboring structures and cause additional symptoms, which is known as Pancoast syndrome. This patient's shoulder and arm pain are likely symptoms of Pancoast syndrome, which also includes atrophy of the arm and hand muscles, and possibly superior vena cava syndrome and hoarseness due to compression of the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The most common cause of Pancoast syndrome is NSCLC, for which this patient is at risk because of his history of smoking.

Image File: 1189-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_602e5f2d0cb27.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Thrombosis of the cavernous sinus** - Cavernous sinus thrombosis can result in Horner syndrome due to compression of postganglionic sympathetic neurons. However, cavernous sinus thrombosis has additional symptoms that are not present in this case, such as headache, photophobia, proptosis, and other cranial nerve palsies (commonly CN VI). In addition, cavernous sinus thrombosis is most commonly caused by an ascending infection from the face or sinuses, signs of which are not present here. This patient's arm and shoulder pain would likewise not be explained by cavernous sinus thrombosis.

Image File: 1189-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ac798456b1aa.jpg

**B - Aneurysm of the posterior cerebral artery** - Aneurysm of the posterior cerebral artery could compress CN III, which carries parasympathetic fibers to the pupillary sphincter and ciliary muscle, and motor fibers to the levator palpebrae superioris and all extraocular muscles except for the superior oblique muscle and the lateral rectus muscle. Such an aneurysm would result in ptosis, which this patient has, as well as diplopia, a fixed and dilated pupil, and a down-and-out gaze, which are not present here. Rather than mydriasis, this patient has miosis. Furthermore, if such an aneurysm were symptomatic, it would manifest with headache rather than the shoulder and arm pain seen here.

**C - Infarction of the hypothalamus** - Infarction of the hypothalamus is a rare cause of Horner syndrome secondary to injury of centrally located sympathetic neurons. This patient's smoking history is a risk factor for stroke, including infarction of the hypothalamus. However, an infarction of the hypothalamus would likely manifest with additional stroke symptoms, typically contralateral hemiparesis and hypesthesia, as well as impeded homeostatic functions of the hypothalamus (e.g., thermoregulation, electrolyte balance, sleep-wake cycle). Furthermore, infarction of the hypothalamus would not explain this patient's shoulder and arm pain.

**D - Dissection of the carotid artery** - Carotid artery dissection can cause Horner syndrome by compressing the postganglionic sympathetic fibers near the internal carotid artery and damaging them directly or decreasing blood flow to their vasa nervorum. This patient's smoking history is a risk factor for carotid artery dissection. However, carotid artery dissection most often has an acute onset of symptoms following some types of trauma (e.g., blunt trauma), which is not the case here. Furthermore, in addition to Horner syndrome, carotid artery dissection would manifest with headache and/or neck pain, while this patient has shoulder and arm pain.

**F - Infiltration of the cervical plexus** - Infiltration of the cervical plexus, typically by neck soft tissue tumors or lymph node metastases, manifests with pain in the neck and submandibular area, as well as sensory loss in the C2, C3, and C4 dermatomes, symptoms which this patient does not have. It would not be expected to cause Horner syndrome or shoulder and arm pain.

