### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Chiari II malformation** - Chiari II malformation is characterized by the presence of a myelomeningocele along with caudally displaced cerebellar vermis and tonsils, medulla, and fourth ventricle into the upper cervical canal. This caudal displacement can obstruct the flow of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and can lead to an accumulation of CSF within the spinal cord (producing a syrinx), or within the cranium (causing hydrocephalus). Patients often present in childhood with evidence of hydrocephalus (e.g., headache, dizziness, papilledema in this patient) and/or syringomyelia (e.g., tingling of the arms and hands in this patient). This patient's MRI confirms hydrocephalus and would also show the malformation.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Medulloblastoma** - Medulloblastoma is a common, aggressive pediatric intracranial neoplasm most commonly located in the cerebellar vermis. It typically initially manifests with the classic triad of morning headaches, vomiting, and fatigue due to increased intracranial pressure. Subsequent hydrocephalus is common, but it is not associated with either syringomyelia or myelomeningocele. In addition, this patient's MRI study shows dilated ventricles without evidence of a midline mass arising from the vermis.

**B - Intraventricular hemorrhage** - Intraventricular hemorrhage presents with headache, vomiting, and altered sensorium. Extensive bleeding from IVH can also cause hydrocephalus. However, IVH occurs acutely, not over the course of weeks. Moreover, imaging would show blood in the ventricles, which is not seen in the MRI.

**C - Choroid plexus carcinoma** - Choroid plexus carcinoma is a rare malignant neoplasm of the choroid plexus that typically occurs in children < 5 years and can cause hydrocephalus. However, it is not associated with syringomyelia or meningomyelocele. Additionally, at least in the planes shown, there are no visible tumors in the MRI.

**D - Dandy-Walker malformation** - Dandy-Walker malformation is often associated with hydrocephalus, typically antenatally or early in infancy. Although it is possible for syringomyelia or myelomeningocele to occur in patients with Dandy-Walker malformation, such cases are extremely rare. Much more likely associations would be orofacial and cardiac defects, as well as intellectual and motor delay (especially with crawling and walking due to lack of cerebellar neurons), none of which are present in this patient.

**F - Vestibular schwannoma** - Vestibular schwannoma typically presents with tinnitus, sensorineural hearing loss, and balance issues; hearing loss is the most common complaint. In very severe cases, they may grow large enough to cause headaches and brainstem compression, but they do not cause hydrocephalus or intracranial hypertension, nor would it occur over the course of two weeks. Although this patient has dizziness that could be explained by a schwannoma, it would not cause tingling in his arms or the observed optic disc swelling.

Image File: 1190-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5639fcbd770cd.jpg

**G - Tuberculous meningitis** - Tuberculous meningitis may present acutely or subacutely and has several cardinal features: fever, neck pain, and headache are early signs, progressing to confusion and coma in severe cases. Systemic manifestations, such as night sweats and weight loss, may also be observed. In some cases, collections of bacteria (tubercles) can become large enough to impede the typical flow of CSF in the cranium, leading to hydrocephalus. While this patient's MRI demonstrates hydrocephalus, the lack of other clinical findings – fever, systemic symptoms, or neck pain – and no clear risk factors (immigration from an endemic area or pulmonary manifestations of TB) for infection with M. tuberculosis make this very unlikely. Also, there is no evidence of tubercles on this patient's MRI.

**H - Brachial plexus injury** - Shoulder dislocation and shoulder surgery are both risk factors for brachial plexus injury, which could cause acute unilateral arm tingling following shoulder injury. This patient's symptoms are bilateral and occur one year after shoulder injury, ruling out brachial plexus injury. In addition, injury of the brachial plexus would not explain this patient's other abnormalities.

**I - Subarachnoid hemorrhage** - Subarachnoid hemorrhage classically presents with a sudden onset, extraordinary painful headache (i.e., thunderclap headache). Vomiting and altered sensorium are also commonly observed. This patient developed symptoms over the course of two weeks and is not experiencing an intense headache, making SAH unlikely.

Image File: 1190-I
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fdb6002a7ea4.jpg

