### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Pralidoxime** - When taken in excess, medications for Alzheimer disease such as donepezil can result in symptoms similar to that of organophosphate poisoning. In such cases, pralidoxime is given to restore activity of acetylcholinesterase, which then catalyzes the breakdown of excessive acetylcholine to reverse symptoms. Atropine does not act on nicotinic cholinergic receptors and thus cannot treat symptoms of neuromuscular dysfunction, for which pralidoxime is still necessary. Pralidoxime has poor blood-brain barrier penetration and can lead to a transient worsening of acetylcholinesterase inhibition following administration, which is why atropine is typically administered first to treat CNS symptoms and prevent further acetylcholinesterase inhibition.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Carbachol** - Carbachol directly binds to acetylcholine receptors of both muscarinic and nicotinic type and is used in the treatment of glaucoma. It would further exacerbate this patient's symptoms of acetylcholine excess and must be avoided in this patient.

**B - Physostigmine** - Physostigmine can be used as an antidote in atropine overdose or as a treatment for myasthenia gravis. However, in this patient with symptoms of acetylcholine excess, it would lead to exacerbation of this patient's symptoms by further increasing cholinergic stimulation.

**C - Pancuronium** - Pancuronium belongs to the class of nondepolarizing muscle relaxants that bind to acetylcholine receptors at the neuromuscular junction, which blocks nicotinic stimulation by acetylcholine. Even though administration of pancuronium would lead to a reversal of neuromuscular symptoms in this patient, muscular paralysis and possibly even respiratory impairment would result. The risks of pancuronium therefore outweigh its potential benefits, especially considering that safer alternatives are available.

**D - Benztropine** - Benztropine is a selective antagonist of muscarinic receptors that particularly decreases cholinergic overactivity in the CNS. It is typically used to treat tremor in Parkinson disease and extrapyramidal symptoms caused by antipsychotics. However, since this patient's muscarinic symptoms have mostly resolved following the administration of atropine, an additional muscarinic inhibitor would not be particularly useful.

