### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Seizure** - This patient's presentation is most consistent with a postictal seizure state, which can cause prolonged altered mental status, headache, Todd's paralysis, and aphasia for minutes-to-hours after the initial seizure. Given his chronic alcoholism, he is at increased risk for seizures if he were to suddenly stop consuming alcohol (i.e., alcohol withdrawal). New onset seizures (especially in adults) are concerning and would require further workup, including brain imaging.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Stroke** - A stroke results in permanent neurological deficits that could explain some of this patient's symptoms, such as expressive aphasia or left arm weakness. His hypertension and chronic alcoholism put him at increased risk for stroke. However, muscle pain is not a typical stroke symptom and his constellation of neurological symptoms does not localize to a single vascular territory (left arm weakness localizes to the right precentral gyrus, and expressive aphasia to the left hemisphere for the vast majority of right-handed patients). Furthermore, headaches are uncommon with stroke, since brain parenchyma lacks pain fibers, and stroke rarely causes altered mental status unless it is quite large; in which case, this patient's CT scan would likely have been abnormal.

**B - Transient ischemic attack** - A transient ischemic attack can cause a focal neurological deficit that typically lasts for less than one hour. This patient's hypertension and chronic alcoholism put him at increased risk for a TIA. However, his constellation of neurological symptoms does not localize to a single vascular territory (left arm weakness localizes to the right precentral gyrus, and expressive aphasia to the left hemisphere for the vast majority of right-handed patients). Also, headaches are uncommon with TIAs, since brain parenchyma lacks pain fibers. TIAs rarely result in altered mental status.

**C - Migraine** - Migraines can produce headaches with a range of neurological symptoms, including focal left arm weakness (hemiplegic migraine) or speech impairments. However, migraines rarely produce multiple focal neurologic deficits at once, as seen in this patient. Additionally, loss of consciousness and altered mental status do not occur with migraines, suggesting an alternative diagnosis.

**D - Syncope** - Syncope can result in a transient loss of consciousness from inadequate brain perfusion. However, syncopal episodes usually last seconds and do not cause prolonged confusion or neurological deficits (speech impairment, left arm weakness) as seen in this patient.

**E - Cardiac arrhythmia** - A cardiac arrhythmia can cause a syncopal episode if there is inadequate perfusion to the brain. Although this patient is at increased risk of arrhythmia given his left ventricular hypertrophy, he lacks symptoms suggesting a cardiac etiology (e.g., palpitations, chest pain). Also, he remains symptomatic despite being in normal cardiac rhythm (as seen on his ECG), making arrhythmia unlikely. Finally, arrhythmia would not cause left arm weakness or speech impairment.

