### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Noise exposure** - Repeated exposure to sounds above a threshold of 85 dB (e.g., motorcycle) or a single exposure to sounds above 120–155 dB (e.g., gunshots, jet takeoffs) can lead to noise-induced hearing loss, a common type of bilateral sensorineural hearing loss that is caused by irreversible damage to the stereocilia of the hair cells in the organ of Corti. Deployed military personnel, like this patient, have a high occupational risk of developing noise-induced hearing loss. Such hearing loss is slowly progressive and affects high frequencies (3–4 kHz) first, which results in difficulty hearing in crowded environments. Tinnitus is often an associated symptom. There is no definitive treatment available (besides hearing aids); therefore, prevention with appropriate hearing protection is essential.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Adverse effect of medication** - Ototoxic medications such as loop diuretics, aminoglycosides, vancomycin, or cisplatin can cause tinnitus and bilateral high-frequency sensorineural hearing, which are present here. However, this patient's only current medication is hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic, which is not known to be ototoxic.

**B - Meniere disease** - Meniere disease, which is caused by endolymphatic hydrops, can lead to tinnitus and bilateral sensorineural hearing loss, both of which are seen here. However, in initial stages, the hearing loss in this condition would usually have a fluctuating course, be accompanied by a sensation of ear fullness, and primarily affect low frequencies. In addition, Meniere disease typically manifests with acute episodes of severe peripheral vertigo (component of the Meniere triad). In contrast, this patient does not report vertigo or ear fullness and has progressive high-frequency hearing loss, which typically only occurs as a late manifestation of Meniere disease (after several years).

Image File: 1196-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57219404a8bd2.jpg

**C - Otosclerosis** - Otosclerosis, which leads to fixation of the stapes bone in the oval window, can affect both ears and cause progressive bilateral hearing loss and tinnitus, as seen here. However, the hearing loss in this condition is conductive rather than sensorineural; therefore, a negative rather than positive Rinne test would be expected. Moreover, patients with otosclerosis hear better in crowded environments (paracusis willisii) and have a characteristic notched hearing loss at 2 kHz (Carhart notch) on an audiogram unlike this patient who has difficulty hearing in crowded places and a notch at 3–4 kHz. Additionally, otoscopic examination in patients with active otosclerosis would usually reveal a red-blue hue seen through the tympanic membrane (Schwartze sign) as opposed to a clear, translucent tympanic membrane with a normal light reflex.

Image File: 1196-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cc08709b3284.jpg

**D - Presbycusis** - Presbycusis is the most common type of sensorineural hearing loss. This condition leads to progressive bilateral hearing loss with impairment of high-frequency hearing and tinnitus, both of which are seen here. However, presbycusis is usually first noticed in the sixth decade of life and the audiogram shows hearing impairment across a wide spectrum of high frequencies rather than a pronounced notch at a specific frequency.

Image File: 1196-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ee33dceff6f.jpg

**E - Barotrauma** - Ear barotrauma can be caused by flying or explosions (blast injuries), both of which this patient has likely been exposed to, and can lead to bilateral sensorineural hearing loss and tinnitus, as seen here. However, sensorineural hearing loss in this condition results from rupture of the oval window membrane and would be accompanied by nausea and vertigo. More commonly, barotrauma manifests with conductive hearing loss, which would show a different pattern on tuning fork tests and audiogram. In addition, symptom onset is sudden rather than progressive and affected patients typically present with a feeling of pressure and/or stabbing ear pain. Finally, otoscopic examination would reveal hematotympanum as opposed to a clear, translucent tympanic membrane with a normal light reflex.

