### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Lid hygiene and warm compresses** - Warm compresses, lid massage, and gentle lid cleansing are the cornerstones of therapy for mild blepharitis, as seen in this patient. As blepharitis is often a chronic condition with discrete episodes, ongoing lid hygiene is important in minimizing the frequency and intensity of flares.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Topical triamcinolone** - Triamcinolone, a topical glucocorticoid, is an agent of last resort for treating severe, treatment-refractory blepharitis. Topical steroids should be used carefully in this situation given the side effect profile, and patients should be evaluated by an ophthalmologist prior to initiation. This patient has a mild presentation and so a different management approach is more appropriate.

**B - Ocular culture and gram stain** - Culture and gram stain can be useful in diagnosing gonococcal conjunctivitis. While this patient has some risk factors (new sexual partner), gonococcal conjunctivitis is characterized by the acute conjunctival hyperemia, purulent discharge, and periorbital swelling. Her symptoms are not consistent with gonococcal infection and a culture would not be helpful.

**C - Oral doxycycline** - Oral doxycycline can be used in the treatment of severe or treatment-refractory blepharitis. It is not used as first-line treatment, especially for a mild presentation such as this one, because of the risk of adverse events, such as photosensitivity, gastrointestinal distress, and interference with oral contraceptives.

**D - Topical cyclosporine** - Cyclosporine can be helpful in the treatment of severe or treatment-refractory blepharitis, especially in cases of posterior blepharitis, but is very expensive. It decreases inflammation in the tear ducts and increases tear production. This patient has a mild presentation and so a different management approach is more appropriate.

**E - Topical erythromycin** - Topical erythromycin can be helpful in the treatment of severe or treatment-refractory blepharitis, or in the peri-operative period for patients undergoing eye surgery. It is a broad-spectrum antibiotic that reduces the bacterial load around the eyelids, lashes, and conjunctiva. However, it is not an appropriate first-line therapy for mild blepharitis, as seen in this patient.

**F - Topical mupirocin** - Mupirocin, a topical antibiotic, can be used to treat superficial community-acquired methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) infections. While Staphylococcus is commonly implicated in blepharitis, this patient has a mild presentation and so a different management approach is more appropriate.

