### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Pleocytosis on cerebrospinal fluid analysis** - Pleocytosis and/or a raised IgG index on cerebrospinal fluid analysis are typical findings in transverse myelitis (TM) and indicate its inflammatory etiology. MRI of the spinal cord may show T2 focal hyperintensity with or without gadolinium enhancement. Further diagnostic workup aims to determine the cause of TM, which can be idiopathic (usually as a postinfectious complication), an autoimmune neurological condition (e.g., multiple sclerosis, neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders), a systemic inflammatory autoimmune disorder (e.g., sarcoidosis, systemic lupus erythematosus), or paraneoplastic syndromes. Management varies depending on etiology. Idiopathic TM is treated with high-dose IV glucocorticoids, and plasmapheresis is added if the response to glucocorticoids is insufficient. In severe cases, IV cyclophosphamide may be indicated. Immunomodulatory therapy (e.g., with mycophenolate or rituximab) is an additional treatment option for recurrent idiopathic TM. In secondary TM, high-dose IV glucocorticoids are indicated along with treatment of the underlying condition.

Image File: 1202-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6127865b211d0.jpg

Question Difficulty: 0

** Other Answers: **

**A - Positive titers on a rapid plasma reagin test** - Positive titers on a rapid plasma reagin test indicate syphilis, which may occur in a patient with risky sexual behavior. Bladder dysfunction can occur due to tabes dorsalis, a neurological manifestation of tertiary syphilis. However, tabes dorsalis usually progresses slowly and exclusively affects the dorsal columns, so only sensation to vibration and light touch is lost. Moreover, hyporeflexia or areflexia (rather than hyperreflexia) is expected in tabes dorsalis because the afferent reflex pathways are compromised.

Image File: 1202-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ea2f383def6e.jpg

**B - Decreased peripheral nerve conduction velocity on an electrophysiological examination** - Decreased peripheral nerve conduction velocity is common in Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), which is associated with recent infection and acute progression of symptoms. However, involvement of lower limbs is most likely to be more pronounced than upper limb involvement, a clear sensory level is not expected, and autonomic impairment typically manifests as cardiovascular instability rather than bowel/bladder dysfunction. In addition, GBS typically manifests with hyporeflexia or areflexia, neither of which are seen here. Moreover, GBS results in a lower motor neuron lesion, so affected individuals do not present with a positive Babinski sign. The peripheral nerves are not affected in transverse myelitis.

**C - Increased methylmalonic acid concentration on serum analysis** - Increased methylmalonic acid concentration is a finding in patients with vitamin B12 deficiency, which can cause subacute combined degeneration and/or peripheral neuropathy and thereby manifest with weakness, urinary incontinence, and sensory loss. However, the onset of symptoms due to vitamin B12 deficiency typically occurs over months to years and this patient has no known risk factors for vitamin B12 deficiency (e.g., chronic alcohol use, malnutrition, malabsorption, atrophic gastritis, previous gastrectomy).

Image File: 1202-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5de77590805f2.jpg

**E - Anterior nerve root enhancement on spinal MRI** - Anterior nerve root enhancement on spinal MRI is common in Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), which is associated with recent infection and acute progression of symptoms. However, involvement of lower limbs is most likely to be more pronounced than upper limb involvement, a clear sensory level is not expected, and autonomic impairment typically manifests as cardiovascular instability rather than bowel/bladder dysfunction. In addition, GBS typically manifests with hyporeflexia or areflexia, neither of which are seen here. Moreover, GBS results in a lower motor neuron lesion, so affected individuals do not present with a positive Babinski sign. The nerve roots are not affected in transverse myelitis.

