### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Lumbar tap test** - A lumbar tap is the best confirmatory test for patients with suspected normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH), which is characterized by frequent falls, magnetic gait, and ventriculomegaly on MRI, all of which are seen here. Although this patient does not have the classic triad of symptoms, gait ataxia is the most relevant finding of NPH and should, therefore, raise clinical suspicion for this condition and warrant further evaluation. The lumbar tap test is considered positive and confirms the diagnosis of NPH if the patient's symptoms improve after removing a small amount of CSF (30–50 mL). CSF analysis can also be performed during this procedure to help rule differential diagnoses.

Image File: 1203-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b3a236c4d319.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ventricular shunting** - Ventriculoperitoneal shunting is the definitive therapy for patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH), which is the most likely diagnosis in this patient. However, NPH should be confirmed before treatment is started.

**C - Levodopa challenge test** - A levodopa challenge test is used to support the diagnosis of Parkinson disease (PD), which is characterized by postural instability with frequent falls and gait abnormalities with small steps, similar to what is seen here. However, PD is characterized by a narrow-based shuffling gait, with episodes of freezing and/or propulsion; this patient's broad-based and unsteady gait is inconsistent with a parkinsonian gait. In addition, she does not have any of the hallmark symptoms of PD, such as bradykinesia, resting tremor, and rigidity, and her MRI shows ventriculomegaly, which is not expected in PD.

**D - Acetazolamide therapy** - Acetazolamide is the first-line treatment for idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH), which does not cause gait abnormalities but manifests with headaches and visual disturbances. In addition, brain imaging would be normal in IIH. Furthermore, this patient does not have any risk factors for IIH (e.g., obesity, childbearing age, use of retinoids or tetracyclines). This patient most likely has normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH). There is some evidence of an association between acetazolamide and clinical improvement in NPH but the drug is not yet recommended for the treatment of this condition.

**E - Schilling test** - A Schilling test can be used to determine the cause of vitamin B12 deficiency, which can result in subacute combined degeneration (SCD) of the spinal cord and cause gait abnormalities (sensory ataxia). However, vitamin B12 deficiency is also associated with peripheral neuropathy, paresthesias, and spastic paresis, none of which are seen in this patient. In addition, vitamin B12 deficiency does not cause abnormalities on brain imaging, and the Schilling test is no longer routinely used in clinical practice.

