### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Myotonic dystrophy** - Abduction of the thumb followed by slow relaxation upon percussion indicates myotonia. Myotonia in a 9-year-old boy with muscle aches and weakness in the distal muscles (hand and/or foot), face, as well as extraocular muscles is highly suggestive of type 1 myotonic dystrophy. Reduced fetal temporalis and pterygoid muscle growth results in a high-arched palate. About 50% of patients with myotonic dystrophy have some degree of cognitive impairment.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Becker muscular dystrophy** - Becker's muscular dystrophy presents with muscle weakness in boys between the ages of 5–10. However, this weakness typically involves the proximal muscles of the lower limb (thigh and hip muscles). Extraocular muscles and distal muscles of the upper limb are almost always spared.

**B - Hyperkalemic periodic paralysis** - Patients with hyperkalemic periodic paralysis may present with myotonia. However, the myotonia in patients with hyperkalemic periodic paralysis characteristically increases with fasting, after exercise, or in cold weather. Moreover, patients typically present with dramatic episodes of weakness that predominantly affect proximal muscles rather than the insidiously developing distal muscle weakness seen in this patient.

**C - Spinal muscular atrophy** - Certain mild forms of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA; e.g., Kugelberg-Welander disease) may present during late childhood with limb weakness and muscle pain (due to cramps). However, unlike in this patient, proximal muscles of the lower limb are usually more severely affected. Also, the upper cranial nerve nuclei are typically spared in patients with SMA and ptosis would therefore not be present. Although certain motor milestones may be delayed, cognitive development is typically normal in children with spinal muscular atrophy.

**D - McArdle disease** - McArdle disease may result in muscle weakness, myalgia, and exercise intolerance. However, McArdle's disease usually presents during late adolescence or early adulthood and results in generalized muscle weakness or weakness that affects proximal muscles more than distal ones. One characteristic feature of McArdle disease is the second wind phenomenon, the relief of muscle pain and weakness after a brief episode of rest, which is absent in this patient.

**F - Juvenile dermatomyositis** - Juvenile-onset dermatomyositis would present with lower limb weakness in children between the ages of 5 and 10 years. However, cutaneous manifestations such as a heliotrope rash over the eyelids and cheeks, or a dry scaly eruption over the knuckles (Gottron's sign) would also be present.

**G - Duchenne muscular dystrophy** - Patients with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy (DMD) would present with muscle weakness and symptoms of intellectual impairment in boys. However, weakness typically appears before the age of 5 years and predominantly affects the hip and thigh muscles (positive Gower's sign and/or waddling gait). Pseudohypertrophy of the calves is another important sign that is present in 60% of children with DMD. Extraocular muscles and distal muscles of the upper limb are almost always spared, even in the late stages of the disease (unlike this child who has ptosis and hand weakness).

