### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Bacterial infection from ethmoidal sinus** - Orbital cellulitis is most commonly caused by bacterial spread from ethmoidal or maxillary sinusitis as these sinuses are most proximal to the orbits. This patient's history of recent sinusitis, therefore, makes spread from the ethmoidal sinus the most likely cause of her symptoms. Sinusitis can cause orbital or preseptal (anterior to the orbital septum) cellulitis. Orbital cellulitis is distinguished from preseptal cellulitis by pain with ocular movements and vision changes.

Image File: 1205-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5555cdc76a12d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cavernous sinus thrombosis** - Cavernous sinus thrombosis leads to proptosis, swelling of the conjunctiva, and symptoms related to damage of the structures passing through the sinus. These structures include all cranial nerves responsible for eye movement (oculomotor, CN III; trochlear, CN IV; abducens, CN VI) and the ophthalmic and maxillary branches of the trigeminal nerve, CN V, and their compromise leads to ophthalmoplegia and loss of sensation to the upper two thirds of the face. Since this patient does not have any cranial nerve symptoms, cavernous sinus thrombosis is unlikely.

**B - Dental abscess** - Patients with a dental abscess present with toothache, pain, and swelling in the area of the abscess. More systemic symptoms, such as fever, nausea, vomiting, and difficulty swallowing or speaking, can also occur. This patient recently underwent a dental procedure and dental abscesses can spread to the orbit and cause orbital cellulitis. However, this patient has no symptoms indicating a tooth infection or dental abscess.

**C - Suppurative spread of dacrocystitis** - Stasis of lacrimal fluid due to stenosis of the nasolacrimal duct leads to bacterial colonization and dacryocystitis. Symptoms of severe inflammation, e.g., swelling, pain, and redness, are typical. Systemic symptoms such as fever, malaise, and localized lymph node swelling may also occur. Bacterial pathogens from the lacrimal sac can then spread to adjacent areas, causing cellulitis. However, this patient has no history of symptoms consistent with dacryocystitis.

**D - Viral infection from sphenoid sinus** - This patient may have initially had viral sinusitis. However, the persistence of this patient's symptoms for two weeks makes it more likely that she now has bacterial sinusitis. In addition, orbital cellulitis is typically due to bacterial rather than viral pathogens. Lastly, the sphenoid sinuses are located in the sphenoid bones near the optic nerve and pituitary gland. Therefore, spread to the orbit from a sphenoid sinus would be less likely than spread from a sinus that is closer to the orbits.

**E - Orbital mucormycosis** - Orbital mucormycosis may occur due to fungal spread in patients with ethmoid or maxillary fungal sinusitis. Patients with fungal sinusitis typically have either poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, HIV, or a history of long-term steroid therapy, and are usually immunocompromised. These patients would present with palatal or nasal mucosal ulceration in addition to the other signs and symptoms of sinusitis. Since this patient is young, healthy, and is not immunocompromised, a fungal source of infection is unlikely.

