### ** Correct Answer: **

**J - Herpes simplex virus** - Herpes simplex virus is the most common cause of viral encephalitis. This patient's clinical presentation is typical of acute encephalitis (headache, fever, and altered mental status). Lumbar puncture usually demonstrates elevated WBC (100–500 WBC/mm3), increased RBC (> 10 RBC/mm3) due to the microhemorrhagic infection of the temporal lobe, elevated protein (often > 100 mg/dL), and normal to mildly low glucose. MRI of the brain classically shows temporal lobe involvement, possibly including hemorrhagic changes. Based on the patient history, epidemiological considerations, CSF findings, and MRI results, herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) is the most likely diagnosis.

Patients should receive empiric IV acyclovir therapy as soon as the diagnosis is suspected because neurologic complications of the disease are devastating. Even with prompt treatment, ⅔ of patients are left with significant neurologic deficits.

Image File: 1207-J
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60c0ba162b518.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cytomegalovirus** - Cytomegalovirus virtually never causes encephalitis, except in cases of marked immunosuppression. This patient has no history of HIV infection or pharmacological immunosuppression (chronic steroids or history of organ transplant).

**B - West Nile virus** - A West Nile virus infection is usually asymptomatic, but can cause a nonspecific flu-like syndrome involving mild fever, fatigue, and myalgia. In a very limited number of patients, CNS invasion (encephalitis) is possible, which manifests primarily with motor abnormalities (e.g., extrapyramidal symptoms, myoclonus, or tremor); cognition can also be affected. In such cases, CSF analysis may be similar to this patient's. While this patient has fever and signs of encephalitis, she lacks extrapyramidal symptoms. Moreover, her MRI is strongly suggestive of a different diagnosis.

**C - La Crosse virus** - Infection with La Crosse virus is usually asymptomatic but may cause California encephalitis, which is characterized by seizures, coma, focal neurologic findings (such as a positive Babinski sign), and paralysis. MRI findings may demonstrate temporal lobe abnormalities, as seen in this patient's imaging. Although the clinical and radiographic features of La Crosse virus infection are consistent with this patient's presentation, another diagnosis is statistically much more likely.

**D - Tick-borne encephalitis virus** - Tick-borne encephalitis virus causes encephalitis and is endemic to eastern Europe and Asia. The presentation is highly variable; CNS involvement most commonly takes the form of meningism, altered mental status, and transient paralysis. CSF analysis may be similar to this patient's. While this patient has evidence of acute viral CNS infection, this disease is uncommon and highly unlikely given the fact that she has not traveled to endemic areas.

**E - Rabies virus** - Infection with the rabies virus causes rabies. The infection first manifests with a nonspecific prodrome of fatigue, weakness, malaise, and low-grade fever. In some instances, the patient may recall being bitten by an animal (e.g., a bat, raccoon, or coyote) and report paresthesias or anesthesia at the site of the bite (a finding pathognomonic for rabies). CNS invasion can cause acute agitation, hyperactivity, and hydrophobia, or relative somnolence and paralysis. CNS invasion is untreatable, and coma and death are almost always inevitable at that point. Rabies is extremely rare in the United States. Moreover, although this patient spent time in caves (spelunking), she has no history of being bitten by an animal, making rabies extremely unlikely.

**F - Rickettsia rickettsii** - Rickettsia rickettsii causes Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF), which classically presents with a maculopapular rash that first affects the palms and soles, then spreads to the trunk. Other common findings include fever, headache, myalgia, and, in rare cases, encephalitis. Infected patients often have a history of tick bites and travel to an endemic region in spring or summer. Despite risk factors for infection with R. rickettsii (camping), the classic rash of RMSF is not visible on examination and the MRI findings point to a different diagnosis.

Image File: 1207-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58c6bf31e30fb.jpg

**G - Neisseria meningitidis** - Neisseria meningitidis causes rapidly progressive meningitis, especially in children and young adults. Meningococcal meningitis classically presents with intense headache, high fever, neck stiffness, vomiting, photophobia, and sometimes encephalitis. Disease progression can cause large petechial hemorrhages (especially on the neck), adrenal hemorrhage (Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome), and coma. While there are some similarities in this patient's presentation, her focal neurologic deficits, MRI findings, and lack of meningism make meningococcal infection unlikely. Moreover, this patient is likely immunized against meningococcus.

Image File: 1207-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93c97e11.jpg

**H - Enterovirus** - Enteroviruses are a common cause of viral meningitis, though they are an uncommon cause of encephalitis. In cases of enterovirus infection of the central nervous system, leptomeningeal enhancement on MRI is the most typical finding; asymmetrical, bitemporal hyperintensities are not characteristic. In fact, this MRI finding is very strongly associated with a different etiology.

**I - Naegleria fowleri** - Naegleria fowleri is a rare and extremely lethal pathogen capable of causing meningoencephalitis. Individuals exposed to this organism remain asymptomatic for a period of about one week, after which time they rapidly develop headache, fever, meningism, seizures, confusion, and hallucinations. This patient's symptoms could be caused by Naegleria infection. However, this infection does not cause this patient's MRI findings and is exceptionally rare (33 cases over 10 years in the US).

