### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Lens** - Gradual painless loss of vision with leukocoria in an adult suggests cataract formation. Cataracts are the most common cause of impaired vision in patients over 40 years of age. Risk factors for cataract formation include advanced age, diabetes mellitus, smoking, heavy alcohol consumption, chronic corticosteroid therapy, ocular trauma, and UV exposure. Conditions associated with congenital and juvenile cataracts include galactosemia, chromosomal trisomies, certain TORCH infections (e.g., rubella, toxoplasmosis), Marfan syndrome, Alport syndrome, myotonic dystrophy, and neurofibromatosis type II.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Aqueous humor** - Opacification of the aqueous humor typically occurs in acute uveitis, a condition in which pus accumulates in the anterior chamber (hypopyon). However, opacification would not be restricted to the pupillary area, as seen here. Instead, it would be present in the inferior region of the anterior chamber and obscure the underlying iris. Moreover, the chronic nature of the patient's symptoms and the absence of pain and conjunctival injection make a different kind of ocular damage more likely.

Image File: 1208-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59fb261c51d13.jpg

**B - Cornea** - Corneal edemas, which can be caused by keratitis, anterior uveitis, acute congestive glaucoma, and certain metabolic disorders (e.g., mucopolysaccharidoses), would appear as opacifications on slit-lamp examination and cause impaired visual acuity. However, such opacifications would not be restricted to the pupillary area, as is the case here. Instead, opacification would be present throughout the cornea and obscure the underlying iris.

Image File: 1208-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b3247385f44e.jpg

**C - Vitreous body** - Vitreous body pathologies, such as persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous (PHPV) and chronic ocular toxocariasis, can result in impaired visual acuity and leukocoria. However, PHPV typically occurs during childhood, and toxocariasis is accompanied by ocular pain. Moreover, both conditions are typically unilateral, whereas both eyes are affected in this patient.

**E - Retina** - Retinal pathologies such as retinoblastoma, retrolental fibroplasia, and Coats disease can cause leukocoria with impaired visual acuity. However, these conditions typically occur in the pediatric population, not in adults.

Image File: 1208-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a3a3378510a1.jpg

