### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Optic neuritis** - Optic neuritis is most commonly caused by multiple sclerosis (∼ 35% of cases) and is often the earliest manifestation of the condition. MS is more common in women and the onset of symptoms usually occurs in patients 20–40 years of age. The primary symptoms of optic neuritis are acute to subacute color blindness, a decrease in visual acuity, and pain that is aggravated by ocular movements. Most patients with optic neuritis would have a normal fundus on ophthalmoscopy. It is not uncommon for a cranial CT to show no abnormalities, especially in early MS.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Open-angle glaucoma** - Open-angle glaucoma would typically present in patients > 40 years old with painless, slowly progressive scotomas and/or a decrease in visual acuity. A different diagnosis should be considered in this 33-year-old woman with two episodes of painful loss of vision that had complete remission a year in between.

**B - Retinal detachment** - Retinal detachment typically results in sudden, painless, visual field defects or complete loss of vision in the affected eye and is usually preceded by prodromal symptoms such as floaters and/or photopsia. The presence of only defective color vision and moderately decreased visual acuity, as well as the presence of pain, make the diagnosis of retinal detachment extremely unlikely.

**C - Retinitis pigmentosa** - Retinitis pigmentosa results in slowly progressive loss of vision in both eyes and the initial clinical manifestations are night-blindness and decreased peripheral vision. This patient does not complain of difficulty reading in a poorly lit environment, and developed visual impairment in one eye over the course of 2 weeks.

**D - Optic glioma** - Optic gliomas usually present in children 5–10 years of age with gradual, painless loss of vision and slowly progressive proptosis. In this 33-year-old woman, however, the two episodes of loss of vision occurred a year apart in different eyes with complete remission between the episodes.

**E - Narrow-angle glaucoma** - Narrow-angle glaucoma presents with eye pain and a decrease in visual acuity and is often triggered by a dark environment, but it has an acute onset. Other clinical features would also be expected, such as photophobia, nausea, vomiting, corneal cloudiness, congestion of the ciliary and conjunctival vessels, and a fixed, semi-dilated pupil. Slit lamp examination would show a shallow anterior chamber.

Image File: 1209-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e4a5b0c536b7.jpg

**F - Macular degeneration** - Common causes of macular degeneration include age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and myopic macular degeneration (MMD). AMD usually occurs in people > 60 years old and presents with a slowly progressive, painless, bilateral decrease in visual acuity. Myopic macular degeneration may occur in younger patients and would also present with an insidious, painless loss of vision but is seen in patients with pathological myopia. Patients with pathological myopia would have a deep anterior chamber on slit lamp examination, and an uncorrected visual acuity that is far worse than 20/200 in both eyes.

