### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Tuberous sclerosis** - Tuberous sclerosis (TSC) is a neurocutaneous disorder characterized by the presence of benign hamartomas, which cause a wide variety of symptoms depending on the organs involved. Hamartomas may present in the skin as shagreen patches, angiofibromas, and ash-leaf spots; in the CNS, with secondary seizures, hydrocephalus, and/or intellectual disability; in the kidney, as angiomyolipomas (which may cause pain and impairment of renal function), benign cysts, or renal cell carcinoma. This patient's dermatological findings alone are not sufficient to diagnose TSC, but his history and exam, with macrohematuria, abdominal pain and fullness, left-sided abdominal mass, and costovertebral angle tenderness, suggest the presence of one or more angiomyolipomas. Furthermore, he has a history of seizures, cognitive deficits, and behavioral problems that may be associated with TSC.

Image File: 1211-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9470e829.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Von Hippel‑Lindau disease** - Von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL) typically manifests in the development of hemangioblastomas (most often in the cerebellum, spinal cord, and/or retina), renal cell carcinoma, pheochromocytomas, and pancreatic cysts and tumors. This patient is presenting with a left-sided abdominal mass and a history suggestive of hematuria, which could be consistent with renal cell carcinoma. However, the lack of other characteristic tumors or malformations, along with the dermatological findings, which are not characteristic of VHL, make this diagnosis unlikely.

Image File: 1211-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589461703c4a1.jpg

**B - Neurofibromatosis type 1** - Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a neurocutaneous disorder characterized by café-au-lait spots, Lisch nodules, neurofibromas, and optic pathway gliomas. It may be accompanied by seizures, cognitive deficits, and soft tissue sarcomas such as gastrointestinal stromal tumors. This patient's seizures, weight loss, declining performance and poor attention in school, and abdominal fullness may be consistent with NF1, however, hypopigmented macules and a plaque of dimpled skin are not features of NF1. Also his flank pain and hematuria point to a renal rather than gastrointestinal origin of his abdominal pain and fullness.

Image File: 1211-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94eef722.jpg

**C - Sturge-Weber syndrome** - Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS) is characterized by a “port wine stain,” which represents facial capillary malformations, usually over the forehead and upper eyelid. This cutaneous finding is accompanied by neurologic disturbances such as seizures, intellectual disability, and focal neurological deficits (paresis, visual field defects). While this patient's history of seizures, behavioral problems, and declining performance at school could represent neurological manifestations of SWS, he lacks the characteristic port wine stain and ocular involvement, and his dermatological and renal involvement is not consistent with SWS.

Image File: 1211-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5555d0acc888d.jpg

**E - Neurofibromatosis type 2** - Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) most frequently manifests with (bilateral) acoustic/vestibular schwannomas, along with schwannomas of other cranial nerves, intracranial meningiomas, and spinal and peripheral nervous tumors. The condition is typically diagnosed when tumors appear in late adolescence or early adulthood. While cutaneous manifestations may be present in NF2, hypopigmented lesion, as seen in this patient, is not common. Moreover, this patient's history and physical examination findings imply the presence of renal, behavioral, and cognitive abnormalities, which are not consistent with a diagnosis of NF2.

