### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Ampicillin, gentamicin, and cefotaxime** - In infants younger than 1 month, empirical treatment for bacterial meningitis consists of ampicillin plus an aminoglycoside (e.g., gentamicin) and/or a third-generation cephalosporin (e.g., cefotaxime). This regimen covers most pathogens responsible for neonatal meningitis.

Image File: 1216-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60eff5f4295e8.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ampicillin and ceftriaxone** - Ceftriaxone is contraindicated in neonates with hyperbilirubinemia because it displaces bilirubin from the albumin binding site and is therefore associated with an increased risk of kernicterus.

**B - Vancomycin and ceftriaxone** - A combination of vancomycin and ceftriaxone is used in the empirical treatment of community-acquired bacterial meningitis in patients between the ages of 1 month and 50 years. However, ceftriaxone is contraindicated in neonates with hyperbilirubinemia because it displaces bilirubin from the albumin binding site and is therefore associated with an increased risk of kernicterus.

**C - Gentamicin and cefotaxime** - Cefotaxime covers most gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria and is indicated for the empirical treatment of neonatal meningitis. However, gentamicin is effective only against gram-negative bacteria and would not cover the gram-positive pathogens that are not covered by cefotaxime (e.g., Listeria).

**E - Vancomycin, ampicillin, and cefotaxime** - A combination of vancomycin, ampicillin, and cefotaxime is used in the empirical treatment of community-acquired bacterial meningitis in patients > 50 years of age. A different antibiotic regimen is used for the empirical treatment of meningitis in neonates.

**F - Vancomycin, ampicillin, and doxycycline** - Ampicillin provides coverage for group B Streptococcus, Listeria monocytogenes, and enterococci, while vancomycin provides coverage for drug-resistant gram-positive bacteria. However, doxycycline does not play a role in the empirical treatment of meningitis, with the exception of suspected tick bite-associated meningitis.

