### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Ultrasound of the head** - This patient likely has hydrocephalus and requires imaging to determine the extent of the condition. Ultrasound is the preferred imaging modality in newborns and young infants in whom the anterior fontanelle is still open, because it allows direct visualization of the brain. Moreover, ultrasound avoids radiation and does not require sedation of the patient.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer furosemide** - Diuretics such as furosemide decrease CSF production and are sometimes used as temporary therapy in patients too unstable to undergo surgery. However, imaging is first required to confirm the diagnosis and determine the underlying cause.

**B - MRI of the head** - Although imaging is required to confirm the diagnosis, MRI is not indicated in newborns and young infants because the anterior fontanelle is still open. If this patient were older , MRI would be an excellent first step to identify the cause of hydrocephalus and detect associated malformations or tumors.

Image File: 1218-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e75ecbec50da.jpg

**C - Serial lumbar punctures** - Although serial lumbar punctures were used in the past as a temporizing measure in preterm infants with posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus as a complication of intraventricular hemorrhage, the procedure is no longer recommended. Imaging is first required to confirm the diagnosis and determine the underlying cause.

**D - CT scan of the head** - Although imaging is necessary to confirm the diagnosis, CT would expose this young patient to unnecessary radiation. CT scan may be indicated in older children in an acute setting to quickly identify the cause of an increased ICP

Image File: 1218-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d936b8250.jpg

**E - Place a CSF shunt** - CSF shunts are a definitive treatment for hydrocephalus. However, before proceeding with a surgical intervention, neuroimaging is required to confirm the diagnosis and determine the underlying cause.

Image File: 1218-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_508c11f414de6.jpg

