### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Migraine headache** - Migraine headaches are recurrent throbbing headaches that are frequently unilateral and classically accompanied by nausea, vomiting, and sensitivity to light and sound. Migraine headaches may also localize in an alternating pattern, as seen in this patient. Risk factors include stress, poor sleep hygiene, and oral contraceptive use.

Image File: 1219-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58aeb404ecedf.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Tension headache** - Tension headaches are the most common type of headache and typically manifest as episodic bilateral, band-like, dull headaches. While they can be precipitated by stress and lack of sleep, autonomic symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, and photophobia would not be expected.

**C - Trigeminal neuralgia** - Trigeminal neuralgia is a neurologic condition characterized by transient, debilitating facial pain in the distribution of the trigeminal nerve. These episodes of pain typically last seconds at a time and occur up to one hundred times per day. This patient's unilateral pain, nausea, and photophobia are more consistent with another condition.

**D - Cluster headache** - Cluster headaches are an uncommon type of headache that typically manifest as severe, unilateral periorbital pain. However, they are more common in males and are associated with lacrimation, rhinorrhea, and partial Horner syndrome, none of which is seen in this patient.

**E - Pseudotumor cerebri** - Pseudotumor cerebri (idiopathic intracranial hypertension) is a neurologic condition caused by increased intracranial pressure that primarily affects obese women. Unlike in this patient, the headaches associated with pseudotumor cerebri are typically diffuse, positional, and associated with tinnitus and diplopia. Expected physical exam findings would include papilledema and a blind spot on visual field testing, neither of which is present in this patient. This patient's history is more consistent with a different condition.

