### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Focal to bilateral tonic-clonic seizure** - A focal to bilateral tonic-clonic seizure (formerly called partial seizure with secondary generalization) is a seizure that begins in a limited area of one hemisphere of the brain and progresses to involve both hemispheres. Often, these seizures begin with an aura that may include feelings of nausea or seeing shiny lights. This patient's initial facial twitching and muscle contractions were characteristic of a focal seizure (repetitive movements on one side). The bilateral tonic-clonic portion of the seizure occurred when he lost consciousness and began jerking all extremities. After tonic-clonic seizures, consciousness usually returns slowly and a postictal phase (in this case, lethargy and confusion) begins.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Focal seizure with dyscognitive features** - Patients who have a focal seizure with dyscognitive features (previously termed complex partial seizure) lose consciousness during the course of the seizure. Although this patient's facial twitching and loss of conscious are suggestive of this diagnosis, his bilateral jerking movements in upper and lower extremities are not characteristic of focal seizures. In addition, this patient remained conscious during the beginning of his seizure and only lost consciousness after.

**C - Convulsive syncope** - Convulsive syncope can have a very similar presentation to that of seizures, including a prodrome and convulsions (due to decreased cerebral perfusion). As a result, the diagnosis must sometimes be made based upon situational factors such as prolonged standing, dehydration, fear, and pain, which are all suggestive of convulsive syncope. In addition, postictal confusion in this patient would make convulsive syncope an unlikely diagnosis.

**D - Sydenham chorea** - Sydenham chorea typically manifests as a symptom of rheumatic fever 1–8 months after group A streptococcal infection and is a common form of acquired chorea in childhood. The rapid, irregular, and non-stereotyped movements of Sydenham chorea are usually generalized (involving the head, neck, and limbs) and continuous while the patient is awake, worsening over hours to days. Motor symptoms may be associated with impaired motor control, muscle weakness, and/or hypotonia. While the patient's history of a sore throat 1 week ago should raise suspicion of a group A streptococcal infection, the timing of the appearance of the motor disturbance and the lack of other criteria suggestive of rheumatic fever (Jones criteria) make the diagnosis of Sydenham's chorea unlikely.

**E - Generalized myoclonic seizure** - Generalized myoclonic seizures are also associated with jerking movements of the entire body, which is seen in this case. Usually, the seizures begin suddenly (without prodromes) and there is only brief impairment of consciousness. Though this patient's motor symptoms are similar to those of myoclonic seizures, the presence of a prodrome, his initial symptoms, and postictal confusion make this diagnosis unlikely.

**F - Generalized tonic-clonic seizure** - Generalized tonic-clonic seizures usually begin with a vague prodrome (e.g., sleep disturbances, lightheadedness, mood changes, anxiety/irritability, impaired concentration) hours before the seizure, followed by a loss of consciousness with bilateral muscle contractions (tonic) and muscle twitching (clonic). Though this patient's upper and lower extremity twitching is suggestive of a generalized tonic-clonic seizure, the initial aura (visual changes) and unilateral facial twitching without loss of consciousness would not be seen in this type of seizure.

