### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Supportive care only** - This patient has CJD, which is caused by misfolded proteins (prions). Most cases of CJD are sporadic, but 10–15% are familial, and < 1% are acquired (e.g., via transmission during medical procedures or through ingestion of contaminated beef or human brain). This patient, who has a family history of a first-degree relative diagnosed with dementia at the age of 62 years and a rapidly fatal course, likely has the familial variant. Most patients with CJD die within 12 months after the onset of disease manifestations. No curative treatment is available; supportive care is the most appropriate intervention and should include communication with family, hospice evaluation, symptomatic treatment (e.g., benzodiazepines to treat myoclonus), and palliative care.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Chelation therapy** - Chelation therapy is used in the treatment of Wilson disease, which is characterized by copper accumulation in the liver, cornea, and central nervous system (particularly within the basal ganglia, brain stem, and cerebellum). Affected individuals can develop dementia, behavioral changes (e.g., depression), and myoclonus, as seen here. However, this patient has no other findings suggestive of Wilson disease (e.g., dysarthria, Parkinsonism, drooling, tremor) and is older than the typical age of onset for Wilson disease (5–35 years of age). Chelation therapy is not useful in the treatment of CJD.

**B - Monoamine-depleting therapy** - Monoamine-depleting therapy is indicated for the treatment of hyperkinetic movements in patients with Huntington disease (HD), an autosomal dominant hereditary disease that typically manifests around 40 years of age. Affected individuals can develop hyperreflexia and, rarely, myoclonus. However, choreiform movements (rapid, irregular motions) are more common than the involuntary twitching motions (myoclonus) seen in this patient. Although individuals with HD can develop dementia and depression, these features are more common in advanced stages. In addition, MRI of the brain in HD shows atrophy of the striatum, not signal hyperintensity in the basal ganglia and temporal and frontal cortices. Monoamine-depleting therapy is not useful in the treatment of CJD.

**C - Ventriculoperitoneal shunting** - Ventriculoperitoneal shunting is used to treat normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH). This patient has signs of dementia, hyperreflexia, and a positive Babinski sign, all of which can be seen in NPH. However, he lacks other characteristic features of this condition (i.e., urinary incontinence, abnormal gait). Moreover, brain MRI in patients with NPH shows ventriculomegaly, not signal hyperintensity in the basal ganglia and temporal and frontal cortices. Ventriculoperitoneal shunting is not useful in the treatment of CJD.

**E - Anticholinesterase therapy** - Anticholinesterase therapy (e.g., donepezil, galantamine, rivastigmine) is used in the treatment of Alzheimer disease (AD), which manifests with dementia. Affected individuals can develop noncognitive symptoms, such as mood disorders and myoclonus, as seen here. However, in patients with AD, EEG shows slower basic rhythms, not triphasic periodic sharp wave complexes. In addition, MRI of the brain shows cerebral atrophy, not signal hyperintensity in the basal ganglia and temporal and frontal cortices. Anticholinesterase therapy is not useful in the treatment of CJD.

