### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Regular exercise** - Regular exercise can reduce pain and improve functional capacity in patients with FM; cardiovascular training (e.g., swimming, walking, cycling) is recommended. Patients with FM should be advised to increase daily physical exercise gradually and that it is normal to initially experience a temporary worsening of myalgias. In addition, initial management of FM should include patient education (including reassurance about the disease and its prognosis and the importance of nonpharmacological measures such as sleep hygiene), treatment of comorbidities (e.g., mood and sleep disorders), and pharmacotherapy with low-dose tricyclic antidepressants (e.g., amitriptyline).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Electromyography** - Electromyography (EMG) is used in the diagnosis of neurogenic and myopathic disorders, such as inflammatory myopathies, which manifest with muscle tenderness, similar to what is seen here. However, inflammatory markers (e.g., ESR) and muscle enzymes (e.g., creatinine kinase) are typically elevated in inflammatory myopathies. This patient most likely has FM, in which EMG is not needed to establish the diagnosis.

**B - Muscle biopsy** - Muscle biopsy is used in the diagnosis of inflammatory myopathies, such as polymyositis (PM) and dermatomyositis (DM), which manifest with muscle tenderness, similar to what is seen here. However, inflammatory markers (e.g., ESR) and muscle enzymes (e.g., creatinine kinase) are typically elevated in inflammatory myopathies. This patient most likely has FM, in which muscle biopsy is not recommended.

**C - Prednisone therapy** - Prednisone is used in the treatment of autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and polymyalgia rheumatica (PR). SLE affects women more often than men and can manifest with myalgias and fatigue, both of which are seen here. However, this patient does not have other common findings in SLE, such as skin involvement (e.g., the typical butterfly rash), joint pain, fever, and weight loss. PR mainly affects women older than 50 years of age and manifests with stiffness and pain in the shoulders, hips, or neck, as well as systemic symptoms (e.g., fatigue, malaise, and depressed mood). In contrast to what is seen in this patient, ESR is typically significantly elevated.

**D - Ketorolac therapy** - Although ketorolac is often used in the treatment of moderate to severe pain, treatment with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and/or acetaminophen has not been proven effective in patients with FM and should, therefore, be avoided.

**F - Oxycodone therapy** - Opioid therapy (e.g., with oxycodone) has not been proven effective in the treatment of chronic pain in patients with FM and should, therefore, be avoided.

