### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Grade IV astrocytoma** - Grade IV astrocytomas (glioblastomas) are highly malignant, rapidly progressive brain tumors that commonly manifest with nonspecific neurological symptoms such as altered mental status, seizures, headaches, and nausea that progress over days to weeks. Similar to what is seen on this patient's MRI, grade IV astrocytomas classically appear as ring-enhancing masses (due to central necrosis) with perifocal edema. These tumors are typically located in the supratentorial white matter of the cerebral hemispheres (e.g., left temporal lobe), and may cross the midline (i.e., butterfly glioma). The prognosis of this condition is poor, with a median survival time of ∼ 1 year.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Hemangioblastoma** - Hemangioblastomas are rare, benign, slow-growing, highly vascularized tumors that most commonly develop in adults (usually between 20–50 years of age) and can cause altered mental status, seizures, and headaches. However, unlike this patient's supratentorial tumor, hemangioblastomas are typically located in the cerebellum or brainstem (infratentorial) and appear on MRI as T2-hyperintense, nodular lesions with cystic components.

Image File: 1225-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589461703c4a1.jpg

**C - Meningioma** - Meningiomas are slow-growing tumors that can cause altered mental status, seizures, and headaches. However, meningiomas are usually asymptomatic and found incidentally on imaging. Although these tumors are the most common primary central nervous system tumors in adults (with a peak incidence in the sixth decade of life), they typically appear on MRI as homogeneous, enhancing masses that arise from the dura with no associated necrosis or rim enhancement.

Image File: 1225-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d92f07fa6.jpg

**D - Brain abscess** - Brain abscesses typically manifest with fever, headaches, focal neurological deficits, and symptoms of elevated intracranial pressure (e.g., nausea, seizures, altered mental status) and occur secondary to viral or bacterial infections. On MRI, a brain abscess appears as a ring-enhancing lesion. However, this patient does not have any signs of infection.

Image File: 1225-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55590ee18290f.jpg

**E - Medulloblastoma** - Medulloblastomas commonly manifest with altered mental status, seizures, and headaches. However, medulloblastomas are more common in children (with a peak incidence at 5–9 years of age), are commonly located in the infratentorial region (e.g., cerebellar midline), and appear on MRI as contrast-enhancing tumors that often compress the fourth ventricle.

Image File: 1225-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5272a95b93f03.jpg

**F - Brain metastases** - Cancers that metastasize to the brain (e.g., lung, melanoma, kidney, and colon cancer) are the most common cause of brain tumors in adults and can cause altered mental status, seizures, and headaches. However, unlike this patient's MRI findings, metastatic lesions typically manifest as multiple, circumscribed lesions with perifocal edema. Moreover, this patient has no history or other systemic complaints that would suggest a malignancy.

Image File: 1225-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93ff06bf.jpg

