### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Obtain an ECG** - In known or suspected TCA toxicity, an immediate ECG is necessary to evaluate for conduction abnormalities (e.g., prolonged QRS, QT prolongation). Inhibition of cardiac fast sodium channels due to an overdose of TCAs can result in cardiotoxicity. The width of the QRS complexes, which corresponds to the likelihood of developing ventricular arrhythmias and seizures, indicates the severity of intoxication. Sodium bicarbonate is used to counter the cardiotoxic effects of TCAs and is indicated in patients with QRS ≥ 100 ms or ventricular arrhythmias. If an airway is established, activated charcoal can be administered within 2 hours of ingestion to prevent further absorption of TCAs. When TCA overdose is suspected but medications are unknown, urine immunoassay can help establish the diagnosis. This test should not delay further management (e.g., airway establishment, fluid resuscitation, ECG).

To rule out hypoglycemia, measuring capillary blood glucose levels is indicated in all patients with altered mental status.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer N-acetylcysteine** - N-acetylcysteine is used as an antidote for acetaminophen toxicity. Acetaminophen is included in this patient's medications and its overdose typically manifests with nonspecific nausea. If left untreated, patients may develop liver failure and hepatic encephalopathy resulting in altered mental status and confusion. However, these symptoms typically occur 24 hours after ingestion, and the anticholinergic features (e.g., dry flushed skin, hyperthermia, pupillary dilation) seen here are not consistent with acetaminophen toxicity.

**B - Administer sodium bicarbonate** - Sodium bicarbonate is used to counter the effects of cardiotoxic drugs with sodium-channel blocking properties, such as TCAs. It is indicated for the treatment of TCA toxicity in patients who develop QRS prolongation of > 100 msec or ventricular arrhythmias. Sodium bicarbonate alkalinizes plasma, which causes a decrease in TCA binding to sodium channels and increases extracellular sodium concentration. Therefore, the remaining sodium channels become more active. Administering sodium bicarbonate, however, is not the next step in management in this patient; cardiotoxicity has not yet been confirmed.

**C - Perform urine immunoassay** - Urine immunoassay is a qualitative test that can be used for screening if the medications of a patient with suspected overdose are unknown. Performing a urine immunoassay is not useful in this patient whose symptoms are most likely due to TCA toxicity. This test would delay another, more important step in management and would not provide additional prognostic or therapeutic information.

**D - Administer glucagon** - Glucagon is used as an antidote in the treatment of beta-blocker toxicity, which can manifest with neurological symptoms (e.g., dizziness, confusion) similar to what is seen in this patient whose medications include metoprolol. However, beta-blockers characteristically cause bradycardia, whereas this patient is tachycardic. In addition, features such as hyperthermia, pupillary dilation, and flushed skin (i.e., anticholinergic effects) are not associated with beta-blocker toxicity. This patient most likely has a TCA overdose, for which glucagon is not recommended, as it would worsen the tachycardia.

