### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Cimetidine** - Cimetidine is an inhibitor of CYP450 and a commonly prescribed drug for relief of GERD symptoms. Concurrent intake of cimetidine and phenytoin will lead to increased serum levels of phenytoin that are causing the toxicity seen in this patient. There are numerous drugs that affect CYP450 and careful revision of a patient's medication list is imperative prior to any changes.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Modafinil** - Modafinil is an inducer of the CYP450. When taken concurrently with phenytoin, patients will have subtherapeutic levels of phenytoin and likely present with poorly controlled seizures.

**B - Nafcillin** - Nafcillin is an inducer of CYP450. When taken concurrently with phenytoin, patients will have subtherapeutic levels of phenytoin and likely present with poorly controlled seizures.

**D - St. John's wort** - St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) is an inducer of CYP450. When taken concurrently with phenytoin, patients will have subtherapeutic levels of phenytoin and likely present with poorly controlled seizures.

**E - Theophylline** - Theophylline is a substrate of CYP450. When taken concurrently with phenytoin, patients show no changes to their serum levels of phenytoin. However, since phenytoin is a CYP450 inducer itself, levels of theophylline may be decreased.

**F - Carbamazepine** - Carbamazepine acts as an inducer and a substrate of CYP450. When taken concurrently with phenytoin, patients will have subtherapeutic levels of phenytoin and likely present with poorly controlled seizures.

**G - Rifampin** - Rifampin is a strong inducer of CYP450. When taken concurrently with phenytoin, patients will have subtherapeutic levels of phenytoin and likely present with poorly controlled seizures.

