### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Trigeminal neuralgia** - Trigeminal neuralgia is a chronic pain syndrome characterized by transient (< 1 minute), recurrent, severe shooting, stabbing, and/or paroxysmal pain that can occur up to 100 times per day in the distribution of the trigeminal nerve. It most commonly manifests with pain shooting from the mouth to the angle of the jaw. It can be triggered by a variety of stimuli, including brushing, chewing, cold, and touch. It is not related to this patient's prior rash and upper respiratory infection.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cluster headache** - Cluster headaches usually manifest as attacks of intense unilateral facial pain, occurring ∼ 8 times per day and lasting ∼ 15 minutes, in contrast to this patient's episodic pain that lasts 30–60 seconds. The pain is also usually periorbital or temporal rather than in the cheeks. In addition, autonomic symptoms, such as conjunctival injection, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, and nasal congestion, are often seen in association with cluster headaches.

**B - Paroxysmal hemicrania** - Paroxysmal hemicrania manifests as recurring unilateral periorbital headaches that occur > 5 times per day and last for 2–45 minutes, in contrast to this patient's episodic cheek pain that lasts 30–60 seconds. In addition, autonomic symptoms, such as conjunctival injection, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, and nasal congestion, are often seen in association with paroxysmal hemicrania.

**D - Postherpetic neuralgia** - Though this patient may have a history of shingles in the right axilla, postherpetic neuralgia manifests with recurrent pain, burning, and/or anesthesia in the same region as a prior shingles flare, not the episodic unilateral facial pain seen in this patient.

**E - Sinus headache** - Sinus headaches are caused by bacterial infection of the maxillary sinuses, usually following a viral upper respiratory infection. Bacterial sinusitis manifests as constant infraorbital pain and tenderness to palpation over the maxillary sinuses that is aggravated by leaning forward, which is not seen in this patient. Patients also usually manifest with fever, malaise, and/or purulent nasal discharge.

**F - Temporal arteritis** - Temporal arteritis can manifest with constant pain over the temples that is aggravated by chewing, in contrast to this patient's episodic cheek pain that lasts 30–60 seconds. Pain associated with temporal arteritis usually manifests as new-onset, pulse-synchronous, dull throbbing headache, with associated jaw claudication. Moreover, temporal arteritis is rarely observed in patients < 50 years of age, and patients often also have scalp tenderness, weight loss, new-onset vision loss, and/or a history of amaurosis fugax.

