### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Vancomycin, ampicillin, and cefepime** - Vancomycin, ampicillin, and cefepime should be used in combination as the empiric treatment for bacterial meningitis in an immunocompromised adult patient > 50 years old. This patient is immunocompromised because of his non-Hodgkin lymphoma and recent chemotherapy and, therefore, coverage of both L. monocytogenes and P. aeruginosa must be considered. A 3rd generation cephalosporin would be inadequate in this setting. Additional causes of meningitis in the immunocompromised adult include other gram-negative rods, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Cryptococcus spp. (especially in patients with advanced HIV). Dexamethasone is only recommended for use in adults when S. pneumoniae is strongly suspected or confirmed and would not be recommended in a patient who is already immunocompromised.

Image File: 1234-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60eff5f4295e8.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Vancomycin and cefotaxime** - Vancomycin and cefotaxime (or another 3rd generation cephalosporin) can be used in combination as the empiric treatment for bacterial meningitis in children > 1 month old and adults < 50 years old. The most common causes of meningitis in this age group are Streptococcus pneumoniae (with increasing rates of penicillin resistance warranting use of vancomycin), Neisseria meningitidis, Haemophilus influenzae, enteroviruses, and the herpes simplex virus. Although this patient likely has bacterial meningitis, his age and health status make another empiric treatment more appropriate.

**B - Ampicillin and gentamicin** - Ampicillin and gentamicin can be used in combination as the empiric treatment for bacterial meningitis in newborns (< 1 month old). The most common bacterial pathogens causing meningitis in this age group are Streptococcus agalactiae (group B streptococci, or GBS), Listeria monocytogenes, E. coli, and other gram negative rods. Although this patient likely has bacterial meningitis, possibly even caused by L. monocytogenes, his age and health status make another empiric treatment more appropriate.

**C - Vancomycin, cefotaxime, and dexamethasone** - Vancomycin and cefotaxime (or another 3rd generation cephalosporin) could be used in combination as the empirical treatment for bacterial meningitis in children > 1 month and adults < 50 years. The most common causes of meningitis in this age group are Streptococcus pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis, Haemophilus influenzae, enteroviruses, and the herpes simplex virus. Dexamethasone is recommended for use in adults when Streptococcus pneumoniae is strongly suspected or confirmed and would not be recommended in a patient who is already immunocompromised. Although this patient has findings consistent with bacterial meningitis, his age and health status make another empiric treatment more appropriate.

**D - Ampicillin and cefotaxime** - Ampicillin and cefotaxime is the recommended empiric treatment for bacterial meningitis in a newborn (< 1 month old). Alternatively, ampicillin and an aminoglycoside (such as gentamicin) could be used. The most common bacterial pathogens causing meningitis in this age group are Streptococcus agalactiae (group B streptococci, or GBS), Listeria monocytogenes, E. coli, and other gram negative rods. Although this patient likely has bacterial meningitis, possibly even caused by L. monocytogenes, his age and health status make another empiric treatment more appropriate.

**E - Ampicillin, gentamicin, and dexamethasone** - Ampicillin and gentamicin can be used in combination as the empiric treatment for bacterial meningitis in newborns (< 1 month old). The most common bacteria causing meningitis in this age group are Streptococcus agalactiae (group B streptococci, or GBS), Listeria monocytogenes, E. coli, and other gram negative rods. Dexamethasone is only recommended for use in adults when Streptococcus pneumoniae is strongly suspected or confirmed and would not be recommended in a patient who is already immunocompromised. Although this patient has findings consistent with bacterial meningitis, possibly even caused by L. monocytogenes, his age and health status make another empiric treatment more appropriate.

**F - Ampicillin, cefotaxime, and dexamethasone** - Ampicillin and cefotaxime is the recommended empiric therapy for bacterial meningitis in a newborn (< 1 month old). The most common bacteria causing meningitis in this age group are Streptococcus agalactiae (group B streptococci, or GBS), Listeria monocytogenes, E. coli, and other gram negative rods. Dexamethasone is only recommended for use in adults when Streptococcus pneumoniae is strongly suspected or confirmed and would not be recommended in a patient who is already immunocompromised. Although this patient has findings consistent with bacterial meningitis, possibly even caused by L. monocytogenes, his age and health status make another empiric treatment more appropriate.

**G - Acyclovir** - Acyclovir may used in the treatment of viral meningitis and encephalitis. It is often given empirically in conjunction with antibiotics for undifferentiated meningitis. However, in this patient Listeria monocytogenes is the most likely causal organism; antiviral treatment with acyclovir would, therefore, not be indicated.

