### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Electromyography** - ALS typically manifests between 50 and 70 years of age with symptoms due to progressive destruction of upper motor neurons (UMN) and lower motor neurons (LMN) in multiple body segments, as seen in this patient. Although ALS is primarily diagnosed clinically, patients with progressively worsening features of UMN and LMN degeneration should undergo electromyography (EMG) to confirm the diagnosis. EMG findings in ALS include spontaneous fasciculation potentials, which reflect the random firing of denervated motor units, and fibrillations and positive sharp wave potentials, which reflect the activity of denervated muscle fibers at rest. Although EMG abnormalities are not pathognomonic for ALS, a diagnosis is confirmed if there is evidence of UMN and LMN signs in ≥ 3 regions in conjunction with clinical findings.

Because the diagnosis of ALS requires the exclusion of alternative diagnoses, an MRI of the brain and cervical spine, laboratory studies, and nerve conduction studies should also be performed. Nerve conduction studies and brain MRI are usually normal in patients with ALS.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Nerve conduction studies** - Sensory and motor nerve conduction studies are a part of the diagnostic workup of ALS to rule out differential diagnoses such as multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN). Key features of MMN include asymmetric paralysis of upper limbs without associated sensory loss and areflexia. However, upper motor neuron involvement (pseudobulbar palsy, hyperreflexia) is inconsistent with MMN. In ALS, which this patient likely has, nerve conduction studies are usually normal.

**B - Trial of riluzole therapy** - Riluzole can slow the deterioration of motor function in patients with ALS and prolongs survival by 3–4 months. Administration of riluzole may be appropriate in this patient once a diagnosis of ALS has been established, but it is not used to confirm the diagnosis.

**C - Muscle biopsy** - Muscle biopsy is not routinely used in the diagnostic evaluation of ALS. This diagnostic procedure is indicated in inflammatory myopathies (e.g., polymyositis, dermatomyositis), which can manifest with progressive muscle weakness, atrophy, and dysphagia. However, upper motor neuron involvement (pseudobulbar palsy, hyperreflexia) is inconsistent with inflammatory myopathies. ALS cannot be diagnosed with a muscle biopsy.

**D - MRI of the brain and cervical spine** - MRI of the brain and cervical spine is a part of the diagnostic workup of ALS to rule out differential diagnoses such as degenerative cervical spondylosis (DCS), which typically manifests with a combination of upper and lower motor neuron dysfunction. However, characteristic features of DCS involve sensory abnormalities (e.g., paresthesia) at the level of the affected dermatome. Furthermore, findings of lower motor neuron injury are confined to the level of the lesion (e.g., hyporeflexia in the upper extremities), and findings of upper motor neuron injury are seen below the level of the lesion (e.g., hyperreflexia in the lower extremities, Babinski sign). In ALS, MRI findings are usually normal.

