### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Desipramine** - Desipramine is a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) used for the treatment of neuropathies such as postherpetic neuralgia. This class of drugs has alpha-reductase anticholinergic effects that explain this patient's acute urinary retention and constipation. Because of their anticholinergic effects, TCAs should be used cautiously in patients with conditions that predispose to acute urinary retention, such as benign prostatic hyperplasia, as well as in elderly patients.

The treatment of choice for patients with AUR is relief of the overfilled bladder via transurethral catheterization.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Simvastatin** - Simvastatin is an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor indicated for the treatment of coronary heart disease, which this patient has. While simvastatin can cause constipation, it does not possess anticholinergic effects and therefore would not explain this patient's acute urinary retention or hypoactive bowel sounds.

**B - Pregabalin** - Pregabalin is an anticonvulsant that can be used in the treatment of polyneuropathies such as postherpetic neuralgia, which this patient has. It is a structural analog of the GABA neurotransmitter and binds to presynaptic neurons, reducing calcium currents and decreasing neurotransmitter release. While pregabalin can cause constipation, it does not possess anticholinergic effects and therefore would not explain this patient's acute urinary retention or hypoactive bowel sounds.

**C - Dutasteride** - Dutasteride is a 5-alpha-reductase inhibitor that can be used in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia, which this patient has. It decreases intraprostatic DHT levels, reducing prostate size and thereby relieving prostatic obstruction of the urethra. Dutasteride does not possess anticholinergic effects and therefore would not explain this patient's acute symptoms.

**D - Tamsulosin** - Tamsulosin is a selective alpha-1 adrenergic receptor antagonist used in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia, which this patient has. Tamsulosin acts on alpha-1 receptors, relaxing the smooth muscle of the internal urethral sphincter to facilitate bladder voiding. Tamsulosin does not possess anticholinergic effects and therefore would not explain this patient's acute symptoms.

**E - Amlodipine** - Amlodipine is a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker used in the treatment of hypertension, which this patient has. However, it does not possess anticholinergic effects and therefore would not explain this patient's acute symptoms

**F - Valproate** - Valproate is a classic anticonvulsant that offers only limited benefits for the treatment of postherpetic neuralgia. While valproate can cause constipation, it does not possess anticholinergic effects and therefore would not explain this patient's acute urinary retention or hypoactive bowel sounds.

