### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Reassurance and follow-up** - In the case of spontaneous, nonbullous subconjunctival hemorrhage (SCH) without other symptoms (e.g., changes in visual acuity, photophobia, eye pain, foreign body sensation), no further diagnostic workup or treatment is needed. Spontaneous SCH typically occurs as a result of maneuvers that increase venous pressure in the eyeball (e.g., coughing, straining, heavy lifting, vomiting, Valsalva maneuver). Patients should be reassured that this condition, although sometimes appearing dramatic, resolves spontaneously when the blood is reabsorbed (usually within 2–3 weeks). The patient should be told that the area of hemorrhage may increase during the first days after SCH as a result of the redistribution of blood in the loculated subconjunctival space.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Topical moxifloxacin therapy** - Topical moxifloxacin (i.e., fluoroquinolone) therapy is the appropriate treatment for pseudomonas keratitis. This condition typically affects contact lens wearers, is characterized by a fulminant course, and manifests with erythema of the entire conjunctiva and sclera, not with a focal and well-demarcated red conjunctival area like the one seen in this patient. Moreover, patients usually present with purulent discharge, foreign body sensation, photophobia, and/or pain, none of which are seen here.

Image File: 1238-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55590ee182ad7.jpg

**C - CT scan of the orbit** - A CT scan of the orbit must be performed in patients with subconjunctival hemorrhage (SCH) who present with a history of blunt trauma and associated symptoms (e.g., diplopia) in order to exclude intraocular and/or intraorbital injury (e.g., globe rupture, orbital fractures, retrobulbar hemorrhage). This patient, however, has spontaneous SCH with no history of blunt trauma.

Image File: 1238-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5639fcbd72fc3.jpg

**D - Topical prednisolone therapy** - Topical prednisolone therapy may be used for short-term treatment of allergic conjunctivitis (AC) in patients refractory to other treatment options (e.g., antihistamines). AC manifests with bilateral conjunctival erythema, itching, and/or epiphora, not painless, unilateral, well-demarcated conjunctival redness, which is seen in this patient.

Image File: 1238-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58808918f0f22.jpg

**E - Slit lamp examination** - Slit lamp examination should be performed in patients with symptomatic subconjunctival hemorrhage (SCH) to exclude underlying conditions of the anterior eye (e.g., conjunctival and scleral lacerations, keratoconjunctivitis, corneal abrasions, foreign bodies, anterior uveitis). Manifestations of these conditions include eye pain, foreign body sensation, and/or photophobia. This patient, however, has spontaneous SCH with no other symptoms.

**F - Measurement of blood clotting indices** - Measurement of blood clotting indices is indicated in patients with recurrent subconjunctival hemorrhage (SCH) and in patients with other signs of bleeding diathesis (e.g., petechiae, epistaxis) to evaluate for an underlying bleeding disorder. In addition, coagulation studies should be obtained in patients with SCH who are on an anticoagulation regimen to rule out overmedication. This otherwise healthy patient, however, has spontaneous SCH with no other symptoms.

