### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Cerebral toxoplasmosis** - In an immunocompromised patient, multiple ring enhancing lesions within the subcortical white matter, basal ganglia, and/or thalamus are highly suggestive of cerebral toxoplasmosis. Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular parasite, contracted via ingestion of cysts in raw meat or cat feces. In immunocompetent patients, the presentation is usually asymptomatic. Cerebral toxoplasmosis is treated with a combination of sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine.

Image File: 1239-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9471844d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - HIV encephalopathy** - HIV encephalopathy is a complication of advanced HIV infection. However, patients typically have evidence of cerebral atrophy and non-enhancing lesions, unlike this patient's ring-enhancing lesions. Additionally, the most common clinical features of HIV encephalopathy include memory losses, depression, gait disturbances, and movement disorders, none of which are seen here.

**B - Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy** - PML is a rapidly progressive HIV-associated CNS disease caused by reactivation of JC virus. Unlike this patient's lesions which are ring-enhancing, PML associated CNS lesions are typically non-enhancing.

**C - Primary CNS lymphoma** - Primary CNS lymphoma (PCNSL), a type of extranodal non-Hodgkin lymphoma associated with HIV infection, can cause seizures and a ring-enhancing lesion on brain imaging. However, patients usually have a solitary lesion (unlike the multiple lesions in this patient) located in periventricular white regions or the corpus callosum.

**D - Cryptococcal encephalitis** - Cryptococcal meningoencephalitis can cause seizures in immunocompromised patients (e.g., AIDS patients) and present with partially ring-enhancing lesions in the basal ganglia. However, an India-ink preparation of the CSF would have been positive for yeast cells with halos.

Image File: 1239-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5992b4cc81ec3.jpg

