### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Surgical excision** - Surgical excision is the treatment of choice for cholesteatoma. Spontaneous resolution is rare and complications are common. If left untreated, patients are at risk for serious complications such as erosion of the temporal bone, permanent hearing loss, facial weakness, paralysis of the facial muscles, meningitis, and brain abscesses.

Image File: 1241-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5718c31e9011f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Topical ciprofloxacin** - Topical quinolone antibiotics (e.g., ciprofloxacin) are indicated in the treatment of chronic suppurative otitis media (CSOM) or uncomplicated otitis externa. Although both conditions may also lead to hearing loss, otorrhea, and tinnitus, the patient's otoscopic finding of a pearly mass in the middle ear indicates a more aggressive condition. Topical antibiotics would not be helpful.

Image File: 1241-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5718b771034cb.jpg

**B - Radiation therapy** - Radiation therapy can be used in the treatment of jugulotympanic paragangliomas. Jugulotympanic paragangliomas frequently manifest as pulsatile tinnitus with or without conductive hearing loss. However, this patient's description of tinnitus is constant rather than pulsatile. Also, physical examination would more likely reveal a bluish pulsating mass behind the tympanic membrane.

**C - Systemic corticosteroids** - Corticosteroids are used for the treatment of hearing loss secondary to granulomatosis with polyangiitis. In the early stages, this condition often present with symptoms of chronic sinusitis, rhinitis, or otitis media. Although this patient's complaints are consistent with chronic otitis media, granulomatosis with polyangiitis would likely present with pneumonia-like symptoms, sinusitis, polychondritis, ocular involvement (e.g., conjunctivitis, diplopia), and/or skin lesions. Also, this condition does not typically present with a pearly mass in the middle ear.

**D - Fitting for hearing aids** - Hearing aids may be useful for many causes of hearing loss (e.g., tympanosclerosis). Tympanosclerosis typically occurs after frequent episodes of otitis media and can also present with unilateral conductive hearing loss. On otoscopy, tymanosclerosis would present as a flat white lesion rather than a pearly white mass.

