### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Dantrolene** - Dantrolene is a muscle relaxant that acts by preventing calcium release into the myocyte cytoplasm. After discontinuation of the offending drug (i.e., chlorpromazine), dantrolene is indicated in the treatment of NMS because it decreases muscle rigidity and thereby body temperature and the risk of rhabdomyolysis. Benzodiazepines are also usually given to patients with NMS associated with psychomotor agitation, as seen here.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Clozapine** - Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic used primarily for treatment-refractory schizophrenia. There is no evidence that this patient's schizophrenia is poorly controlled. Furthermore, this patient has NMS, which requires immediate treatment. The addition of another antipsychotic may worsen this patient's NMS given its antidopaminergic properties.

**C - Cyproheptadine** - Cyproheptadine is indicated in the treatment of serotonin syndrome, a condition with a very similar presentation to NMS. However, patients with serotonin syndrome also tend to have hyperreflexia, myoclonus, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. In addition, serotonin syndrome can occur in the context of polypharmacy with drugs that increase serotonin levels (e.g., SSRI, MAOI, SNRI), none of which are taken by this patient.

**D - Acyclovir** - Acyclovir is used for the treatment of herpes simplex encephalitis, which can cause altered mental status, fever, and seizures. Because HSE disease is rapidly fatal, all patients with suspected infection should be started on acyclovir therapy immediately. However, HSE would not explain this patient's diffuse muscle rigidity and hyporeflexia.

**E - Physostigmine** - Physostigmine is an anticholinesterase inhibitor that can be used to treat anticholinergic toxicity, which can also cause fever, confusion, and agitation in affected patients. However, anticholinergic toxicity causes dry skin, not diaphoresis, and would not lead to muscle rigidity.

**F - Propranolol** - Propranolol is a β-blocker that can be used for symptom reduction caused by increased adrenergic tone in patients with thyroid storm, which shares some clinical features with NMS (fever, hypertension, tachycardia, and altered mental status). However, thyroid storm usually causes hyperreflexia and occurs in patients with hyperthyroidism. It would not explain this patient's muscle rigidity or hyporeflexia.

**G - Vancomycin** - Vancomycin is a broad-spectrum antibiotic that may be indicated if gram-positive sepsis is suspected. Although sepsis can also cause altered mental status, tachycardia, tachypnea, and fever, it would not typically cause hypertension, hyporeflexia, or hypertonia, which are all characteristic of NMS.

