### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - No therapy is indicated** - HSV is transmitted via direct contact with mucosal tissue or secretions of another infected person. Transmission to the brain can occur via three routes: via trigeminal/olfactory nerves following primary oropharyngeal infection (most commonly seen in patients under 18 years of age), via reactivation of a latent infection of dorsal root ganglia, or via reactivation of latent HSV infection of the brain (i.e., previous asymptomatic infection). Transmission caused by viremia has been observed in neonates and immunocompromised individuals. Although the herpes simplex virus itself is highly contagious, person-to-person transmission of HSV encephalitis has not been described, and neither isolation nor chemoprophylaxis for close contacts is necessary.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral ceftriaxone** - Oral ceftriaxone is the drug of choice for postexposure chemoprophylaxis in pregnant patients with bacterial meningitis with Neisseria meningitidis, which can manifest with altered mental status, fever, and headache. This patient has viral encephalitis, so the antibiotic ceftriaxone would be ineffective in preventing HSV infection in close contacts.

**B - Intravenous acyclovir** - Intravenous acyclovir is the treatment of choice for patients with HSV encephalitis and should be initiated upon suspicion of the diagnosis without waiting for diagnostic confirmation. However, acyclovir is nephrotoxic and asymptomatic close contacts should not receive antiviral therapy.

**D - Oral rifampicin** - Oral rifampicin is the drug of choice for postexposure chemoprophylaxis for bacterial meningitis with Neisseria meningitidis and Haemophilus influenzae, which can manifest with altered mental status, fever, and headache. However, this patient has viral encephalitis, so the antibiotic rifampicin is ineffective in preventing HSV infection in close contacts.

**E - Intramuscular immunoglobulin** - Intramuscular immunoglobulin injections can be used as passive immunizations to provide short-term protection against certain diseases such as measles, hepatitis A, or chickenpox. However, these immunizations are only indicated under certain circumstances (e.g., in pregnant women or unimmunized individuals) and have no role in the prevention of HSV infections. Furthermore, intramuscular immunoglobulin injections have certain disadvantages compared to subcutaneous or intravenous immunoglobulin preparations (e.g., higher risk of reactions and local tissue injury).

