### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Diphenhydramine** - This patient's symptoms are consistent with panic disorder, for which he was prescribed lorazepam, an oral benzodiazepine that has CNS depressant effects. Simultaneous administration of other drugs that possess CNS depressant properties, such as first-generation antihistamines (e.g., diphenhydramine, promethazine, hydroxyzine), opioids, and barbiturates, should be avoided because of the synergistic effects and risk of respiratory depression.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Levocetirizine** - Levocetirizine is a second-generation antihistamine most commonly used in the treatment of seasonal allergies and allergic rhinitis. The most common adverse effects of levocetirizine include pharyngitis and hypersensitivity reactions in adults and GI disturbances, fever, and otitis media in children. However, there is no contraindication for concurrent administration of levocetirizine and lorazepam.

**C - Venlafaxine** - Venlafaxine is an SNRI that is commonly used to treat generalized anxiety and panic disorder. The concurrent use of SNRIs and drugs that increase synaptic serotonin levels (e.g., MAOI) is contraindicated because it can cause serotonin syndrome. However, benzodiazepines (e.g., lorazepam) do not alter serotonin levels and concurrent use of an SNRI is not contraindicated.

**D - Phenelzine** - Phenelzine belongs to the class of antidepressant drugs known as MAOIs. The concomitant use of MAOIs and other drugs that increase synaptic serotonin levels should be avoided because it can cause serotonin syndrome. Additionally, the combination of an MAOI and tyramine-rich food (e.g., cheese, wine) can result in a hypertensive crisis. However, the concurrent use of benzodiazepines and MAOIs is not contraindicated.

**E - Naloxone** - Naloxone is an opioid antagonist most commonly used to treat acute opioid intoxication. Concomitant use of opioids and benzodiazepines can result in synergistic CNS depression but this effect is unlikely to be seen with administration of naloxone due to its antagonist properties.

**F - Fluoxetine** - Fluoxetine is an SSRI that is commonly used in generalized anxiety and panic disorder. The concurrent use of SSRI and drugs that increase synaptic serotonin levels (e.g., SNRI, MAOI) can cause serotonin syndrome and is therefore contraindicated. However, benzodiazepines (e.g., lorazepam) do not alter serotonin levels. The combination of SSRIs and benzodiazepines is common in the treatment of panic disorder.

**G - Ondansetron** - Ondansetron is a 5-HT3 antagonist that inhibits the binding of serotonin to its receptor, which increases the amount of serotonin at the synapse. Simultaneous administration of ondansetron and other drugs that increase synaptic serotonin (e.g., SSRIs, SNRIs) can result in serotonin syndrome. However, benzodiazepines (e.g., lorazepam) do not alter serotonin levels. There are currently no contraindications for the concurrent use of 5-HT3 antagonists and benzodiazepines.

