### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Adrenal hemorrhage** - Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome is a rare but potentially lethal complication of meningococcal meningitis, as seen in this patient. It is caused by an endotoxin-triggered coagulopathy which leads to acute adrenal insufficiency and adrenal hemorrhage. Typical symptoms include a non-blanching petechial rash or purpura fulminans as signs of disseminated intravascular coagulation, as well as shock and other signs of acute adrenal gland failure.

Image File: 1249-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94dd0cdc.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pancreatitis** - Pancreatitis is a possible complication of mumps meningitis. Although mumps meningitis can also present with headaches, nuchal rigidity, and fever, this patient does not have parotitis, which is the classic presentation of mumps. Mumps would be very unusual in a patient whose MMR vaccinations are up-to-date. Finally, mumps meningitis would present with CSF findings of aseptic meningitis: normal glucose, elevated protein, moderately elevated leukocytes (predominately lymphocytes), and no organisms on gram stain.

Image File: 1249-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55409ad76bc22.jpg

**C - Vesicular skin eruptions** - Vesicular skin eruptions in pediatric patients are often caused by varicella-zoster virus (VZV) infection, which occasionally leads to meningitis or encephalitis. However, VZV infection is unlikely in a fully vaccinated child, and although VZV meningitis or encephalitis can also present with fever and headaches, as in this patient, these conditions are less commonly associated with nuchal rigidity and typically present instead with focal neurological signs and altered mental status. Additionally, lumbar puncture would show CSF findings consistent with aseptic meningitis: normal glucose, elevated protein, moderately elevated leukocytes (predominately lymphocytes), and no organisms on gram stain.

Image File: 1249-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57d8046e03693.jpg

**D - Temporal lobe inflammation** - Temporal lobe inflammation is a common complication of HSV encephalitis. Although HSV encephalitis can also present with fever and headaches, as in this patient, it is less commonly associated with nuchal rigidity than with focal neurological signs (e.g., aphasia, ataxia) and behavioral changes, altered mental status, and seizures. Additionally, lumbar puncture typically shows CSF with normal glucose, elevated protein, moderately elevated leukocyte count (predominately lymphocytes), and no organisms on gram stain.

Image File: 1249-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60c0ba162b518.jpg

**E - Deep neck abscess** - A deep neck abscess can be a complication of acute tonsillitis, pharyngitis, dental infections, or upper respiratory tract infections. While tonsillitis can also sometimes cause fever, headache, neck pain, and limitation of neck movement, it would not explain the patient's CSF findings which indicate meningitis.

