### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Idiopathic intracranial hypertension** - Idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH; i.e., pseudotumor cerebri) is characterized by chronically elevated intracranial pressure (ICP). Elevated ICP results in headaches, vision abnormalities (e.g., blurry vision, diplopia, photopsia), and bilateral papilledema, all of which this patient has. Increased opening pressure on lumbar puncture and normal brain parenchyma on imaging help distinguish IIH from other causes of elevated ICP (e.g., space-occupying lesions, CNS inflammation). Although obesity is not part of the modified Dandy criteria, which are used to diagnose IIH, this condition is most commonly seen in obese women 15–44 years of age. The management of IIH includes discontinuation of offending medications (e.g., excessive vitamin A intake, tetracycline, danazol), weight reduction (if applicable), and acetazolamide and/or furosemide. Surgery (e.g., optic nerve sheath fenestration, ventriculoperitoneal shunt) is indicated if conservative measures fail.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Migraine headaches** - Migraine can manifest with headaches and visual disturbances (migraine aura). However, migraine headaches are typically unilateral and of throbbing nature, rather than diffuse. Moreover, bilateral papilledema on fundoscopy is not a characteristic feature of migraine headaches.

**C - Giant cell arteritis** - Giant cell arteritis (GCA) can manifest with headaches and visual disturbances (e.g., diplopia, vision loss), which this patient has. However, bilateral papilledema on fundoscopy is not characteristic of GCA. Moreover, GCA is rarely seen in individuals < 50 years of age, and other typical features of GCA, such as jaw claudication, constitutional symptoms (e.g., fever, malaise), and a hardened and tender temporal artery, are absent here.

**D - Cavernous sinus thrombosis** - Cavernous sinus thrombosis (CST), a rare subtype of cerebral venous thrombosis, can manifest with headache and diplopia (due to cranial nerve palsies). However, CST more commonly leads to cavernous sinus syndrome, which manifests with conjunctival swelling, proptosis, Horner syndrome, and signs of cranial nerve palsy (e.g., painful ophthalmoplegia, absent corneal reflex), none of which are seen here.

**E - Multiple sclerosis** - Multiple sclerosis (MS) most commonly affects women and can manifest with visual abnormalities (e.g., vision loss, photopsia; due to optic neuritis) and headache. However, fundoscopy in patients with MS does not show bilateral papilledema. Moreover, the diagnosis of MS is based on the revised McDonald criteria, which relies on the dissemination of the CNS lesions in time and space (i.e., the appearance of new lesions over time and the presence of lesions in different regions of the CNS).

