### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - HELLP syndrome** - This patient has hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet (HELLP) syndrome, a complication of pregnancy that most commonly develops during the third trimester. HELLP syndrome causes acute-onset abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, hypertension, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, hyperbilirubinemia, and transaminitis, as seen in this patient. It is considered a variant or complication of preeclampsia. Management of HELLP syndrome includes administration of magnesium sulfate (to prevent maternal seizures), maternal stabilization (e.g., with antihypertensive therapy), and prompt delivery, if possible.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Immune thrombocytopenic purpura** - Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) can cause thrombocytopenia and has a higher incidence among patients who are pregnant. However, it does not typically cause abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, hypertension, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, hyperbilirubinemia, or transaminitis. ITP can rarely occur in association with autoimmune hemolytic anemia (Evans syndrome), but this condition results in spherocytes on peripheral blood smear, not schistocytes.

**C - Hepatitis E infection** - Hepatitis E infection can cause acute-onset right upper quadrant pain, nausea, vomiting, hyperbilirubinemia, and transaminitis as a result of hepatic injury, which is often more severe if the infection occurs during the third trimester of pregnancy. This patient's history of recent travel to Asia, where hepatitis E infection is endemic, further raises suspicion for this diagnosis. However, it is uncommon for hepatitis E infection to cause hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia. Moreover, severe infections typically cause fever and hypotension (from sepsis) rather than severe hypertension, as seen in this patient.

**D - Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura** - Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) can cause abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, hyperbilirubinemia, and transaminitis. However, this condition usually develops with several days of progressive symptoms, in contrast to this patient's sudden onset of symptoms. In addition, the serum transaminase concentrations associated with TTP are not typically as elevated as those in this patient. Moreover, this patient does not have other typical manifestations of TTP, such as fever and neurologic symptoms (e.g., confusion, headache, focal deficits).

**E - Acute fatty liver of pregnancy** - Acute fatty liver of pregnancy (AFLP) most commonly occurs during the third trimester and can cause acute-onset abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, hypertension, hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, hyperbilirubinemia, and transaminitis. However, this patient does not have other features of AFLP (e.g., hypoglycemia, encephalopathy). In addition, AFLP does not typically cause severe hypertension.

