### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Transvaginal ultrasound** - The best imaging modality to diagnose gestational trophoblastic disease (molar pregnancy or choriocarcinoma) is transvaginal ultrasound. In the case of a complete hydatidiform mole, a diffuse, echogenic, multicystic mass can often be seen (“snowstorm pattern”), whereas a partial hydatidiform mole may also include fetal tissue and increased placental thickness.

Image File: 1257-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60fe6850a28b0.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Chorionic villus sampling** - Chorionic villus sampling can reveal the karyotype of a mole, which allows complete moles (46XX/XY) to be differentiated from partial moles (69 XXX/XXY/XYY). However, it is an invasive diagnostic procedure; less invasive methods should be attempted first.

**C - Thyroid function tests** - β-hCG structurally resembles TSH. For this reason, severely increased β-hCG levels can lead to hyperthyroidism and, in the context of surgery and anesthesia, to an increased risk of thyroid storm. A thyroid function test would be indicated in the case of a confirmed molar pregnancy with a severely increased β-hCG level. However, a thyroid function test is not capable of confirming the diagnosis or differentiating between different forms of gestational trophoblastic disease. Because the correct diagnosis is not yet known, a different test should take precedence.

**D - Fetal blood sampling** - Fetal blood sampling could yield diagnostic information about possible fetal anomalies. Vaginal bleeding and a closed cervical os are consistent with threatened or complete abortion, which are both more likely in fetuses with intrauterine anomalies. However, fetal blood sampling is an invasive and risky diagnostic procedure and is therefore not an ideal initial test. Additionally, increased uterine size together with elevated β-hCG levels make abortion highly unlikely (β-hCG levels should decline following an abortion).

**E - Serum progesterone levels** - Serum progesterone levels should be measured in pregnant women with vaginal bleeding and abdominal pain when β-hCG levels are low (!) to check if the pregnancy is viable or non-viable (progesterone is lower in non-viable pregnancies). In this case, β-hCG levels are highly elevated, which suggests gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD). Progesterone levels would also be elevated in GTD, but since β-hCG levels are already known, measuring progesterone would not provide any information that would affect management.

**F - Fetal Doppler ultrasound** - A fetal Doppler ultrasound would be a good test to check fetal viability if abortion were suspected. Vaginal bleeding and a closed cervical os are seen in both threatened and complete abortion, but an increased uterine size would be highly unusual. Additionally, following abortion, β-hCG levels should decline, which is not (yet) the case in this patient. Even though an abortion cannot be entirely ruled out at this point, it is an unlikely diagnosis.

