### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Theca lutein cysts** - Theca lutein cysts arise from increased gonadotropin levels, most commonly beta-hCG. They are a common finding in complete moles, as an increased beta-hCG level is a typical finding of gestational trophoblastic disease. Theca lutein cysts are also associated with multiple pregnancies, infertility treatment with gonadotropins, or PCOS. These benign cysts often occur bilaterally, have thin walls and clear content, and usually resolve spontaneously within 2–4 months.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Serous cystadenomas** - Serous cystadenomas are the most common ovarian tumor and frequently occur bilaterally. They can also appear as thin-walled and multiseptated on ultrasound, making serous cystadenoma an important differential diagnosis. Considering the patient had an abortion 8 months ago (when an ultrasound examination was presumably performed), it would be unlikely for such a widespread tumor to develop in the meantime. Furthermore, molar pregnancies are not associated with an increased risk of serous cystadenoma.

**B - Chocolate cysts** - Chocolate cysts (endometriomas) are a typical finding in endometriosis and contain blood and menstrual debris. Contrary to the cysts seen in this patient, chocolate cysts don't have a thin wall and the contents are often heterogeneous, rather than clear.

**C - Corpus luteum cysts** - Corpus luteum cysts usually disappear at the end of the 2nd trimester. Additionally, corpus luteum cysts have a thick, rather than a thin wall, and often show peripheral blood vessels, which is not the case in this patient.

**D - Yolk sac tumor** - Yolk sac tumors of the ovary are more common in patients in their 20s. They are only rarely bilateral and appear as large, complex masses on ultrasound (containing both solid and cystic components), unlike the cysts in this patient, which have clear contents.

**E - Luteoma of pregnancy** - Luteoma of pregnancy is an extremely rare, benign tumor that can also occur bilaterally. Contrary to the ultrasound findings in this patient, pregnancy luteoma is typically solid with hypervascularity.

