### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Initiate vaginal progesterone supplementation** - Vaginal progesterone supplementation is the recommended treatment for a patient with a short cervix (i.e., < 25 mm at < 24 weeks' gestation) without a history of spontaneous preterm birth, which is the case here. Vaginal progesterone decreases the risk of spontaneous preterm delivery by enhancing the effect of the natural progesterone pathways that are responsible for maintaining pregnancy. Pregnant women with a history of spontaneous preterm delivery and normal cervical length may also benefit from weekly intramuscular progesterone. Screening of cervical length via transvaginal ultrasound is indicated for patients with a history of cone biopsy at 18–24 weeks' gestation because early detection and intervention decrease the risk of fetal complications. No additional cervical length management is recommended after prescribing progesterone.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Prescribe vaginal pessary** - Vaginal pessaries are typically used for the management of pelvic organ prolapse. Pelvic organ prolapse manifests with symptoms such as stress incontinence, constipation, or a feeling of something bulging out of the vagina, none of which is seen here. Vaginal pessaries have not been found to reduce the risk of preterm birth in singleton pregnancies and are not routinely used in the management of a short cervix.

**B - Perform cervicovaginal fetal fibronectin test** - A cervicovaginal fetal fibronectin (fFN) detection test identifies patients at risk for preterm birth in the next 7–14 days. It is indicated for women with early evidence of labor (e.g., contractions, vaginal spotting, vaginal discharge, or mild cervical effacement and dilation) and in asymptomatic multiparous women at high risk of preterm labor. However, this primigravid patient shows no signs of labor. A cervical fFN test would not assist in the management of a short cervix, which is a risk factor for preterm delivery.

**D - Place cervical cerclage** - Cervical cerclage can be performed in pregnant patients with a short cervix ≤ 25 mm. However, cervical cerclage is usually performed if the patient has a history of preterm delivery, a previous second-trimester pregnancy loss, or cervical insufficiency as evidence by a dilated cervix at 16–23 weeks' gestation, which is not the case here. Current data only supports cerclage placement in patients with a cervical length that is shorter than that seen here (i.e., < 10 mm). A different management step is recommended for this patient.

**E - Repeat transvaginal ultrasonography in 2 weeks** - Repeating transvaginal ultrasonography every 2 weeks up to 24 weeks' gestation is appropriate in the expectant management of women with a history of preterm delivery who have a cervical length of > 30 mm. This patient has a cervical length of 22 mm and no history of preterm delivery; therefore, she requires a different management approach.

