### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Inform the patient about prenatal childbirth education and obstetric analgesia** - Women requesting a cesarean delivery (CD) because of fear of the pain associated with labor and vaginal delivery should be encouraged to attend prenatal childbirth classes and should be informed about emotional support and analgesia during labor. Since CD is associated with multiple maternal and fetal risks (e.g., hemorrhage, surgical injury, complications in subsequent pregnancies, postnatal transient tachypnea of the newborn), a vaginal delivery should be recommended to all women without medical indications for CD. If a patient insists on having a CD, the physician should lead a balanced discussion about the risks and benefits of this procedure before scheduling a CD after 39 weeks' gestation. Physicians are not obliged to perform a CD that is not medically indicated, and the patient may be referred to another obstetrician.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Emphasize the increased risk of placental attachment abnormalities in subsequent pregnancies** - Performing a CD on maternal request is considered medically and ethically acceptable if the care provider ensures that the woman is making an informed decision. Accordingly, if the patient insists on having a CD, she should be informed about the increased risk of placental attachment abnormalities in subsequent pregnancies. However, the physician should lead a balanced discussion about the risks and benefits of CD without overly emphasizing the complications of this procedure and without trying to impose their own opinion on the patient.

**B - Schedule cesarean delivery at 39 weeks' gestation** - In an uncomplicated pregnancy, CD on maternal request should be performed after the gestational age of 39 weeks. However, scheduling a CD is not the most appropriate first step in action in the absence of a medical indication. Moreover, the physician is not obliged to perform a surgery that is not medically indicated.

**C - Ask the patient to involve the other parent in the decision-making process regarding the mode of delivery** - Although it may be appropriate to encourage the patient to involve the other parent in the decision-making process, it is not necessary to obtain the consent of both parents to perform an elective cesarean delivery. Therefore, asking the patient to involve the other parent is not the most appropriate initial action.

**E - Refer the patient to another obstetrician to plan for cesarean delivery** - While performing a CD on maternal request is considered medically and ethically acceptable under the given circumstances, a physician is not obliged to perform a CD that is not medically indicated. Therefore, referring the patient to another obstetrician who is willing to perform this procedure is an option. However, this is not the most appropriate initial action in this patient who is in fear about the pain associated with labor and vaginal delivery,

