### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Trisomy of chromosome 18** - This infant's features are consistent with trisomy 18 (Edwards syndrome). Classic features include a characteristic craniofacial morphology (micrognathia, prominent occiput, and pointy, low-set ears), clenched fists with flexion contractures of the fingers, and rocker-bottom feet (convex foot deformity with prominent heel). The infant also presents with other features that are commonly associated with the syndrome, such as a congenital heart defect (holosystolic murmur suggestive of VSD), and low birth weight (suggestive of intrauterine growth retardation).

Image File: 1263-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e78867c6fe7c.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Trisomy of chromosome 13** - Trisomy 13 (Patau syndrome) is a genetic syndrome characterized by certain congenital anomalies that are also present in this child, including low-set ears, flexed fingers, and signs of a congenital cardiac defect (holosystolic murmur suggestive of VSD). However, other key features of trisomy 13 would also be expected, such as cleft lip and palate, microphthalmia, and polydactyly.

**B - Trisomy of chromosome 21** - Trisomy 21 (Down syndrome) is the most common chromosomal disorder seen in live births. Infants with trisomy 21 are usually diagnosed based on a combination of classic clinical features including: brachycephaly, dysmorphic facial features (e.g., epicanthus, protuberant tongue, flattened nasal bridge, hypertelorism), a single transverse palmar crease, and sandal gap deformity. This child does exhibit some features of Down syndrome, e.g., flattened nasal bridge and upward slanting eyes with small palpebral fissures, but the absence of all other typical features makes this diagnosis highly unlikely.

**C - Maternal alcohol intake** - Maternal alcohol intake during pregnancy is the most common cause of teratogenic damage in children. It manifests in a spectrum of features, which are collectively referred to as fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS). This child does present with a few common features of FAS, such as narrow palpebral fissures, micrognathia, and evidence of a congenital cardiac anomaly. However, she lacks most other typical features, such as a hypoplastic philtrum, down-slanting and widely spaced palpebral fissures, and narrow forehead. Moreover, this patient's rocker-bottom feet, low-set ears, clenched fists, and prominent occiput would not be seen in FAS.

**D - Monosomy of chromosome X** - Monosomy X (45,XO) is the karyotype associated with Turner syndrome, which is a common disorder of sex development in females. However, apart from the widely spaced nipples, there are no features typical for Turner syndrome, e.g., lymphedema of the limbs, high arched palate, and webbed neck, present in this child.

**E - Chromosome 5p deletion** - This genotype is associated with Cri-du-chat syndrome. The most characteristic feature of the resulting disorder is cat-like, high-pitched crying, which is not present in this child. Other features that this child has in common with Cri-du-chat syndrome is a likely congenital heart defect (holosystolic murmur suggestive of VSD) and low birth weight. However, the girl is lacking the typical facial anomalies (e.g., epicanthus, moon facies, widely spaced eyes) and microcephaly.

**F - FMR1 gene silencing** - Fragile X syndrome is an X-linked dominant genetic disorder. This condition is characterized by varying degrees of intellectual disability, increased height and head circumference, and prominent ears. This female patient is very unlikely to have fragile X syndrome because it is most commonly symptomatic in males. Moreover, the physical features typically manifest most clearly during adolescence, and are rarely noticeable at birth. The anomalies described in this infant, the age, and the gender are all not consistent with a diagnosis of fragile X syndrome.

