### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Administer amoxicillin/clavulanate** - Amoxicillin/clavulanate is a first-line antibiotic agent for asymptomatic bacteriuria during pregnancy. Pregnancy increases the risk of bacteriuria and recurrent UTIs because of increased pressure on the bladder from the growing uterus, urinary stasis, and immunosuppression. Screening for asymptomatic bacteriuria is recommended for all pregnant women in the first trimester. Asymptomatic bacteriuria during pregnancy should always be treated since it increases the risk of pyelonephritis in the mother, as well as preterm delivery and low birth weight.

Other antibiotic agents used to treat cystitis that are safe during pregnancy include oral cephalosporins (e.g., cefpodoxime, cephalexin), fosfomycin, and nitrofurantoin (during the 2nd and 3rd trimesters). Follow-up is recommended 1 week after completion of treatment.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer ceftriaxone and azithromycin** - Single-dose ceftriaxone and azithromycin is the first-line treatment for gonorrhea, which the patient was treated for 3 months ago. Gonorrhea is asymptomatic in many cases. If asymptomatic infection is suspected, diagnosis (e.g., nucleic acid amplification testing) would be indicated prior to the initiation of treatment. This combination of antibiotics is not used for the treatment of asymptomatic bacteriuria during pregnancy.

**B - Administer gentamicin** - Gentamicin should be avoided in this patient because aminoglycosides are teratogenic and can cause irreversible bilateral deafness in the fetus. Furthermore, while aminoglycosides may be administered in nonpregnant patients as a component of second-line treatment for pyelonephritis with either aminopenicillins and beta-lactamase inhibitors or cephalosporins, they are not generally used in the treatment of cystitis.

**C - Administer trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX)** - TMP/SMX is a first-line drug for uncomplicated cystitis in nonpregnant women and a second-line antibiotic for the treatment of UTIs in pregnant women in the 2nd and 3rd trimester (except in the last month of pregnancy). However, the drug should be avoided in this patient because trimethoprim (TMP) is a folate antagonist, which may cause fetal neural tube defects in the first trimester of pregnancy.

**D - Reassurance** - Asymptomatic bacteriuria should always be treated promptly during pregnancy. This patient is at a higher risk of developing pyelonephritis from asymptomatic bacteriuria than a nonpregnant woman because during pregnancy the widened ureters and increased glucose levels in the urine facilitate the ascension of organisms to the kidney. Furthermore, if left untreated, there is also an increased risk of prematurity and low birth weight. In nonpregnant patients, asymptomatic bacteriuria does not require treatment.

**E - Perform renal ultrasound** - Renal ultrasound can be performed to evaluate for urinary retention and signs of pyelonephritis. This pregnant patient's asymptomatic bacteriuria puts her at increased risk of developing pyelonephritis. However, she does not currently have any features that would suggest upper urinary tract involvement (e.g., flank pain, fever, or chills).

**F - Perform cystoscopy** - Cystoscopy is sometimes performed to evaluate cases of complicated cystitis (if an underlying urological pathology is suspected, such as stones, malignancies, or polyps) or recurrent UTIs without a discernible cause. However, this pregnant patient has asymptomatic bacteriuria, which does not warrant cystoscopy.

**G - Administer ciprofloxacin** - Although ciprofloxacin is frequently used to treat complicated UTIs, fluoroquinolones are contraindicated during pregnancy. As there are other approved antibiotic agents, ciprofloxacin should be avoided in this pregnant patient.

