### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Placenta over the cervical os** - Placenta over the cervical os is characteristic of placenta previa, which classically presents with sudden painless vaginal bleeding in the third trimester without fetal distress (as seen in this patient).

Image File: 1267-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5c17dc5135f48.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Retroplacental hematoma** - Retroplacental hematoma is a characteristic finding in placental abruption, which can also cause third trimester vaginal bleeding. It is caused by premature separation of the placenta from the uterine wall, and is a life-threatening condition that can lead to both fetal and maternal exsanguination. It also typically presents with abdominal pain and fetal distress, neither of which are present in this patient.

**B - Adnexal bleeding** - Adnexal bleeding refers to bleeding from tissues close to the uterus, such as from the ovaries (most commonly from a ruptured ovarian cyst) or the fallopian tubes (most commonly from an ectopic pregnancy). Although both an ovarian cyst and ectopic pregnancy could cause vaginal bleeding, occurrence this late in gestation would be unusual, and abdominal pain would also be expected.

Image File: 1267-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_609a857ba86bf.jpg

**D - Gestational sac in a dilated cervix** - Visualization of the gestational sac and dilatation of the cervix in a woman at only 31 weeks' gestation would be concerning for preterm labor. Although slightly bloody, mucoid vaginal discharge may occur with preterm labor, bright red vaginal bleeding is not typical. Furthermore, the lack of even mild contractions in this woman makes this a very unlikely finding.

**E - Membranous umbilical vessels** - Visualization of membranous umbilical vessels near the cervical os is characteristic of vasa previa due to velamentous cord insertion. This condition can also present with painless vaginal bleeding if the unprotected fetal vessels rupture. Bleeding from vasa previa is usually accompanied by fetal distress (due to exsanguination) and membrane rupture, neither of which are present in this patient.

