### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Observation** - Because all of the clinical parameters in this patient point toward a normal postpartum course, observation would suffice in this case. The stress of delivery can result in low‑grade fever, shivering, and leukocytosis during the first 24 hours postpartum. Cramping is normal as the uterus involutes, especially when oxytocin is released during breastfeeding. Vaginal bleeding, or so-called lochia rubra, represents the shedding of blood and decidua following birth, and lasts for the first few days postpartum. For now, these should all be considered normal physiological changes following delivery. However, if her fever continues for another day or increases, possible complications should be investigated. Other warning signs of postpartum complications include bleeding that soaks through a perineal pad in 1 hour or less, abdominal pain, dysuria, signs of mastitis, pain or swelling in the legs or acute pain elsewhere, and significant depressive symptoms. Pregestational diabetes mellitus is a risk factor for postpartum hemorrhage, but it appears this woman is bleeding normally.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Dilation and curettage** - In the postpartum period, dilation and curettage can be used to remove retained products of conception (RPOC), such as placental fragments or membranes. RPOC manifests clinically with abnormal uterine bleeding, fever, and pelvic or uterine tenderness. However, this patient presents with a nontender abdomen on exam, a fever that is only low-grade, and cramping rather than uterine tenderness, none of which is consistent with RPOC.

**B - CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis with contrast** - Contrast-enhanced CT imaging is useful in diagnosing complications of uterine infection, such as septic pelvic thrombosis, and would also be helpful if abdominal or pelvic sources of infection unrelated to pregnancy were suspected. Features of septic pelvic thrombosis include fever and fundal tenderness, lower abdominal tenderness, and/or a mass on abdominal examination. However, this patient presents with a nontender abdomen and a fever that is only low-grade, making septic pelvic thrombosis unlikely.

**C - Pelvic ultrasound** - Pelvic ultrasonography may be helpful in detecting retained products of conception (RPOC), pelvic abscess, or infected hematoma. RPOC manifests clinically with abnormal uterine bleeding, fever, and pelvic or uterine tenderness. However, this patient presents with a nontender abdomen on exam, a fever that is only low-grade, and cramping rather than uterine tenderness, none of which is consistent with RPOC.

**D - Hysterectomy** - Hysterectomy is conducted in cases of severe postpartum hemorrhage (≥ 500 mL after vaginal delivery; ≥ 1000 mL after cesarean section) refractory to uterine massage and/or medical therapy. Postpartum hemorrhage is most frequently caused by uterine atony. Clinical manifestations include lightheadedness, palpitations, tachycardia, hypotension, and severe vaginal bleeding. Postpartum hemorrhage may also occur without vaginal bleeding, e.g., in uterine rupture, in which case the blood may be retained in the abdomen. Diagnosis in these cases requires a high index of suspicion, with presentation likely including abdominal pain and hemodynamic instability. This patient's bleeding, vital signs, and fundal height are within normal limits for the first 24 hours postpartum, and her lack of abdominal pain on palpation make postpartum hemorrhage unlikely.

**E - Administration of intravenous clindamycin and gentamycin** - Clindamycin and gentamicin would be the antibiotic treatment of choice for postpartum endometritis, which presents with fever, lower abdominal pain, uterine tenderness, chills, malaise, and foul-smelling lochia. This patient has only a low-grade fever and does not present with abdominal or uterine tenderness, malaise, or malodorous lochia, which makes endometritis unlikely.

