### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Heparin** - Heparin is the most appropriate pharmacotherapy in this pregnant patient with a deep vein thrombosis (DVT). During pregnancy, levels of clotting factors increase (fibrinogen, thrombin), while levels of anticoagulants (protein S) decrease, resulting in a hypercoagulable state. Pregnancy is also associated with decreased physical activity, a general risk factor for DVT. Moreover, the pressure of the gravid uterus on the inferior vena cava can impede venous return and predispose to DVT. Heparin is safe during pregnancy, as it does not cross the placental barrier.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Aspirin** - While low dose treatment with aspirin can be used during pregnancy (e.g. in patients with antiphospholipid syndrome), it is not used in the treatment of DVT or pulmonary embolism. Moreover, aspirin crosses the placenta and can cause premature closure of the ductus arteriosus or vascular disruptions.

**B - Clopidogrel** - Clopidogrel is not used in routine management of deep vein thrombosis (DVT). It is, however, used in the treatment of acute coronary syndrome and peripheral arterial disease, as well as in the prevention of ischemic stroke. Moreover, it is currently classified as a category B drug by the FDA (i.e., no reported teratogenic effects in animals, but inadequate evidence in humans).

**D - Rivaroxaban** - Rivaroxaban can be used to treat deep vein thrombosis (DVT), but whether it is safe to use in pregnant women has not been sufficiently investigated. It is currently classified as a category C drug by the FDA (i.e., animal studies have shown an adverse effect on the fetus, but there have been no adequate and well-controlled studies in humans).

**E - Alteplase** - Alteplase is not used in routine management of deep vein thrombosis (DVT). It may, however, be used in patients with a massive pulmonary embolus and hemodynamic instability. In rare cases, alteplase may be administered via an intra-clot catheter to patients with very extensive DVT. Moreover, it is currently classified as a category C drug by the FDA (i.e., animal studies have shown an adverse effect on the fetus, but there have been no adequate and well-controlled studies in humans).

**F - Warfarin** - Warfarin, a competitive vitamin K antagonist, is not used in the acute treatment of DVT because it takes 3–5 days to take effect (due to the delay in depletion of vitamin K-dependent coagulation factors), although it is often used for prophylaxis. Warfarin is also contraindicated in pregnant patients because of its teratogenic effects (e.g., growth retardation, fetal hemorrhage, and facial dysmorphism).

**G - Argatroban** - Argatroban can be used to treat deep vein thrombosis (DVT), but whether it is safe to use in pregnant women has not been sufficiently investigated. It is currently classified as a category B drug by the FDA (i.e., no reported teratogenic effects in animals, but inadequate evidence in humans).

