### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDRL) test** - This infant presents with features that suggest early congenital syphilis (maculopapular rash on the soles and buttocks with desquamation, failure to thrive, white nasal discharge, hepatomegaly), for which a nontreponemal assay such as a Venereal Disease Research Laboratory (VDRL) test is the best initial diagnostic option. The direct visualization of Treponema pallidum in nasal discharge on darkfield microscopy confirms the diagnosis. Congenital syphilis is most common in children born to mothers who have not received prenatal care and/or were inadequately treated for syphilis before or during pregnancy. Further evaluation of affected infants includes CBC, CSF analysis, HIV testing, and other tests depending on the clinical presentation (e.g., long-bone x-ray for skeletal abnormalities, liver function tests for hepatomegaly). Treatment consists of a 10-day course of IV penicillin G.

Syphilis screening is a mandatory part of the first prenatal visit in most US states.

Image File: 1273-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d942405be.jpg

Question Difficulty: 0

** Other Answers: **

**A - Blood culture** - Blood culture can be used to diagnose granulomatosis infantiseptica, which can also manifest with irritability, poor feeding, and skin lesions in an infant. However, patients typically present with diffuse papular or ulcerative lesions rather than erythematous plaques on the buttocks and soles. Moreover, granulomatosis infantiseptica typically manifests at birth or shortly after with sepsis, respiratory distress, and possibly signs of meningitis. Lastly, white nasal discharge and hepatomegaly are not characteristic of this condition.

**B - Nose and throat swab PCR** - A PCR assay of the nose and throat swab can be used to confirm the diagnosis of hand, foot, and mouth disease (HFMD), which can also manifest with a rash, irritability, and poor feeding in an infant. While the rash associated with coxsackie A virus can occur on the soles of the feet and buttocks, it is usually maculopapular and/or vesicular, and also involves the hands. In addition, most patients with HFMD develop fever and oral ulcers, neither of which are seen here. Lastly, white nasal discharge and hepatomegaly are not characteristic of HFMD.

Image File: 1273-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57c96890cfb8d.jpg

**C - Skin swab Gram stain** - A Gram stain of a skin lesion swab can be used for the diagnosis of bacterial skin infections such as staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome (SSSS) or impetigo, both of which can manifest with a rash, irritability, and poor feeding in an infant. However, bacterial skin infections typically manifest with vesicular, pustular, or bullous lesions rather than erythematous plaques. While the desquamation of skin lesions is typical for SSSS, the initial manifestation of this condition is rapidly progressive, widespread cutaneous erythema with large easily ruptured blisters. In addition, hepatomegaly and white nasal discharge are not characteristic of bacterial skin infections.

Image File: 1273-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f855eb99383b.jpg

**E - Tzanck test** - A Tzanck test is most commonly used for the rapid diagnosis of varicella-zoster virus (VZV) and herpes simplex virus (HSV) infections when the clinical diagnosis is equivocal. This infant's contact with a VZV-infected person puts him at risk for chickenpox, which typically manifests two weeks after exposure. However, the varicella rash is widespread, usually severely pruritic, starts on the trunk, before spreading to the face, scalp, and extremities, and most patients present with rash in different stages of development (e.g., erythematous macules, vesicles filled with clear fluid, crusted papules). Neonatal HSV infection can manifest with skin lesions; however, the lesions are typically vesicular and associated with ocular (e.g., excessive tearing) and oropharyngeal (e.g., oral ulcerations) symptoms. Hepatomegaly, white nasal discharge, and erythematous plaques with desquamation on the buttocks and soles are not expected in either of these conditions.

Image File: 1273-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_553fa09133ebf.jpg

