### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Peripartum cardiomyopathy** - Peripartum cardiomyopathy (PPCM) is a type of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy that typically manifests with features of heart failure (e.g., dyspnea, peripheral edema, bibasilar rales, jugular venous distention) at the end of pregnancy or the early postpartum period. Diagnosis is based on a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of < 0.45 on echocardiography and the exclusion of other potential causes of heart failure. Hemodynamically stable patients with symptomatic PPCM, which is the case here, require supplemental oxygen and diuretic therapy. These patients may also require anticoagulation therapy, given their increased risk of developing thromboembolic complications due to associated ventricular blood stasis and the hypercoagulable state of pregnancy. Many women experience partial or complete postpartum resolution of heart failure within 6 months of delivery, but others require continued management with heart failure medications, devices, or heart transplantation.

While patients with stable PPCM can have a vaginal delivery at term, acutely unstable PPCM is usually an indication for urgent cesarean delivery.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Amniotic fluid embolism** - Pregnant women who are ≥ 30 years old, like this patient, are at increased risk for amniotic fluid embolism, which manifests with signs of respiratory distress (e.g., dyspnea, bibasilar rales, hypoxia). However, symptoms most commonly develop during labor in patients with multiple and/or complicated pregnancies (e.g., placenta previa/abruption, eclampsia), are acute in onset, and include signs of cardiovascular collapse (e.g., hypotension, arrhythmias), none of which is seen here.

**B - Takotsubo cardiomyopathy** - Takotsubo cardiomyopathy (or stress-induced cardiomyopathy) can manifest with signs of heart failure (e.g., dyspnea, peripheral edema, bibasilar rales, jugular venous distention). However, symptoms typically develop as a result of intense emotional or physical stress, are acute in onset, and include retrosternal pain, syncope, and arrhythmias. This patient's symptoms are progressive and neither acute nor precipitated by intense emotional or physical stress. In addition, this condition predominantly affects women who have reached menopause rather than women of child-bearing age.

**C - Severe preeclampsia** - Primiparous patients, like this woman, have an increased risk of preeclampsia, which manifests with proteinuria and signs of pulmonary edema (e.g., dyspnea, bibasilar rales) during the late pregnancy. However, severe preeclampsia manifests with other clinical (e.g., hypertension, headaches, visual abnormalities) and laboratory signs of end-organ damage (e.g., increased creatinine and/or transaminases, thrombocytopenia, severe rather than mild proteinuria) that are absent in this woman.

**E - Pulmonary embolism** - Pregnant women are at increased risk of thromboembolic events such as pulmonary embolism (PE), which typically manifests with dyspnea, hypoxia, and/or jugular venous distention. While PE is commonly associated with lower extremity edema due to deep vein thrombosis, the edema is usually painful and unilateral (not bilateral). The bilateral pedal edema, left heart failure (e.g., left ventricular ejection fraction of 0.35), and absence of other typical symptoms of PE (e.g., pleuritic chest pain, hemoptysis) in this patient make this diagnosis less likely.

