### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Advise the patient against pregnancy** - Although most patients with a history of peripartum cardiomyopathy (PPCM) have full resolution of LV dysfunction within 6 months of delivery, they are always at high risk of developing recurrent PPCM in future pregnancies. This risk is most pronounced in patients with persistent LV dysfunction, like this woman. Accordingly, patients with LV dysfunction should be warned about the high risk of deterioration in a subsequent pregnancy (e.g., worsening heart failure, thromboembolism, and cardiorespiratory arrest) and strongly encouraged to delay pregnancy until normal LV function (LVEF ≥ 0.5) is achieved for at least 6 months. In addition, patients should be counseled that all subsequent pregnancies should be managed by an interdisciplinary team composed of specialized obstetricians and cardiologists.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Initiate folic acid therapy and preconception screening** - Folic acid therapy and preconception screening are the most appropriate next steps in the management of a patient who is planning a future pregnancy. Although the patient feels well, her persistent LV dysfunction should be carefully considered and managed before she tries to conceive again.

**B - Replace enalapril with nifedipine therapy** - Replacing enalapril with nifedipine is appropriate for patients who are currently pregnant or plan to become pregnant because ACE inhibitors are considered to be teratogenic. Before planning another pregnancy, however, this patient's persistent LV dysfunction should be addressed.

**C - Perform cardiac magnetic resonance imaging** - Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging can be used for the assessment of LV volume and function in patients with a history of PPCM whose echocardiography findings are equivocal. This patient's LVEF was accurately assessed using echocardiography. Thus, additional imaging is unnecessary at this time.

**D - Initiate loop diuretic therapy** - Loop diuretic therapy should be considered in patients with persistent LV dysfunction who present with features of volume overload (e.g., dyspnea or dependent edema). Although this patient has persistent LV dysfunction, she currently has no signs or symptoms of fluid retention and does not require diuretics at this time.

