### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Administration of anti-D immunoglobulin** - Administration of anti-D immunoglobulin is indicated in all Rh-negative women with a history of spontaneous abortion, especially after surgical management, as seen here. Because of the potential risk of maternal exposure to fetal blood, with consequent alloimmunization and possible development of RhD hemolytic disease of the newborn in future pregnancies, these patients should receive anti-D prophylaxis within 72 hours of the inciting event, unless the father of the child is confirmed to be Rh-negative. Other conditions that increase the risk of maternal sensitization and warrant anti-D prophylaxis include ectopic pregnancy, hydatidiform mole, invasive procedures (e.g., amniocentesis, chorionic villus sampling), and abdominal trauma during pregnancy.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Serial serum β-hCG measurement** - Serial β-hCG measurements can be used for the diagnosis and follow-up of patients with an ectopic or molar pregnancy and complete abortion. They are not, however, routinely indicated in the management of incomplete abortions.

**B - No further management is needed** - Patients who undergo surgical treatment for incomplete abortion require additional management to prevent a particular complication that can develop with future pregnancies.

**C - Autopsy of the fetus** - Autopsy of the fetus is usually recommended to determine the cause of fetal death that develops at > 20 weeks' gestation. This patient at 15 weeks' gestation presents with incomplete abortion, for which fetal autopsy is not generally recommended.

**D - Refer for psychotherapy** - A referral to psychotherapy may be required for a patient with severe psychological distress, which commonly develops as a result of pregnancy loss. Although this patient is at risk for developing psychological sequelae due to her miscarriage, an evaluation would need to take place first to determine whether referral is necessary.

