### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Obtain rubella antibody titer** - Rubella antibody titer is used to screen for immunity to rubella, which is routinely indicated as part of preconception care, irrespective of vaccination status. Congenital rubella infection, whose clinical features include sensorineural hearing loss, cataracts, and patent ductus arteriosus, is transmitted vertically from mother to fetus. Rubella is also one of the TORCH infections, which can cause spontaneous abortions, premature birth, and intrauterine growth restriction. Screening prior to conception should also include measles, mumps, and varicella antibody titers because vaccination to obtain immunity requires live-attenuated vaccines. Live-attenuated vaccines are contraindicated in pregnancy. To prevent vertical transmission, conception should be avoided for at least 3 months after immunization for these viruses.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Recommend iron supplementation** - Iron supplementation (30–60 mg/day) is indicated in maternal iron-deficiency anemia. Iron-deficiency anemia can increase the risk of placental insufficiency and is the most common type of anemia in pregnancy. Iron supplementation is not needed if anemia is not present; this patient's complete blood count is within range.

**C - Obtain rectal swab for group B streptococcus** - Group B streptococcus (GBS) infection can cause chorioamnionitis, neonatal meningitis, sepsis, and pneumonia; vaginal and rectal swab for gram stain and culture can detect GBS. However, GBS screening is indicated at 36 0/7 – 37 6/7 weeks of gestation rather than before conception.

**D - Screen for chlamydia infection** - Screening for chlamydia infection is recommended in all sexually active women < 25 years of age and all women who are at increased risk for a sexually transmitted infection (e.g., having more than one sex partner, using condoms inconsistently outside a mutually monogamous relationship, performing sex in exchange for money). This patient does not have any risk factors for chlamydia infection, so she does not need to be screened for it. All pregnant women should be screened for the sexually transmitted infections of hepatitis B, HIV, and syphilis at the initial examination (∼ 10 weeks gestation).

**E - Recommend 5 kg weight loss** - Patients who are overweight (BMI 25–29.9 kg/m2) or obese (BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2) are at higher risk of difficulty with conception and adverse pregnancy outcomes. Obese women are at higher risk for hypertension, diabetes, gestational diabetes, stillbirth, and babies that are large for gestational age. This patient's BMI of 22 is normal (18.5–24.9 kg/m2), so she is not at increased risk for weight-related pregnancy complications.

**F - Perform 1-hour oral glucose challenge test** - A 1-hour oral glucose challenge test is used to screen for gestational diabetes mellitus. Potential complications of pregestational diabetes mellitus include gestational hypertension, preeclampsia, eclampsia, urinary tract infections, and fetal diabetic fetopathy. A 1-hour glucose challenge is indicated at 24–28 weeks of gestation; this patient's normal serum hCG concentration indicates that she is currently not pregnant. A hemoglobin A1c test would be used to detect pregestational diabetes mellitus.

