### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Administration of intrapartum cefazolin** - This patient's history of asymptomatic GBS bacteriuria in the first trimester warrants intrapartum GBS prophylaxis regardless of her GBS culture results. Cefazolin is the antibiotic of choice for neonatal GBS prophylaxis in women who have a history of mild penicillin allergy. Patients with a high risk for anaphylaxis (e.g., a history of immediate flushing, angioedema, respiratory distress after penicillin intake) require intrapartum clindamycin, or vancomycin if GBS is resistant to clindamycin. If allergy status is unclear, penicillin skin testing should be performed prior to labor.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Administration of intrapartum penicillin** - Intrapartum penicillin is indicated for intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis in patients with GBS colonization who do not have a history of anaphylactic reaction to penicillin. This patient has a history of a mild reaction to amoxicillin and therefore requires a different approach.

**C - Collection of rectovaginal swab for culture** - A rectovaginal swab for GBS culture is indicated in all pregnant patients between 36 and 38 weeks' gestation to determine their GBS status and prevent possible neonatal GBS infection by giving intrapartum prophylactic antibiotics. However, there are two exceptions: 1) patients who develop GBS bacteriuria at any point throughout the current pregnancy 2) patients who have a history of prior birth complicated by GBS infection. In these groups, intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis is indicated without prior GBS culture.

**D - Administration of penicillin to the newborn after delivery** - Administration of penicillin after delivery is indicated for all neonates with confirmed GBS infection. Vaginally delivered neonates of women with GBS colonization have a higher risk of developing early onset GBS infection. However, preventive administration of antibiotics to the neonate is not recommended.

**E - Collection of urine culture** - A urine culture is indicated in all pregnant patients typically at 12–16 weeks' gestation to screen for asymptomatic bacteriuria, which is associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes (e.g., preterm labor, low birth weight). Repeat urine culture is also required to evaluate the success around one week after treatment of bacteriuria. However, a urine culture has already been performed in this patient and confirmed asymptomatic GBS bacteriuria, which was successfully treated. A different intervention is indicated at this time.

