### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Perform manual repositioning of the uterus** - Immediate manual repositioning is indicated in all patients with uterine inversion to prevent hemorrhagic shock. Manual reduction becomes more challenging with time, as further contraction of the cervix and lower uterine segment can create a constriction ring. Uterotonic drugs should be discontinued before the procedure to relax the myometrium and facilitate repositioning. Laparotomy is indicated for hemodynamically unstable patients in whom manual repositioning is unsuccessful. For hemodynamically stable patients in whom repositioning has failed, uterine relaxants (e.g., nitroglycerin) can be administered and the procedure reattempted. After successful repositioning, uterotonic drugs should be administered to prevent uterine atony and reinversion. If the placenta has not yet been delivered, it is usually removed after successful repositioning, because removal can increase blood loss and cause or worsen hemodynamic instability.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increase intravenous oxytocin dose** - Uterotonic drugs (e.g., oxytocin) should be discontinued in all patients with uterine inversion to lessen further contraction of the lower uterine segment and cervix.

**B - Perform manual removal of the placenta** - Manual removal of the placenta in patients with uterine inversion can increase blood loss and worsen hypotension. Another intervention is required before the placenta is removed.

**C - Administer intravenous nitroglycerin** - Administration of uterine relaxants (e.g., nitroglycerin) can be considered in the management of hemodynamically stable patients with uterine inversion. However, in hemodynamically unstable patients such as this one, nitroglycerin may worsen hypotension.

**E - Perform exploratory laparotomy** - Laparotomy and surgical repair can be considered in hemodynamically unstable patients with uterine inversion. However, a different intervention should be attempted before proceeding to surgery.

