### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Two heartbeats on pelvic ultrasonography** - Hyperemesis gravidarum (HG) is a complication of pregnancy that is most commonly seen during the first trimester in young primiparous women. Multiple gestation, which is confirmed by the presence of multiple heartbeats on ultrasound, is a strong risk factor for developing HG due to the elevated levels of hCG and progesterone. Women with a history of migraines or motion sickness are more likely to develop HG.

Inadequately treated HG may cause thiamine deficiency and consequent Wernicke encephalopathy, which typically manifests with ophthalmoplegia and ataxia, both of which are observed here. This patient is at increased risk due to the absence of prenatal vitamin supplementation. All patients with severe HG (including patients who already have signs of Wernicke encephalopathy) require early high-dose thiamine supplementation.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Metabolic acidosis on blood gas analysis** - Prolonged vomiting causes hypokalemic hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis (not metabolic acidosis) due to excess hydrogen and chloride ions loss in emesis. This patient's ketonuria is most likely a result of prolonged starvation, which causes the buildup of ketone bodies, not a sign of metabolic acidosis.

**C - Abnormal alpha-fetoprotein levels on quadruple screen test** - An abnormal alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) level on prenatal screening is associated with chromosomal abnormalities (i.e., low AFP) or neural tube defects (i.e., high AFP), but is not associated with HG. HG is associated with elevated beta-human chorionic gonadotropin levels.

**D - Abnormal result on oral glucose tolerance test** - An abnormal result on a oral glucose tolerance test is diagnostic of diabetes, and the nausea, vomiting, tachypnea, signs of dehydration (e.g., tachycardia, decreased skin turgor, dry mucous membranes), and ketonuria seen in this patient are also manifestations of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). However, DKA does not manifest with hypersalivation, ataxia, or ophthalmoplegia and instead manifests with polyuria, polydipsia, and abdominal pain, none of which are present here. The ketonuria seen in this patient is most likely due to prolonged starvation, which causes the buildup of ketone bodies.

**E - Megaloblastic anemia on peripheral blood smear** - Megaloblastic anemia on a peripheral blood smear results from vitamin B12 deficiency, which can manifest with ataxia, as seen in this patient, due to subacute combined degeneration (SCD). However, this patient lacks other findings of SCD (e.g., peripheral neuropathy, paresthesia, spastic paresis) and megaloblastic anemia (e.g., pallor, fatigue, glossitis). Hyperemesis gravidarum is not associated with vitamin B12 deficiency.

