### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Counseling on breastfeeding technique** - Nipple injury in primiparous women typically develops as a result of incorrect breastfeeding technique and is characterized by severe, persistent pain during lactation, breast engorgement, nipple bruises, cracks, blisters, and possible bleeding. Anticipatory lactation counseling is the most effective method of preventing nipple trauma and is recommended for all new mothers prior to discharge from the hospital. Treatment of nipple injury includes nursing on the unaffected side until the injured nipple is healed, application of warm water compresses on the affected side for symptomatic relief, and antibiotic ointment for infection prophylaxis.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral administration of Lactobacillus probiotic** - Oral Lactobacillus probiotics can reduce the likelihood of mastitis in pregnant women with a history of lactational mastitis. There is no evidence that they are helpful in preventing nipple injury.

**B - Application of mupirocin ointment** - Application of antibiotic cream to cracked or fissured nipples can be used for the prevention of secondary nipple infection or mastitis. However, antibiotic ointment application has not been shown to prevent nipple injury.

**D - Regular milk drainage with manual massage** - Regular milk drainage with manual massage may be effective in the treatment of breast engorgement and nipple injury due to incorrect breastfeeding techniques. However, it is not known to prevent nipple injury.

**E - Application of cold compresses to the affected breast** - Application of cold compresses to the affected breast can provide symptomatic relief in patients with breast engorgement. This woman's breast engorgement is most likely caused by ineffective milk drainage and nipple trauma, for which warm, rather than cold, compresses are recommended. In addition, the application of compresses would not have prevented this patient from developing nipple injury in the first place.

