### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Pulmonary hypoplasia** - Oligohydramnios, as seen in this patient, can lead to fetal compression that ultimately causes intrauterine fetal growth restriction and possibly a set of complications known as the Potter sequence. Pulmonary hypoplasia is one of the three classical features of this sequence, along with craniofacial abnormalities and limb anomalies. Most affected newborns die shortly after birth due to pulmonary failure.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Renal dysplasia** - In mothers with oligohydramnios, the fetus could indeed suffer from renal dysplasia. However, renal dysplasia is a cause of oligohydramnios – not a complication of it. In this case, the placental calcifications are indicative of chronic placental insufficiency, which is the likely cause of this patient's oligohydramnios.

**B - Meningomyelocele** - Meningomyelocele is not a complication of oligohydramnios but is a potential cause of polyhydramnios caused by cerebrospinal fluid leaking from the open neural tube.

**C - Anencephaly** - Anencephaly is not a complication of oligohydramnios but is a potential cause of polyhydramnios caused by cerebrospinal fluid leaking from the open neural tube, decreased swallowing of amniotic fluid, and increased urination due to a lack of fetal ADH.

**D - Esophageal atresia** - Esophageal atresia is not a complication of oligohydramnios but is a potential cause of polyhydramnios caused by decreased swallowing of amniotic fluid.

