### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Umbilical cord prolapse** - Umbilical cord prolapse is a severe obstetric complication during childbirth that is associated with a number of risk factors, including iatrogenic interventions (e.g., induction of labor, assisted vaginal delivery), fetal prematurity and low birth weight, polyhydramnios, multiple gestations, and a long umbilical cord. Fetal malpresentation (e.g., breech presentation) is another important risk factor for umbilical cord prolapse. In breech presentation, the head of the fetus does not engage the mother's pelvis, creating enough space for the umbilical cord to prolapse through the cervical opening past the fetal presenting part. Umbilical cord prolapse (and subsequent compression) manifests with an abrupt change from a previously normal CTG to one with fetal bradycardia or recurrent, severe decelerations. Management of umbilical cord prolapse includes placing the mother in Trendelenburg position and intrauterine resuscitation along with the administration of a tocolytic (e.g., fenoterol) followed by emergency cesarean delivery.

Before labor, patients with breech presentation are generally managed with external cephalic version followed by planned cesarean delivery if this procedure is unsuccessful. During labor, emergency cesarean delivery is indicated.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Placental abruption** - Placental abruption is most commonly seen in patients with prior placental abruption, chronic hypertension, substance use (e.g., cocaine), and a history of abdominal trauma. Breech presentation does not increase the risk of placental abruption.

**C - Uterine rupture** - Uterine rupture is most commonly seen in patients with a history of uterine scarring (e.g., hysterotomy for cesarean delivery, myomectomy) or an increase in intrauterine pressure (e.g., excessive use of uterotonic drugs). Breech presentation does not increase the risk of uterine rupture.

**D - Fetal shoulder dystocia** - Fetal shoulder dystocia is most commonly associated with fetal macrosomia, a previous history of shoulder dystocia, maternal diabetes mellitus, and obesity. Breech presentation does not increase the risk of fetal shoulder dystocia.

**E - Prolonged third stage of labor** - A prolonged third stage of labor is caused by a delay in placental separation and expulsion (e.g., in placenta accreta spectrum). Breech presentation does not increase the risk of placental retention.

