### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Injury to the cervix** - Genital tract injury is a known cause of PPH. In patients with findings suggestive of PPH and active bleeding (e.g., continuous blood loss from the vaginal introitus) but no visible injuries of the vulva or perineum, and with a well-contracted uterus, as seen in this patient, cervical or vaginal lacerations are the most likely cause of PPH. Risk factors for genital tract lacerations include fetal macrosomia, which is seen here, and operative vaginal delivery. Women with suspected postpartum genital tract lacerations should undergo immediate genital tract inspection and repair of any visible bleeding laceration.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Rupture of the uterine wall** - Rupture of the uterine wall is a rare but life-threatening cause of PPH. Patients with uterine rupture, present with severe abdominal pain and severe uterine tenderness on abdominal examination, none of which is seen here. Moreover, this condition is more common in women with a previous history of cesarean delivery or multiple uterine surgeries.

**B - Insufficient contraction of the uterus** - Uterine atony is responsible for 80% of cases of PPH. Fetal macrosomia, which is seen here, is also a known risk factor for uterine atony. However, uterine atony manifests with a soft, enlarged, and boggy uterus, whereas this patient's examination shows a firm uterus with the uterine fundus palpable at the level of the umbilicus.

**C - Retention of placental tissue in the uterus** - Retained placenta is a known cause of PPH. While women with retained placenta present with delayed (> 30 minutes) or improper separation of the placenta, this patient's placental expulsion occurred 15 minutes after delivery and was complete. Inspection of the expulsed placental tissue showed a normal-sized placenta and complete amniotic membranes.

**E - Systemic activation of the clotting cascade** - Systemic activation of the clotting cascade results in disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), which can also cause PPH. DIC manifests with increased prothrombin and partial thromboplastin times, whereas this patient has normal coagulation parameters.

**F - Normal peripartum bleeding** - Postpartum blood loss of 1000 mL following vaginal delivery associated with features of hypovolemia (hypotension, tachycardia), as seen in this patient, indicates PPH rather than normal postpartum blood loss.

