### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Ampicillin and gentamicin therapy** - Combined therapy with intravenous ampicillin and gentamicin provides broad-spectrum coverage for the most commonly implicated pathogens in neonatal sepsis (group B Streptococcus, E. coli, coagulase-negative Staphylococcus, S. aureus, Klebsiella). This therapy can be initiated based on clinical suspicion in any neonate with features suggestive of neonatal sepsis and later adjusted according to antibiogram results.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Phototherapy** - Phototherapy is indicated as primary treatment for pathological neonatal jaundice in a neonate. Although this could present with icterus in a tachycardic, restless, preterm infant, pathological neonatal jaundice typically occurs within 24 hours of birth. Moreover, this diagnosis would not explain the tachypnea and subcostal retractions in this child.

**B - Methimazole therapy** - Methimazole is used to treat symptomatic neonates with congenital hyperthyroidism. This condition can cause irritability, restlessness, and tachycardia in a neonate. However, this diagnosis is strongly associated with a history of maternal Graves disease, as it is the transplacental passage of maternal TRAbs that causes this condition. Moreover, this diagnosis would not account for the tachypnea, jaundice, and subcostal retractions in this newborn.

**C - Surfactant therapy** - Alveolar surfactant is administered tracheally in neonates with neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (NRDS), which can present with signs of increased breathing effort (e.g., tachypnea, nasal flaring) in a preterm neonate. However, the clinical features of NRDS appear immediately after birth and the affected child would have cyanosis (rather than the icterus seen in this case).

**E - Endotracheal intubation** - Endotracheal intubation would be indicated in a child with severe airway compromise. This could occur in neonatal pneumonia, which is probably the cause of sepsis in this child. However, without any features suggestive of airway compromise (cyanosis, poor respiratory effort, wheezing), this intervention is not indicated.

