### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Transient hypoglycemia** - Infants of mothers with diabetes are at risk for transient hypoglycemia. Because glucose is passively transferred through the placenta, persistently elevated glucose concentrations in the mother throughout pregnancy leads to hyperinsulinemia in the developing fetus in order to maintain euglycemia. After birth, the combination of high insulin levels and the cessation of high glucose transfer from the mother results in transient hypoglycemia. Insulin production may take several hours to days to return to physiological levels; therefore, infants may require exogenous glucose administration to prevent life-threatening complications.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Anemia** - Infants born to diabetic mothers are at increased risk for polycythemia (Hct > 65%), not anemia. Fetal hyperinsulinemia results in an increased metabolic demand that can lead to fetal hypoxia and increased RBC production to compensate.

**C - Omphalocele** - Infants born to diabetic mothers are not at increased risk for developing an omphalocele. However, they are at increased risk for small left colon syndrome, which presents as delayed passage of meconium.

**D - Dilated cardiomyopathy** - Infants born to diabetic mothers are at increased risk for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, not dilated cardiomyopathy. Fetal hyperinsulinemia results in an increased metabolic demand that can lead to fetal hypoxia, triggering RBC production and redistribution of iron from cardiac tissue into hemoglobin. The combination of cardiac tissue iron deficiency and hypoxemia can impair cardiac modeling, usually in the septal regions, and cause hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

**E - Very low birth weight** - A very low birth weight is a complication of various pregnancy-related conditions, including low calcium supplementation, premature delivery, and intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR). Although infants born to mothers with pregestational diabetes are at an increased risk for IUGR, this patient has gestational diabetes, which is more commonly associated with fetal macrosomia as a result of excessive insulin secretion.

**F - Potter sequence** - Potter sequence is a complication of intrauterine growth restriction, which can occur as a result of oligohydramnios. Infants born to diabetic mothers, however, have an increased risk for polyhydramnios, not oligohydramnios; fetal hyperglycemia results in fetal polyuria and thus increased amniotic fluid.

**G - Caudal regression syndrome** - Infants born to mothers with pregestational diabetes, not gestational diabetes, are at risk for caudal regression syndrome. This mother has no evidence of diabetes prior to pregnancy that would place her infant at increased risk for caudal regression syndrome.

**H - Hypercalcemia** - Infants of diabetic mothers are at risk for hypocalcemia, not hypercalcemia. Although the exact mechanism is not fully understood, it is thought that hypocalcemia may be due to abnormal maternal calcium-phosphorus metabolism, decreased concentrations of maternal vitamin D, and/or low levels of maternal magnesium levels that impair PTH release, which results in hypoparathyroidism. Routine screening for hypocalcemia is not performed in otherwise healthy infants born to mothers with diabetes.

