### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Aspirin and enoxaparin** - A regimen of low-dose aspirin and low molecular weight heparin (e.g., such as enoxaparin), is the recommendation for preventing thrombosis and pregnancy-related complications in pregnant women with antiphospholipid syndrome. Heparin does not cross the placenta and is harmless to the developing fetus. Aspirin does cross the placenta, but in low doses the associated risks (e.g., premature closure of the ductus arteriosus or vascular disruptions) are negligible.

Image File: 1298-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5de917ba24104.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Heparin bridged to warfarin** - Heparin bridged to warfarin is a good long-term treatment option for high-risk patients with antiphospholipid syndrome, but only if the patient does not wish to conceive. Since warfarin is teratogenic and crosses the placenta, it would be absolutely contraindicated in this patient.

**B - Glucocorticoids and plasmapharesis** - Glucocorticoids and plasmapheresis are the preferred treatment for acute and severe thromboembolism. Although this patient does have a significantly increased risk of thromboembolic complications, she does not show signs of acute and severe thromboembolism (e.g., shortness of breath, focal neurological signs, and chest pain). At this time, a prophylactic treatment would be more appropriate.

**D - Enoxaparin** - Enoxaparin is part of the recommended treatment to prevent thrombosis and pregnancy-related complications in pregnant women with antiphospholipid syndrome. However, enoxaparin alone is not sufficient to prevent the increased binding of platelets.

**E - Warfarin** - Warfarin is a good long-term treatment option for high-risk patients with antiphospholipid syndrome, but only if the patient does not wish to conceive. Since warfarin is teratogenic and crosses the placenta, it would be absolutely contraindicated in this patient.

