### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Congenital rubella infection** - The classic triad of congenital rubella infection is bilateral cataracts, sensorineural hearing loss (secondary to a cochlear dysfunction), and a heart defect – typically patent ductus arteriosus or pulmonary artery stenosis. Other, less specific findings include petechiae and purpura (“blueberry muffin rash”). Congenital rubella syndrome usually only results if the infection occurs during organogenesis, i.e., during the first 1–8 weeks of gestation. If the transmission occurs after 16 weeks' gestation, the risk of developing congenital rubella syndrome is extremely low.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Congenital varicella infection** - Findings of a congenital varicella infections vary greatly, depending on at what stage of pregnancy the maternal infection occurred. Classically, it presents with chorioretinitis, cataracts, hypertrophic scars tissue, limb malformations (e.g., hypoplasia), and CNS defects. While this patient's cataracts can be explained by a congenital varicella infection, it would not account for the newborn's heart murmur. This newborn is not described as having any limb abnormalities or hypertrophic scar tissue, which are usually seen in a congenital varicella infection.

**B - Congenital parvovirus B19 infection** - Congenital parvovirus B19 infections may cause fetal hydrops and aplastic anemia, which can result in miscarriage. This newborn may have anemia, but she does not display signs of a hydrops such as edema of the subcutaneous tissue or scalp, ascites, or pleural effusions. Also, a congenital parvovirus B19 infection does not explain this patient's cataracts, auditory defect, or the continuous heart murmur.

**C - Congenital syphilis** - While congenital syphilis may cause sensorineural hearing loss, this is typically a late finding that does not occur until children have reached 8–10 years of age. Findings of early congenital syphilis (onset prior to 2 years of age) include rhinorrhea with white or bloody nasal discharge, a maculopapular rash on palms and soles, skeletal abnormalities (e.g., metaphyseal dystrophy, periostitis), and nontender generalized lymphadenopathy, all of which are absent in this newborn.

Image File: 1299-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d942405be.jpg

**E - Congenital toxoplasmosis** - Newborns with congenital toxoplasmosis typically present with chorioretinitis, intracranial calcifications, and hydrocephalus. None of these findings are mentioned in this patient. Cataracts, an auditory defect, and a heart murmur are not typical features of an intrauterine infection with toxoplasmosis.

**F - Congenital CMV infection** - Congenital CMV infections typically present with sensorineural hearing loss, chorioretinitis, periventricular calcifications, and microcephaly. A congenital CMV infections may explain this patient's auditory defect, but it does not account for the newborn's bilateral cataracts or the heart murmur.

Image File: 1299-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9186af0b.jpg

