### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Admit the patient to the hospital for monitoring and schedule cesarean delivery at 32 weeks' gestation** - Women with monochorionic-monoamniotic twin pregnancies are at high risk of maternal and fetal complications, including premature labor and/or umbilical cord entanglement during labor. Because inpatient management improves the survival rates, women with monochorionic-monoamniotic twin pregnancies are often admitted at the beginning of the third trimester to allow for frequent fetal heart rate monitoring. Monochorionic-monoamniotic twins should be delivered via cesarean section to avoid fetal complications such as cord prolapse or entanglement. Elective preterm birth between 32–34 weeks' gestation and careful subsequent monitoring reduces adverse perinatal outcomes.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - Schedule a follow-up visit in 1 week and plan for labor induction at 38 weeks' gestation** - Outpatient monitoring is recommended for pregnant patients with no active complaints or history of serious illness. Induction of labor at 38 weeks' gestation is the preferred management for uncomplicated dichorionic-diamniotic twin pregnancy. However, this woman is pregnant with monochorionic-monoamniotic twins, which carries a high risk for perinatal complications such as cord entanglement. Therefore, a different step in management is required.

**C - Offer ablation of intertwin vascular anastomoses and screen the mother for sexually transmitted infections** - Screening all pregnant women between 28–36 weeks' gestation for sexually transmitted infections is recommended as a part of routine prenatal care. Ablation of intertwin anastomoses is indicated in the case of twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome, a complication of monochorionic twin pregnancies. This woman's ultrasound, however, shows no evidence of twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome (e.g., selective fetal growth restriction).

**D - Provide reassurance and continue with routine prenatal care only** - Providing reassurance is appropriate if the results of the examination of the fetus and mother are normal. Routine prenatal care until delivery is indicated for women with uncomplicated pregnancies. This woman is pregnant with monochorionic-monoamniotic twins, which carries a high risk for perinatal complications. A different step in management is necessary.

**E - Admit the patient to the hospital and perform immediate amnioreduction** - Women with monochorionic-monoamniotic twin pregnancies are preferably admitted to the hospital at the beginning of the third trimester for close monitoring of fetal heart rates. However, amnioreduction is only indicated in patients with severe symptoms due to polyhydramnios (e.g., severe shortness of breath) or to improve uteroplacental perfusion in cases of twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome. This woman's ultrasound shows no evidence of polyhydramnios or twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome. Amnioreduction is not necessary at this point.

