### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Sterile speculum examination** - Sterile speculum examination is the first step in the diagnosis of patients with suspected PPROM. The diagnosis is supported by findings of amniotic fluid leaking from the cervix and pooling in the vaginal vault. A positive nitrazine test, fern test, or rapid detection test for insulin-like growth factor 1 or placental α microglobulin-1 further confirms the diagnosis. Patients with PPROM should be monitored for potential changes in amniotic fluid volumes or fetal heart rate, and for signs of intraamniotic infection. In stable patients at ≥ 34 weeks' gestation, both expectant management and immediate induction of labor can be considered. If patients are managed expectantly, a single course of antenatal corticosteroids should be administered.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Amniotic fluid testing for fetal lung maturity** - Amniotic fluid testing for fetal lung maturity may be considered in patients with an unknown gestational age who have a high risk of preterm birth, which can develop as a result of PPROM. This patient's gestational age, however, was confirmed on ultrasonography and she shows no signs of preterm labor, both of which make this investigation unnecessary. If PPROM was confirmed at this time, this patient would still receive antenatal corticosteroids regardless of the results of amniotic fluid testing.

**C - Administration of ampicillin, azithromycin, and betamethasone** - Antibiotic prophylaxis with ampicillin and azithromycin (to reduce the risk of chorioamnionitis) as well as antenatal corticosteroids (to induce fetal lung maturity) are indicated in patients with PPROM who are at < 34 weeks' gestation. In patients with PPROM at ≥ 34 weeks' gestation, however, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists does not generally recommend antibiotic prophylaxis. At this time, this patient would only require a single course of antenatal corticosteroids (e.g., betamethasone).

**D - Culture of amniotic fluid** - Culture of amniotic fluid is the gold standard in the diagnosis of chorioamnionitis, which is a common complication of PPROM. This patient, however, shows no signs of intraamniotic infection (e.g., fever, tachycardia, purulent vaginal discharge), making chorioamnionitis unlikely. A different step is more appropriate at this time.

**E - Immediate cesarean delivery** - Immediate cesarean delivery may be indicated in a patient with PPROM who is hemodynamically unstable or when fetal distress is detected. This patient is stable and fetal monitoring shows a reassuring heart rate; therefore, a cesarean delivery is not necessary.

