### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Repeat ultrasonography at 32 weeks' gestation** - Most cases of placenta previa detected during the second trimester of pregnancy resolve during the third trimester. Because of the progressive lengthening of the lower uterine segment during pregnancy, the lower edge of the placenta tends to relocate further from the internal os and return to its normal position. Therefore, all asymptomatic women who have placenta previa detected early on routine screening TUS (often performed between 18 and 20 weeks' gestation) should undergo follow-up TUS at 32 weeks' gestation. If placenta previa or low-lying placenta is present, follow-up TUS at 36 weeks' gestation is recommended. A confirmed placenta previa at this gestational age warrants a lower segment cesarean delivery, ideally performed between 36 and 37 weeks' gestation.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Schedule cesarean delivery between 36 and 37 weeks' gestation** - Scheduled cesarean delivery between 36 and 37 weeks' gestation is the most appropriate management option for asymptomatic patients with placenta previa that persists throughout the third trimester of pregnancy. Because this patient's placenta previa was detected at 20 weeks' gestation, it is premature to schedule cesarean delivery at this time.

**C - Obtain an MRI of the pelvis** - An MRI of the pelvis can be performed in patients with placenta previa whose TUS findings suggest the presence of other complications (e.g., multiple placental lacunae for placenta accreta). Although MRI can further assess the degree of tissue involvement, it is not routinely recommended for the evaluation of patients with placenta previa that has been detected on TUS, which has high specificity for this condition.

**D - Advise bed rest until delivery** - Although limited physical exercise and pelvic rest are recommended for patients with placenta previa for bleeding prophylaxis, bed rest is not necessary, as it does not significantly decrease the risk of antepartum hemorrhage.

**E - Administer betamethasone** - Betamethasone should be used to induce fetal lung maturity in patients with placenta previa who are scheduled for cesarean delivery at < 37 weeks' gestation. However, fetal lung maturity induction is only recommended after 23 weeks' gestation; this patient is at 20 weeks' gestation and does not require antenatal betamethasone therapy at this time.

