### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Breast engorgement** - Breast engorgement typically manifests 3–5 days after delivery with bilateral breast tenderness, firmness, and fullness, as seen in this patient. In addition to primary breast engorgement due to increased milk production postpartum, insufficient demand for the breast milk (e.g., due to poor latching by the neonate) can cause secondary engorgement. Areola involvement, as seen here, can additionally interfere with the latching, which may worsen engorgement. Treatment consists of frequent breastfeeding with optimal nursing techniques, warm compresses prior to breastfeeding in order to facilitate draining, cold compresses between breastfeeds to decrease milk production, and NSAIDs to reduce breast pain. A breast pump can also be used to drain the milk and reduce tension within the breast. If left untreated, prolonged breast engorgement can lead to mastitis due to milk stasis.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Breast abscess** - A breast abscess can cause breast tenderness. However, this patient lacks other characteristic features of a breast abscess, such as a fluctuant mass, induration of the overlying skin, or fever. Moreover, a breast abscess most commonly develops unilaterally 2–4 weeks after delivery following an episode of mastitis.

**B - Galactocele** - Galactocele is the most common benign breast condition in lactating women. In contrast to this patient's findings, galactocele typically manifests with a firm, nontender mass in the subareolar region. Moreover, galactocele is usually not bilateral.

**C - Plugged duct** - A plugged milk duct may arise in breastfeeding women when the feeding technique is not ideal (e.g., poor latching by the neonate), which is the case here. However, a plugged duct causes a localized area of milk stasis that manifests as a tender, focal, palpable mass as opposed to the diffuse tenderness and swelling seen in this patient.

**D - Inflammatory breast cancer** - Inflammatory breast cancer can occur during pregnancy or the postpartum period and manifest with breast tenderness and swelling. However, this patient's acute onset of symptoms 2 days after delivery and the bilateral nature of symptoms make breast cancer an unlikely diagnosis. Further, inflammatory breast cancer typically manifests with features such as peau d'orange appearance of the breast, blood-tinged nipple discharge, and axillary lymphadenopathy, none of which is seen here.

**F - Lactational mastitis** - Lactational mastitis can manifest with breast tenderness, swelling, and pain during lactation, all of which are seen here. Moreover, nipple fissures facilitate entry of bacteria and increase the risk of mastitis. However, mastitis is typically unilateral and is associated with systemic symptoms (e.g., malaise, fever, and chills). In addition, mastitis usually occurs 2–4 weeks after delivery, whereas this patient's symptoms started 2 days after delivery.

