### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Erythromycin** - Macrolides, such as erythromycin, are broad-spectrum bacteriostatic antibiotics that work by inhibiting bacterial protein synthesis. They are effective against bacteria without a cell wall such as Ureaplasma spp. (e.g., U. urealyticum) and Mycoplasma spp. and against bacteria with cell walls that are not primarily composed of peptidoglycans (e.g., Mycobacterium spp., Chlamydia spp.). Antibiotics that work by inhibiting the formation of a peptidoglycan cell wall, such as beta-lactams, glycopeptides, and fosfomycin, would not be effective against such bacteria. Azithromycin and non-estolate formulations of erythromycin are safe during pregnancy.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Doxycycline** - Tetracyclines, such as doxycycline, are bacteriostatic antibiotics that bind to the 30S ribosomal subunit and are effective against Ureaplasma species. However, tetracyclines are contraindicated during pregnancy because of their teratogenic effect.

**B - Fosfomycin** - Fosfomycin is a bactericidal antibiotic that is effective against most of the bacteria that cause UTI, including E. coli, S. saprophyticus, P. aeruginosa, and Klebsiella spp. However, fosfomycin works by blocking the formation of N-acetylmuramic acid, a major component of peptidoglycan bacterial cell walls. Fosfomycin is therefore ineffective against Ureaplasma spp., which lack a cell wall.

**C - Amoxicillin** - Aminopenicillins, such as amoxicillin, are effective against some of the common causes of UTI, including E. coli, Proteus spp., and Enterococcus spp., and they are safe during pregnancy. However, aminopenicillins work by blocking peptidoglycan cross-linking and inhibiting bacterial cell wall synthesis, so they are ineffective against Ureaplasma spp., which lack a cell wall.

**E - Levofloxacin** - Fluoroquinolones, such as levofloxacin, are bactericidal antibiotics that inhibit bacterial topoisomerase II and IV and are effective against Ureaplasma species. However, fluoroquinolones are contraindicated during pregnancy because of their teratogenic effect.

