### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Reassurance and follow-up** - During the first trimester, the corpus luteum produces the progesterone needed to maintain the pregnancy, and, therefore, progesterone supplementation is essential in patients who undergo oophorectomy before 10 weeks' gestation. From 10–12 weeks' gestation onward, the placenta produces sufficient progesterone to maintain the pregnancy and the corpus luteum regresses. Thus, during the second and third trimesters, neither a unilateral nor a bilateral oophorectomy will significantly decrease progesterone levels. Therefore, this patient should be reassured about the viability of her pregnancy and should receive standard surgical follow-up and routine prenatal care.

Corpus luteum cysts are common during pregnancy and usually resolve by the end of the first trimester.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Estrogen supplementation therapy** - Estrogen supplementation therapy is indicated in patients who undergo bilateral oophorectomy because this procedure results in hypoestrogenism. After unilateral oophorectomy, however, the remaining ovary is still capable of producing sufficient estrogen. Furthermore, during the second trimester of pregnancy, the placenta also starts to produce estrogen. Therefore, estrogen supplementation therapy is not indicated in this patient.

**C - Pulsatile leuprolide therapy** - Pulsatile leuprolide therapy is used in the treatment of infertility as it stimulates the release of FSH and LH. However, leuprolide is not needed to maintain pregnancy. In fact, leuprolide is contraindicated during pregnancy as it is teratogenic.

**D - Progesterone supplementation therapy** - Progesterone supplementation therapy is indicated after oophorectomy with the removal of the corpus luteum in pregnant women at < 10–12 weeks' gestation. At 15 weeks' gestation, the placenta produces sufficient progesterone to maintain the pregnancy; therefore, this patient does not require progesterone supplementation therapy.

**E - Termination of pregnancy** - This patient's oophorectomy is not an indication for termination of pregnancy, as neither the loss of one ovary nor the procedure itself is expected to pose a risk to the pregnancy.

