### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Have the baby sleep in supine position** - Having the baby sleep in supine position is a strategy recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics for reducing the risk of SIDS. Several studies have shown that sleeping in the prone position is the most significant modifiable risk factor for SIDS. Although the mechanism is not clear, sleeping in the prone position seems to predispose children to suffocation.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Have the baby sleep with the parent** - Bed-sharing is not regarded as a safe practice, according to recommendations of the American Academy of Pediatrics. Studies have shown that children sleeping near an adult are at increased risk for SIDS. Some features of adult beds, e.g., soft surfaces and additional bedding, may contribute to this risk.

**C - Make sure that no one smokes around the baby** - Exposing infants to secondhand smoke increases their risk of SIDS and should, therefore, be avoided. However, it is not the most important recommendation for SIDS prevention.

**D - Avoid feeding the baby close to bedtime** - There is no association between the time at which a baby is fed and reduction of the risk of SIDS.

**E - Use soft bedding and pillows for the baby** - Soft bedding and pillows are factors that have been independently associated with increased risk of SIDS. Studies have shown up to a five-fold increase in risk of SIDS, possibly due to airflow obstruction.

**F - Keep the baby warm with thick blankets** - Excessive swaddling may increase the risk of SIDS. Some studies show that the risk of SIDS increases with the amount of blankets or clothing. Swaddling is a safe and recommended practice in newborns. However, it should be discouraged among children beyond two months of age because it may increase the risk of suffocation if the baby rolls over.

**G - Cardiorespiratory monitoring of the baby at home** - The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends against the use of cardiorespiratory monitoring devices for SIDS risk reduction. There is no evidence that such devices contribute to reducing the risk of SIDS.

