### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Oral acyclovir therapy and cesarean delivery** - The risk for vertical transmission to the neonate from an infected mother is high (up to 50%) among women who exhibit active genital herpes near the time of delivery. Delivery via C-section is indicated in women with recurrent and active genital herpes at the onset of labor to reduce the risk of transmission and thereby prevent neonatal HSV, which could result in severe complications like disseminated disease or meningoencephalitis. Although oral acyclovir does not prevent vertical transmission, it will help reduce this patient's severity and duration of symptoms. In severe infection, IV acyclovir should be considered. If HSV lesions are not genital, delivery can proceed as normal. After birth, breastfeeding can also continue as usual unless lesions are on the breast.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Tocolytic therapy until lesions are crusted** - Suppressing labor via tocolytics would not be a practical solution to preventing vertical transmission. Herpetic lesions take 10–12 days to crust and tocolytic agents are generally not recommended for more than 48 hours (although some may be effective for several more days). Additionally, the virus may still be present in maternal secretions even after initial crusting.

**B - Topical acyclovir and cesarean delivery** - Topical acyclovir is less effective than oral acyclovir at reducing the symptoms of genital herpes. Although oral acyclovir therapy reduces the severity of symptoms and the duration of viral shedding, it does not prevent transmission to the newborn in patient with active genital herpes, which is why delivery via C-section is indeed recommended to prevent neonatal herpes.

**C - Oral acyclovir therapy and vaginal delivery** - Although acyclovir therapy reduces the severity of symptoms and the duration of viral shedding, it does not prevent transmission to the newborn in patient with active genital herpes. Additionally, vaginal delivery would expose the newborn to HSV in maternal secretions and increase the risk of neonatal HSV infection.

**D - Topical acyclovir and vaginal delivery** - Topical acyclovir is less effective than oral acyclovir at reducing the symptoms of genital herpes. Although oral acyclovir therapy reduces the severity of symptoms and the duration of viral shedding, it does not prevent transmission to the newborn in patient with active genital herpes. Additionally, vaginal delivery would expose the newborn to HSV in maternal secretions and increase the risk of neonatal HSV infection.

**F - Proceed to vaginal delivery** - Active genital herpes during vaginal delivery increases the risk of vertical transmission, as it exposes the newborn to HSV in the maternal secretions, which can result in neonatal HSV and life-threatening complications.

