### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Prepare for cesarean delivery** - A prolonged second stage of labor in a nulliparous woman (i.e., > 2 hours of pushing in women without epidural anesthesia; > 3 hours with epidural anesthesia) without successful delivery indicates labor arrest and requires intervention. In women with adequate uterine contractions and an engaged fetal head, operative vaginal delivery may be attempted. In women with inadequate (weak) uterine contractions, labor augmentation (e.g., with oxytocin) may be considered. However, neither scenario applies in this nulliparous woman who has had full cervical dilation and effacement for at least 3 hours with the fetal head still at -1 station. Because the fetal head is undescended, the most appropriate next step in management is preparation for cesarean delivery. Without timely intervention, a prolonged second stage of labor increases the risk of serious complications such as postpartum hemorrhage or a poor neonatal outcome.

In multiparous women, prolonged second stage of labor is defined as failed delivery of the baby after 1 hour of adequate pushing (2 hours with epidural anesthesia).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer misoprostol** - Misoprostol is used for cervical ripening and labor induction. This woman's cervix is fully effaced and dilated, and she has regular labor contractions. Therefore, neither cervical ripening nor labor induction is necessary at this point.

**B - Prepare for vacuum-assisted delivery** - Vacuum-assisted delivery can be considered for prolonged second stage of labor (> 2 hours in a nulliparous woman). However, a prerequisite for vacuum-assisted delivery is an engaged fetal head, which is not the case here.

**C - Observe patient for another hour** - Observation during the second stage of labor is appropriate for up to 2 hours in a nulliparous woman (without epidural). Failed delivery after 2 hours indicates a prolonged second stage of labor and requires further management to prevent complications (e.g., postpartum hemorrhage, poor neonatal outcome).

**E - Administer epidural analgesia** - Epidural anesthesia can reduce pain associated with labor, but is not necessary for this patient who is tolerating the pain well. This type of anesthesia can also be used in preparation for cesarean delivery, which should be performed in this woman with labor arrest and an undescended fetal head. However, spinal anesthesia is preferred for intrapartum cesarean delivery since the application and onset of anesthesia are both quicker when compared to an epidural.

