### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Vitamin supplementation** - Folate is an essential coenzyme required for DNA synthesis and cell division. In the setting of increased metabolic demand from pregnancy, folate supplementation is often necessary to prevent deficiency, which can result in NTDs (e.g., spina bifida, meningomyelocele, encephalocele, anencephaly). This patient's lack of prenatal care resulted in folate deficiency and subsequent fetal anencephaly. The United States Preventive Services Task Force recommends daily supplementation of 400–800 μg of folate for all women planning pregnancy for at least 4 weeks prior to conception, and supplementation should be continued through the first trimester.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Decreased alcohol intake** - Maternal alcohol consumption during pregnancy can lead to teratogenic damage in the fetus and cause fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS). FAS is associated with certain central nervous system abnormalities, such as microcephaly and holoprosencephaly, but it does not cause NTDs.

**B - Smoking cessation** - Maternal smoking during pregnancy is associated with intrauterine growth restriction, stillbirth, and congenital malformations (e.g., cleft lip, gastroschisis, anal atresia, cardiac defects, renal hypoplasia). Although smoking is associated with a slight increase in the risk of NTDs, another cause is more likely responsible for the anencephaly seen in this fetus.

**D - Acyclovir therapy** - Acyclovir therapy is used to treat genital herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection, which typically manifests with painful genital vesicles and tender inguinal lymphadenopathy, both of which are seen in this patient. Acyclovir therapy also prevents vertical transmission of HSV. Though congenital HSV infection can manifest with central nervous system defects, such as microcephaly and hydrocephalus, it does not cause NTDs, including anencephaly.

**E - Penicillin therapy** - Penicillin therapy is used to treat syphilis, which typically manifests with genital lesions, lymphadenopathy, and mild fever. This patient's history of multiple sexual partners with inconsistent condom use increases her risk of syphilis. However, the genital lesions and lymphadenopathy associated with syphilis are painless. In addition, congenital syphilis typically manifests with hepatomegaly, placentomegaly, and polyhydramnios on fetal ultrasonography; it is not associated with NTDs.

