### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Hypovolemia** - Volume depletion secondary to GI losses and poor oral fluid intake put this patient at risk for prerenal acute kidney injury. This patient's dry mucus membranes, hypotension, and tachycardia are indicative of hypovolemia, which results in renal hypoperfusion and reduced GFR. Elevated BUN and creatinine levels with an increased BUN/Cr ratio (> 20:1) is most consistent with prerenal AKI. This patient requires IV fluid therapy; pH, water, and electrolyte balance need to be monitored.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Allergic interstitial nephritis** - Allergic interstitial nephritis (AIN) is a form of acute tubulointerstitial nephritis that is typically caused by hypersensitivity reactions to drugs including PPIs, NSAIDs, antibiotics, and diuretics. The onset of symptoms is variable (usually 2–3 months following the exposure) and usually does not depend on the drug dose. Although it commonly presents with elevated levels of BUN and creatinine and may result in acute kidney injury, additional features (e.g., flank pain, painless hematuria, eosinophilia) are usually present. Also, the BUN/Creatinine ratio would not be increased.

**C - Direct renal toxicity** - Direct renal toxicity can cause acute tubular necrosis (ATN), which is the most common cause of intrinsic acute kidney injury (AKI). Drugs that can cause direct toxicity to renal tubules include NSAID and PPI, which this patient takes. Patients present with oliguria/anuria, elevated creatinine levels, but the BUN/Creatinine ratio would be decreased (≤ 20:1) because the renal tubular damage causes decreased urea reabsorption. Urine analysis would show granular epithelial cell casts and renal tubular epithelial cells.

**D - IgA glomerulonephritis** - IgA nephropathy typically manifests during or immediately after a mucosal infection (e.g., upper respiratory tract and gastrointestinal infections), as in this patient. However, patients typically present with nephritic syndrome, so hematuria, edema, hypertension, and nephritic sediment would be expected. Occasionally it can present with rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (RPGN) with signs of intrinsic acute kidney injury (e.g., elevated creatinine and BUN levels, BUN:Cr ratio < 20), while this patient has an elevated BUN:Cr ratio, which is indicative of a prerenal cause of AKI.

**E - Hemolytic uremic syndrome** - Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) can result in acute kidney injury that typically occurs following a 5–10 day episode of bloody diarrhea due to enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC) infection. This pathogen is transmitted via contaminated food or stool, and given his recent travel to Mexico, he may have been at risk of exposure. However, symptoms of thrombocytopenia (petechiae) and hemolytic anemia (jaundice, fatigue) would also be expected, and the condition usually occurs in children. Furthermore, HUS causes intrinsic kidney failure, which is characterized by BUN:Cr ratio < 20, while this patient's BUN:Cr > 20 suggests a prerenal cause.

**F - Nephrolithiasis** - Nephrolithiasis can occasionally cause postrenal failure if the ureteral obstruction is bilateral and results in significant damage to both kidneys. Although this patient has signs of dehydration (dry oral mucosa), which is a risk factor for nephrolithiasis, patients typically present with unilateral, colicky flank pain that may radiate to the groin with associated costovertebral angle tenderness, which is absent in this patient. Furthermore, urine analysis would likely show hematuria and crystals.

**G - Prostatic hyperplasia** - Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is a common cause of postrenal kidney disease in elderly men. BPH becomes more prevalent in patients aged > 50 years, and considering this patient takes alfuzosin, he likely has BPH. However, the irritative and obstructive symptoms (urinary frequency, urinary incontinence, poor and/or intermittent urinary stream) generally progress gradually over years; acute renal injury due to BPH is unlikely in a patient in his 50s. In addition, postrenal injury does not result in a BUN:Cr ratio > 20.

