### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - B** - CKD is associated with vitamin D deficiency due to decreased 1-alpha hydroxylase activity. By reducing intestinal absorption of calcium, vitamin D deficiency also causes low calcium levels, which in turn stimulates the secretion of PTH, leading to secondary hyperparathyroidism. Although high levels of PTH normally stimulate renal reabsorption of calcium and excretion of phosphate, phosphate excretion is impaired in CKD, resulting instead in hyperphosphatemia. Other laboratory abnormalities in patients with CKD include hyperkalemia and metabolic acidosis.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - Decreased PTH and elevated vitamin D, calcium, and phosphate levels are consistent with vitamin D toxicity. Excess vitamin D (e.g., exogenous supplementation) increases intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate, which in turn inhibits PTH secretion. A patient with CKD is unlikely to have vitamin D toxicity.

**C - C** - Elevated PTH and calcium levels and decreased vitamin D and phosphate levels are consistent with primary hyperparathyroidism. High levels of PTH increase bone turnover as well as renal calcium reabsorption and phosphate excretion. Vitamin D decreases in response to elevated calcium levels. Although CKD is associated with vitamin D deficiency, concurrent renal tubular dysfunction would result in a different constellation of laboratory findings.

**D - D** - Elevated PTH and low vitamin D, calcium, and phosphate levels are consistent with vitamin D deficiency. Decreased levels of vitamin D lead to hypocalcemia, which stimulates PTH secretion. High levels of PTH, in turn, stimulate renal phosphate excretion, leading to hypophosphatemia. Although CKD is associated with vitamin D deficiency, renal tubular dysfunction would result in a different constellation of laboratory findings.

**E - E** - Increased phosphate levels and decreased PTH, vitamin D, and calcium levels are consistent with primary hypoparathyroidism. Low PTH levels lead to hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia. Vitamin D is usually low (or normal) because low PTH levels do not stimulate renal vitamin D production. CKD typically causes a different parathyroid gland disorder.

