### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Transurethral resection** - Transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) is the best initial treatment for nonmuscle invasive UBC. During the procedure, an electrocautery-resectoscope is used to remove all visible neoplastic tissue up to the muscular layer of the bladder. Because of the possibility of multifocal CIS, areas of bladder mucosa that appear normal should also be biopsied during TURBT. To minimize the high risk of recurrence of urothelial CIS (due to tumor cell reimplantation), following TURBT, adjuvant intravesical instillation of antineoplastic drugs (e.g., mitomycin) or Bacillus Calmette-Guérin is often performed (especially for high-grade tumors). Patients should subsequently undergo periodic surveillance using cystoscopy and urine cytology.

Neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy (with a cisplatin-based regimen) followed by radical cystectomy is the treatment of choice for patients with muscle-invasive UBC who are candidates for curative surgery (stage II or III disease) and willing to undergo the subsequent urinary diversion procedure. For patients who are unwilling to undergo cystectomy, a multimodal bladder-sparing approach (with TURBT and concurrent chemoradiotherapy) is performed. Patients with stage IV UBC receive chemotherapy and, depending on the tumor burden, palliative care with TURBT and/or radiotherapy.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Partial cystectomy** - Partial cystectomy can be used to treat small, solitary, muscle-invasive UBC with a specific location (e.g., posterior bladder wall, bladder dome) and certain rare forms of bladder cancers (e.g., urachal adenocarcinoma). This patient has nonmuscle invasive UBC, which requires a different treatment.

**B - Radical cystectomy** - Radical cystectomy is used to treat muscle-invasive UBC. For nonmuscle invasive UBC, radical cystectomy is not a first-line treatment and is only considered if the initial treatment is unsuccessful.

**C - External beam radiation therapy** - External beam radiation therapy is an acceptable first-line treatment option for localized prostate cancer and for certain rare forms of bladder cancer (e.g., squamous cell cancer due to schistosomiasis). Radiation therapy is not used as first-line treatment for nonmuscle invasive UBC, which is seen here. It is generally reserved for palliative care or as part of a multimodal bladder-sparing approach in patients with muscle-invasive UBC.

**E - Systemic chemotherapy** - Systemic chemotherapy is a possible treatment for patients with muscle-invasive UBC. This patient has nonmuscle invasive UBC, which is treated with local (intravesical) rather than systemic chemotherapy.

