### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Urinalysis** - Urinalysis should be performed if pyelonephritis (either complicated or uncomplicated) is suspected. In patients with UTI, urinalysis will show positive leukocyte esterase (reflecting pyuria) and, in case of infection with Enterobacteriaceae, positive nitrites. In addition to urinalysis, urine culture should be obtained in all patients with suspected UTI, except in nonpregnant young women with uncomplicated cystitis, to determine the pathogen and any associated drug resistance.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Cervical swab** - A cervical swab for microscopic examination, culture, and/or PCR analysis should be performed in patients with suspected pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). Unprotected intercourse with multiple sexual partners is a risk for PID, and patients with acute PID may present with nausea, fever, elevated CRP, as well as leukocytosis. However, the presence of costovertebral angle tenderness and the absence of vaginal discharge suggests pyelonephritis rather than PID.

**C - Oral fosfomycin therapy** - A single dose of oral fosfomycin can be used to treat uncomplicated cystitis without pyelonephritis. In patients with pyelonephritis, oral fosfomycin should not be used because the relatively poor systemic absorption of fosfomycin results in poor tissue penetration, which is necessary for treatment of pyelonephritis.

**D - Oral cotrimoxazole therapy** - Cotrimoxazole can be used to treat uncomplicated pyelonephritis in areas with low resistance of E. coli against cotrimoxazole. In patients with pyelonephritis, however, further diagnostic work-up is essential before antibiotic therapy can be initiated.

**E - Abdominal ultrasound** - Although some centers perform abdominal ultrasonography for all cases of uncomplicated pyelonephritis, the appropriate use criteria established by the American College of Radiology for uncomplicated UTIs recommend the use of imaging only if the clinical improvement does not occur after 3 days. A renal and bladder ultrasound at the time of clinical presentation should, however, be performed in patients with complicated UTI (e.g., UTI in children, male patients, and patients with a history of nephrolithiasis/urolithiasis, or UTI with renal insufficiency).

**F - Blood culture** - In a patient with uncomplicated pyelonephritis, a blood culture would only be necessary if the patient was ill enough to require hospitalization (e.g., suspected urosepsis). In this patient without high fever, chills, severe vomiting, or features of sepsis (e.g., tachycardia, tachypnea, hypotension), hospitalization would not be necessary.

**G - CT scan of the abdomen** - An abdominal CT scan would be performed in a nonpregnant patient if there was suspicion of nephrolithiasis, which can cause nausea and costovertebral angle tenderness. However, the nausea and CVA tenderness due to nephrolithiasis would be accompanied by colicky flank pain that radiates to the lower abdomen or groin. In this patient with uncomplicated pyelonephritis, an abdominal CT scan is not indicated at this time.

