### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Urinary albumin** - Microalbuminuria is the earliest diagnostic sign of diabetic nephropathy. Progression of glomerular damage (nodular glomerulosclerosis) leads to increased urinary loss of albumin, which can manifest as nephrotic syndrome. The extent of albuminuria in patients with diabetic nephropathy also correlates with the risk of future cardiovascular events. ACE inhibitors can prevent the progression of albuminuria in patients with diabetic nephropathy.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Urinary red blood cell casts** - The presence of urinary red blood cell casts indicates glomerulonephritis (GN). This finding is caused by the congregation of proteins and RBCs inside the tubules. Clinically, GN can result in red or cola-colored urine, mild edema (due to the relatively limited loss of albumin), and hypertension (i.e., nephritic syndrome). However, diabetic nephropathy classically leads to nephrotic syndrome, not nephritic syndrome.

**B - Serum total protein** - Diabetic nephropathy leads to nephrotic syndrome, which typically presents with hypoproteinemia. However, total protein is usually normal in early stages of diabetic nephropathy and only decreases once there is significant glomerular damage.

**D - Serum urea nitrogen** - Serum urea nitrogen (BUN) is routinely measured as part of renal function testing in patients with diabetic nephropathy and other forms of CKD. However, BUN is usually normal in early stages of diabetic nephropathy and only rises once GFR significantly deteriorates.

**E - Serum creatinine** - Serum creatinine is routinely measured as part of renal function testing in patients with diabetic nephropathy and other forms of CKD. However, it is usually normal in early stages of diabetic nephropathy and only rises once the GFR significantly deteriorates.

