### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Oral nitrofurantoin** - Empiric oral nitrofurantoin is a first-line antibiotic for uncomplicated UTI in a woman who is not pregnant. Other first-line antibiotics for uncomplicated UTI are trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) and fosfomycin. Persistent symptoms after 2–3 days of treatment with a first-line antibiotic indicate possible complicated UTI or a need to change antibiotic therapies. Both nitrofurantoin and fosfomycin should be avoided in pyelonephritis because they are unable to reach lasting therapeutic concentrations in the upper urinary tract.

Oral fosfomycin can also be used as a first-line antibiotic to treat complicated UTI in pregnant women. However, a urine culture must be obtained before administering the first dose.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ultrasound of bladder** - Ultrasound of the bladder is indicated in patients who present with features of complicated cystitis. As this patient has no history of frequent recurrences and no features of a complicated UTI, such as pregnancy, immunocompromised status, and recent urinary tract instrumentation, a bladder ultrasound is not currently indicated.

**B - Oral ciprofloxacin** - Oral ciprofloxacin is not preferred as a first-line agent for uncomplicated UTI because of the increasing bacterial resistance to this agent. Oral ciprofloxacin is reserved as a first-line antibiotic for patients with uncomplicated pyelonephritis, which classically manifests with fever, flank pain, and/or costovertebral angle tenderness, none of which are seen in this patient. Oral ciprofloxacin is also reserved for the treatment of complicated UTI or as a second-line agent in uncomplicated UTI. Because this patient has no risk factors for a complicated UTI (e.g., pregnancy, underlying urinary tract abnormality, or immunocompromised status), and she has not received a trial of first-line therapy, oral ciprofloxacin is not indicated.

**C - Reassurance and follow-up in 2 weeks** - Reassurance and follow-up is an inappropriate next step for this patient, whose clinical presentation indicates uncomplicated UTI. This patient requires further management because an untreated UTI can progress to complicated UTI and bacteremia.

**D - Urinary catheterization** - Urinary catheterization is indicated if there are signs of acute urinary retention or bladder outflow obstruction. A history of urinary catheterization is a risk factor for developing UTI (catheter-associated UTI). Urinary catheterization would be inappropriate for this patient, whose clinical presentation indicates an uncomplicated UTI.

**E - Oral amoxicillin-clavulanate** - Oral amoxicillin-clavulanate is not used as a first-line empirical therapy for uncomplicated UTI in a woman who is not pregnant, like this patient, because of the increasing bacterial resistance to this antibiotic. Amoxicillin-clavulanate is reserved as a first-line empirical antibiotic for the management of acute cystitis or asymptomatic bacteriuria in pregnant women because it is a broad-spectrum non-teratogenic antibiotic.

**F - Cystoscopy** - Cystoscopy is not indicated for the routine work-up of a patient with an uncomplicated UTI. Cystoscopy may be indicated if bladder outflow obstruction (e.g., due to strictures or stones) or diverticula are suspected, or in patients with features that suggest interstitial cystitis. Instrumentation of the urinary tract when there is evidence of an active infection is contraindicated.

**H - Urine culture** - Urine culture is the confirmatory test for UTI and is used to identify the causative organism and its antibiotic susceptibility. However, urine culture is not routinely indicated to confirm UTI. Common indications for urine culture include complicated UTIs, non-response to initial therapy of uncomplicated UTI, and dysuria or asymptomatic bacteriuria in a pregnant woman. The presence of ≥ 105 colony-forming units on urine culture (or ≥ 103 CFU/mL for symptomatic patients) confirms UTI. In patients with uncomplicated UTI, like this woman, a urinalysis confirming an infection is sufficient to initiate management.

