### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Benign prostatic hyperplasia** - This patient has typical manifestations of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), a common condition that affects a majority of men > 60 years of age in the US. The etiology of this condition is not fully understood but likely involves factors that play a role in prostatic hyperplasia and growth, such as androgens and estrogens. This growth results in prostatic compression of the urethra, which leads to bladder outlet obstruction. Patients who are suspected of having BPH should receive a urinalysis to evaluate for UTI and hematuria; BPH is a risk factor for recurrent UTIs, as seen in this patient, because incomplete voiding leads to urinary stasis. First-line treatment of BPH consists of behavioral modifications (e.g., restriction of fluid intake before bedtime, avoidance of caffeine and alcohol) and pharmacologic therapy with alpha-blockers (e.g., tamsulosin).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Neurogenic bladder** - Neurogenic bladder can manifest with increased urinary frequency and recurrent UTIs. However, it does not result in an enlarged prostate. In addition, patients with this condition typically have urinary retention and overflow incontinence (due to impaired control of bladder and sphincter muscle function), as well as an underlying neurologic disorder (e.g., multiple sclerosis, spinal cord compression, stroke), none of which is seen in this patient.

**B - Bladder calculus** - Bladder calculi, which develop as a result of urinary stasis caused by incomplete emptying of the bladder, can cause increased urinary frequency and a weak urinary stream. However, they most commonly cause painless hematuria, dysuria, or abdominal pain, none of which is seen in this patient. Moreover, this condition does not cause an enlarged prostate.

**C - Medication adverse effect** - Canagliflozin is an SGLT2 inhibitor that promotes renal excretion of glucose and causes osmotic diuresis. Though its adverse effects include polyuria and an increased rate of UTIs, it does not result in obstructive voiding symptoms or an enlarged prostate. In addition, neither propranolol nor venlafaxine is known to cause lower urinary tract symptoms.

**D - Acute prostatitis** - Acute prostatitis can manifest with irritative and obstructive urinary tract symptoms, including frequency, nocturia, and a weak urinary stream. Rectal examination may reveal an enlarged prostate. However, the prostate is usually extremely tender on palpation. In addition, acute prostatitis typically causes acute systemic illness with symptoms such as fever, malaise, dysuria, and pelvic or perineal pain, none of which is seen in this patient. Moreover, this patient's 1-year history of urinary symptoms suggests a condition that has a more insidious course.

**E - Prostate cancer** - Prostate cancer is a malignancy that is more common among African-Americans and results in an enlarged prostate. However, it typically manifests with a nodular, not smooth, prostate. In addition, prostate cancer is generally slow-growing and most commonly located in the periphery of the prostate, not close to the urethra. Symptoms of urethral compression (e.g., weak stream), therefore, typically only occur in patients with advanced disease. This patient does not have manifestations of advanced prostate cancer (e.g., fatigue, weight loss, hematuria, bone pain from metastatic disease).

**F - Urethral stricture** - Urethral strictures can cause a weak urinary stream and recurrent UTIs. However, this condition is not typically associated with urinary frequency or nocturia and does not result in an enlarged prostate. In addition, most patients with urethral strictures have a history of prior urethral instrumentation and/or urogenital trauma. This patient had a urologic procedure (nephrolithotomy), but it was conducted via a percutaneous approach.

