### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Administer normal saline** - Intravenous administration of normal saline prior to, and for several hours after, performing contrast-enhanced CT angiography is indicated in patients who are at risk of developing contrast-induced nephropathy. Major risk factors include chronic kidney disease, diabetes mellitus (particularly diabetic nephropathy), NSAID use, and dehydration. This patient's laboratory studies show elevated creatinine and borderline normal BUN level, indicating impaired kidney function. Adequate prophylactic hydration is therefore vital. Laboratory monitoring is necessary following the procedure to detect worsening creatinine levels (typically highest after 3–5 days), which would be indicative of contrast-induced nephropathy.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Remote ischemic preconditioning** - Remote ischemic preconditioning (RIPC) consists of deliberately inducing transient ischemia in an organ to prevent subsequent ischemic injury. RIPC is not performed to prevent contrast-induced nephropathy as there is not enough evidence to support its effectiveness and safety.

**B - Administer mannitol** - Administering mannitol and other diuretics prior to performing contrast-enhanced CT angiography is not effective in preventing contrast-induced nephropathy in at-risk patients. Diuretics can result in volume depletion and dehydration, which actually increase the risk of contrast-induced nephropathy!

**C - Administer ionic contrast** - Ionic contrast medium is a high-osmolar agent that can worsen renal function in patients with borderline creatinine levels, which increases the risk of contrast-induced nephropathy. In patients at risk of developing contrast-induced nephropathy (e.g., history of chronic kidney disease, diabetes mellitus), such as this man, the lowest effective dose of non-ionic contrast medium should be used.

**D - Perform postprocedural hemodialysis** - There is no evidence that hemodialysis following intravascular administration of a contrast agent prevents contrast-induced nephropathy in at-risk patients.

**E - Administer acetylcysteine** - Acetylcysteine may help prevent contrast-induced nephropathy. However, studies have shown inconsistent results of its efficacy, making an alternative preventive method a better first step.

**G - Administer sodium bicarbonate** - Although sodium bicarbonate may be administered to prevent contrast-induced nephropathy, it is a more expensive option and carries a risk of compounding error because it must be prepared using bicarbonate and sterile water. Also, studies have not shown any benefit of sodium bicarbonate compared to a cheaper alternative, which is considered the preferred preventive measure.

