### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Renal ultrasonography** - Renal ultrasonography can be used to evaluate the kidney for hydronephrosis as a consequence of BPH-induced urinary retention. While a unilateral upper urinary tract obstruction usually does not cause elevation of retention parameters in an individual with two healthy kidneys, a lower urinary tract obstruction (e.g., BPH) can result in backup of urine to both kidneys. This, in turn, can lead to hydronephrosis and postrenal acute kidney injury, which is a likely diagnosis in this patient. Renal ultrasound is therefore the best method for ascertaining the cause of this patient's postrenal kidney failure.

Image File: 1349-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_540f188219344.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Four-glass test** - The four-glass test is performed in individuals with suspected chronic bacterial prostatitis. Chronic bacterial prostatitis can present with symptoms of chronic bladder irritation (i.e., dysuria, nocturia), as seen in this patient. However, rectal examination would usually show a prostate of normal size, which would not cause postrenal acute kidney injury. Moreover, this patient lacks other findings of chronic bacterial prostatitis, including (mild) genitourinary pain, erectile dysfunction, and bloody semen.

**B - CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis** - CT of the abdomen and pelvis can be used to assess for urolithiasis, which can present with fatigue, nausea, and dysuria. However, unilateral urolithiasis does not usually cause elevation of retention parameters in an individual with two healthy kidneys, and urolithiasis typically presents with colicky flank pain and hematuria, which this patient does not have. CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis is also used to detect renal masses, for which the patient is at risk given his family history of renal cell carcinoma (RCC). RCC can also cause fatigue (due to anemia). However, this patient is not anemic and he lacks other typical signs of RCC, such as hematuria, flank pain, weight loss, or fever, making this diagnosis less likely. CT scan is not the preferred initial diagnostic test in patients with suspected postrenal acute kidney injury.

**C - Transrectal ultrasonography** - Transrectal ultrasonography (TRUS) is indicated to evaluate patients with suspected prostate cancer, prostatitis, and prostatic abscess. This patient's fatigue, enlarged prostate, and urinary frequency may be consistent with prostate cancer. However, prostate cancer usually presents with an irregular and nodular prostate on digital rectal examination (DRE). Moreover, prostate cancer most often affects the periphery of the prostate and is therefore less likely to cause lower urinary tract obstruction with postrenal acute kidney injury. Finally, the absence of leukocytosis, fever, and pain on palpation of the prostate make prostatitis and/or prostatic abscess unlikely in this patient.

**E - Prostate biopsy** - Prostate biopsy is indicated for suspected prostate cancer. This patient's fatigue, enlarged prostate, and urinary frequency may be consistent with prostate cancer. However, prostate cancer usually presents with elevated levels of prostate-specific antigen and an irregular and nodular prostate on digital rectal examination (DRE). Moreover, prostate cancer most often affects the periphery of the prostate and is therefore less likely to cause lower urinary tract obstruction with postrenal acute kidney injury.

**F - Ureteral stenting** - Ureteral stenting is recommended in patients with urinary obstruction (e.g., due to ureteral stones) who develop complications such as (infected) hydronephrosis or sepsis. This patient most likely has hydronephrosis due to obstruction of the urethra, not the ureter. Furthermore, he does not present with fever or leukocytosis, which would suggest a urinary tract infection. Hydronephrosis should be confirmed before initiating treatment.

**G - Cystoscopy** - Cystoscopy is indicated to evaluate patients with suspected bladder cancer. Although this patient presents with urinary frequency (nocturia) and symptoms of bladder outlet obstruction (dysuria, elevated retention parameters), digital rectal examination suggests that the cause of this patient's symptoms is an enlarged prostate (BPH). Cystoscopy is not routinely performed in the evaluation of BPH. If this patient had presented with gross or microscopic hematuria or recurrent urinary tract infections (UTIs), cystoscopy would have been indicated.

