### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Perform ureteral stenting** - First-line management of uncomplicated upper urinary tract obstruction is placing ureteral stents to relieve the obstruction. Common causes of upper urinary tract obstruction include traumatic injury, instrumentation, malignancy, infection, congenital obstruction, and retroperitoneal fibrosis (which this patient has). Further evaluation and treatment of the underlying cause are indicated once the acute obstruction has been resolved.

Image File: 1350-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b1e414dcd478.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Place a urethral catheter** - A urethral catheter can be used to bypass a lower urinary tract obstruction (e.g., due to BPH, urethral mass, urethral stricture). Because this patient's empty bladder suggests obstruction at the level of the ureters, a urethral catheter would not resolve the obstruction.

**C - Initiate oxybutynin therapy** - Oxybutynin is a muscarinic antagonist commonly used for the treatment of spastic bladder. This patient's anuria and acute kidney injury suggest urinary tract obstruction, rather than spastic bladder. Furthermore, oxybutynin can cause urinary obstruction and would be contraindicated in this patient.

**D - Place a suprapubic catheter** - Suprapubic catheterization may be used to resolve a complicated lower urinary tract obstruction. A catheter is inserted through the abdominal wall above the pubic symphysis directly into the bladder. This patient's obstruction is proximal to the bladder, as noted by a lack of suprapubic fullness and a collapsed bladder on CT; drainage of the bladder would not resolve the obstruction.

**E - Initiate tamsulosin therapy** - Tamsulosin is an alpha-1 antagonist frequently used in the treatment of BPH, a common cause of lower urinary tract obstruction and chronic kidney disease in elderly men. This patient's anuria and elevated creatinine are suggestive of acute kidney injury and his empty bladder on imaging suggests upper urinary tract obstruction due to ureteral compression. Tamsulosin would not be helpful in this situation.

