### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Pyelonephritis** - Pyelonephritis is the most likely diagnosis based on the patient's presentation and urine study results. Pyelonephritis presents with symptoms similar to urethritis (frequency, urgency, and dysuria), with additional symptoms of flank pain, fever or chills, and nausea or vomiting. Urinalysis shows positive leukocyte esterase and elevated urinary WBCs.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ovarian torsion** - Prior ovarian torsion increases the risk of repeated torsion, which presents with a sudden onset of unilateral lower abdominal pain with nausea and vomiting. However, in the case of ovarian torsion, the patient's temperature and WBC count would not be elevated. Additionally, the urinary tract is not involved in ovarian torsion, so urinalysis results would be unremarkable.

**B - Acute cholecystitis** - The patient has many of the symptoms of acute cholecystitis, such as right upper quadrant abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, and fever. She also has several risk factors because she is female, overweight, around 40 years of age, and premenopausal. However, in the case of cholecystitis, the urinalysis would have shown negative leukocyte esterase and < 10 WBC/hpf, and she would not have costovertebral angle tenderness.

**C - Gastroenteritis** - Gastroenteritis presents with diarrhea, nausea and vomiting, and abdominal cramping. This patient does not have diarrhea, and her urinalysis would be normal in the case of gastroenteritis, making another diagnosis more likely.

**D - Urethritis** - This patient's urinalysis results, with positive leukocyte esterase and elevated WBCs, are consistent with urethritis. However, urethritis is limited to the urethra and does not present with fever, chills, flank pain, nausea, or vomiting.

**E - Acute appendicitis** - While this patient has fever and nausea, she does not present with symptoms typical of acute appendicitis such as periumbilical or epigastric pain that progressively radiates to the right lower quadrant of the abdomen. Additionally, although appendicitis may cause pyuria on urinalysis (due to inflammation around a ureter), it would not have a positive leukocyte esterase (sterile pyuria) and RBCs would be rare.

**F - Pelvic inflammatory disease** - Although this patient's sexual history puts her at risk of PID, the condition presents with bilateral lower abdominal pain, in contrast to this patient's unilateral flank pain. PID also presents with cervical motion tenderness on cervical exam, while this patient has a normal cervical exam.

