### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Administer hypertonic saline** - Hypertonic saline is indicated for severe hyponatremia with neurologic manifestations, such as this patient with altered mental status and hyporeflexia. This patient's hyponatremia is likely caused by SIADH from ectopic ADH (or an ADH-like substance) production from small cell lung cancer (SCLC). In severe cases, adding a loop diuretic (e.g., furosemide) should be considered (especially if urine osmolality > 2x the serum osmolality). If initial measures fail, vasopressin antagonists (e.g., vaptans or demeclocycline) may also be considered.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Order CT scan of the chest** - A CT scan of the chest could be useful for evaluating the lung mass seen on the chest x-ray, but it would not address the immediate clinical needs of this patient with altered mental status and significant hyponatremia.

**B - Administer furosemide** - Adding a loop diuretic, such as furosemide, may be considered for severe hyponatremia after initial management, which has not yet been initiated. Additionally, loop diuretics are generally most effective in the management of hyponatremia if the urine osmolality is greater than two times the serum osmolality (typically urine osmolality > 500 mOsmol/kg).

**C - Administer hydrocortisone** - Hydrocortisone would be the first-line treatment for an adrenal crisis. Patients with MS, as here, may be on long-term steroid therapy. A sudden discontinuation of glucocorticoids can precipitate an adrenal crisis, causing hyponatremia, low glucose levels, and impaired consciousness. However, long-term steroid therapy is unlikely in this patient since he has not had any MS flares in 10 years. He also lacks other typical symptoms of adrenal crisis such as fever, vomiting, diarrhea, hypotension, abdominal pain, and hyperkalemia.

**E - Begin fluid restriction** - Fluid restriction is used in patients with hyponatremia without severe symptoms. However, this patient has severe neurological symptoms, including altered mental status and hyporeflexia.

**F - Administer demeclocycline** - Demeclocycline can be used to treat hyponatremia. However, it takes several days to one week to decrease the responsiveness of the collecting tubule to ADH and subsequently increase water excretion. Adequate sodium repletion can be achieved by using another treatment with fewer side effects and lower costs.

**G - Administer conivaptan** - Conivaptan is used to treat severe hyponatremia if initial management fails, but initial treatment has not yet been initiated. Conivaptan may cause overly rapid correction of sodium in severely hyponatremic patients.

