### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Erythropoietin therapy** - Erythropoietin, an erythropoiesis-stimulating agent used to treat anemia in patients with chronic kidney disease, is the most likely etiology of this patient's new hypertension. Although the exact pathophysiology of hypertension related to erythropoietin is unknown, it is likely multifactorial and due to increased vascular sensitivity to adrenergic stimuli, decreased nitric oxide production, and RAAS activation. This patient had previously normal blood pressures and has no signs to suggest an alternate etiology for her new-onset hypertension. Her EPO dose and/or target Hb level should be reduced and she may require anti-hypertensive medication.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Calcitriol therapy** - Calcitriol is used to treat secondary hyperparathyroidism, a condition that can develop in patients with chronic kidney disease. Secondary hyperparathyroidism is associated with hypertension from increased intracellular calcium, which leads to vasoconstriction. This patient’s calcitriol use would reduce the secretion of parathyroid hormone, thereby decreasing intracellular calcium concentrations and decreasing the risk of hypertension.

**C - Autonomic neuropathy** - Diabetic autonomic neuropathy is characterized by damage to sympathetic nerves from long-standing hyperglycemia. It typically results in decreased systemic vascular resistance, leading to postural hypotension, rather than hypertension. Although this patient's diabetes puts her at risk for autonomic neuropathy, it would not result in hypertension.

**D - Hypervolemia** - Volume overload can result in increased cardiac output and elevated systemic vascular resistance, both of which may cause hypertension. This patient's ESRD puts her at increased risk of fluid overload. However, her examination is consistent with euvolemia (e.g., she has clear lungs, a normal respiratory rate, no peripheral edema), making volume overload an unlikely cause of her current hypertension.

**E - Hypoglycemia** - Severe hypoglycemia may trigger the release of epinephrine, which can cause tremor, tachycardia, and diaphoresis. Although this patient is at high risk of hypoglycemia due to ESRD and concurrent insulin use (insulin is cleared renally and therefore decreased renal function can lead to elevated levels of insulin in the blood), she does not complain of symptoms or exhibit any signs of hypoglycemia. Furthermore, hypoglycemia is not known to cause hypertension.

**F - Hypertensive nephrosclerosis** - Hypertensive nephrosclerosis is a cause (rather than a result) of ESRD in patients with chronic hypertension. This patient's ESRD is most likely due to her diabetes mellitus and her current hypertension is the result of a different mechanism.

**G - Renal artery stenosis** - Renal artery stenosis can cause both hypertension and chronic kidney disease. Although this patient has both hypertension and CKD, her previously normal blood pressures and lack of abdominal bruits make renal artery stenosis an unlikely cause of her current hypertension.

