### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - IgA nephropathy** - IgA nephropathy most commonly manifests during the second or third decade of life with recurrent episodes of gross hematuria, flank pain, low-grade fever, and/or nephritic syndrome, usually during or immediately following (within days) an upper respiratory tract infection. Between these episodes, patients typically have asymptomatic urinary abnormalities, such as microhematuria. The most likely etiology of these findings an increased number of defective circulating IgA antibodies, the synthesis of which is triggered by mucosal infections (e.g., pharyngitis). These IgA antibodies form immune complexes that deposit in the mesangium of the renal glomerulus, leading to glomerulonephritis (type III hypersensitivity reaction). A renal biopsy provides a definitive diagnosis but is usually only indicated if there are signs of severe or progressive disease (e.g., proteinuria > 0.5–1 g/24 h, hypertension, elevated creatinine levels).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Goodpasture syndrome** - Antiglomerular basement membrane (anti-GBM) disease (i.e., Goodpasture syndrome) most commonly affects young adult males and can manifest with nephritic-range proteinuria and hematuria. However, Goodpasture syndrome also affects the pulmonary capillary basement membrane (in most cases; due to autoantibodies against collagen type IV), leading to hemoptysis, cough, and dyspnea, none of which is seen here.

**B - Minimal change disease** - Minimal change disease (MCD) often occurs following a viral infection. However, MCD manifests with nephrotic-range proteinuria and edema, which is not seen here. Finally, MCD most commonly affects children < 6 years of age.

**D - Poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis** - Poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis (PSGN) can manifest with hypertension and gross hematuria following upper respiratory tract infection. PSGN is more common in children, however, and usually manifests 10–30 days after an acute infection. Furthermore, C3 complement levels are low in PSGN, whereas this patient's C3 complement levels are normal.

**E - Alport syndrome** - Alport syndrome most commonly affects males and manifests with intermittent episodes of gross hematuria. As the disease progresses, findings may include nephritic sediment on urinalysis and a decrease in kidney function (increased serum creatinine and urea nitrogen concentrations). However, in individuals affected by Alport syndrome, hematuria is almost always detected during infancy or childhood. In addition, a personal or family history of sensorineural hearing loss and/or ocular findings (e.g., lenticonus) is characteristic of Alport syndrome, which this patient does not have.

**F - Diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis** - Diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis (DPGN) can manifest with gross hematuria, elevated serum creatinine, and nephritic sediment. However, DPGN most commonly develops in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), for which this man does not have any features of SLE (e.g., rash, photosensitivity, or joint pain). Moreover, DPGN typically manifests with low serum C3 complement levels.

