### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Intermittent catheterization** - Overflow incontinence is caused by urinary retention, which can be a result of dysfunction of the bladder wall (e.g., underactive detrusor) or the sphincter (e.g., overactive urinary sphincter, benign prostatic hypertrophy). In a patient with diabetes mellitus, the most likely cause of urinary retention is an underactive bladder wall due to neuropathy of autonomic afferent nerve fibers, impairing the ability to sense bladder fullness and resulting in decreased parasympathetic outflow. Urinary retention can be treated with intermittent catheterization, behavioral changes (e.g., timed voiding, Valsalva maneuver to increase intravesical pressure), triggered voiding by stimulating sacral and lumbar dermatomes, or bethanechol, a muscarinic agonist that can stimulate detrusor contraction.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pelvic floor exercises** - Pelvic floor exercises can be used to treat underactive urethral sphincters (stress incontinence) and detrusor overactivity (urge incontinence). Increased post-void residual volume, which is seen here, would not be expected in a patient with an underactive bladder sphincter or an overactive bladder wall. Therefore, pelvic floor exercises would not be likely to alleviate this patient's urinary retention.

**C - Prazosin therapy** - Prazosin, which causes relaxation of the internal urethral sphincter via alpha-1 antagonism, is used to treat overflow incontinence due to an overactive sphincter or BPH. This patient has urinary retention and overflow incontinence, but the most likely cause is an underactive bladder wall due to diabetic neuropathy of the postganglionic sympathetic fibers that innervate the bladder wall rather than an overactive sphincter. Therefore, prazosin is unlikely to be effective in this patient.

**D - Pessary placement** - A vaginal pessary would elevate the bladder neck angle and compress the urethra against the pubic symphysis. Vaginal pessaries are used in the treatment of underactive urethral sphincters (stress incontinence). This patient has some predisposing factors for stress incontinence, including multiple vaginal deliveries (increases laxity of the pelvic floor) and diabetes (causes neuropathy of the pudendal nerve or the postganglionic sympathetic fibers that innervate the sphincter). However, stress incontinence would cause dribbling of urine when laughing or coughing. The use of a vaginal pessary might worsen the urinary retention in this patient.

**E - Duloxetine therapy** - Duloxetine, which is an SNRI, is used in the treatment of underactive urethral sphincters (stress incontinence) because increased noradrenergic and serotonergic activity in the sacral spinal cord can increase external urethral sphincter activity. This patient has some predisposing factors for stress incontinence, including multiple vaginal deliveries (increase laxity of the pelvic floor) and diabetes (causes neuropathy of the pudendal nerve or the postganglionic sympathetic fibers that innervate the sphincter). However, stress incontinence would cause dribbling of urine when laughing or coughing. Duloxetine therapy might worsen the urinary retention in this patient.

**F - Oxybutynin therapy** - Oxybutynin, which relaxes the detrusor muscle via M3 receptor antagonism, is used to treat detrusor overactivity (urge incontinence). Patients with urge incontinence have a sudden urge to urinate and are often unable to make it to the bathroom before leaking urine. An increased post-void residual urine volume (bladder retention) would not be expected in a patient with urge incontinence. In this patient with urinary retention due to detrusor underactivity, oxybutynin would most likely worsen their symptoms.

