### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Volume depletion** - This patient has likely developed AKI due to volume depletion secondary to loop diuretic use (e.g., furosemide), which is an important part of pharmacotherapy for decompensated congestive heart failure (CHF). This patient probably already had reduced renal blood flow due to systolic heart failure. Excess diuresis (e.g., with loop diuretics) with subsequent volume depletion further reduces renal blood flow, which stimulates the activation of RAAS. Aldosterone causes Na+ and water retention in an attempt to maintain GFR and systemic blood pressure, which in turn, also increases urea reabsorption (BUN:Cr ratio > 20:1). The increased Na+ and water retention causes elevated urine osmolarity. Because of this potential adverse effect on the kidney, it is important to monitor renal laboratory values in patients with CHF who are being treated with loop diuretics.

Image File: 1365-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d91f15745166.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Urinary tract infection** - UTIs with renal involvement can cause inflammation and necrosis of the renal papillae, resulting in intrarenal (intrinsic) AKI. In intrinsic AKI, the function of tubular cells is impaired, leading to elevated creatinine levels, but a decreased (not increased) BUN/Cr ratio (< 10:1) because of decreased urea reabsorption. In addition, sodium reabsorption and the ability to concentrate the urine would be impaired, causing a UNa > 30 mEq/L and Uosm < 300 mOsm/kg, respectively, which is inconsistent with this patient's urinalysis. Additionally, there are no signs of infection (e.g., dysuria, frequency, urgency).

**C - Bladder outlet obstruction** - Benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) is the most common cause of bladder outlet obstruction and postrenal AKI in elderly men. Although patients present with elevated creatinine, the function of the tubular system remains intact so the kidney's ability to concentrate urine and reabsorb sodium and urea are normal. Serum studies would show Uosm 300–500 mOsm/kg, UNa 10-30 mEq/L). and a normal BUN/Cr ratio (10–20:1). Although this patient has BPH, his laboratory values are inconsistent with postrenal AKI.

**D - Glomerulonephritis** - Glomerulonephritis can cause intrinsic AKI. Although patients present with elevated creatinine levels, the direct injury to the glomeruli results in proteinuria and/or hematuria, as well as impaired Na+ reabsorption (UNa > 30 mEq/L), hypotonic urine Uosm < 300 mOsm/kg, and impaired urea reabsorption (BUN/Cr ratio < 10:1), none of which are consistent with the findings in this patient.

**E - Renal tubular obstruction** - Renal tubular obstruction can be caused by multiple myeloma (MM) and can result in intrinsic AKI due to light chains obstructing the renal tubule and direct toxicity to renal tissue. Renal tubular dysfunction causes elevated creatinine levels, but a decreased BUN/Cr ratio (< 10:1) because of decreased urea reabsorption. In addition, sodium reabsorption and the ability to concentrate the urine would be impaired, causing a UNa > 30 mEq/L and Uosm < 300 mOsm/kg, respectively, which is inconsistent with this patient's urinalysis. This patient lacks typical findings of MM, such as proteinuria, bone pain, and anemia.

**F - Antibiotic use** - Amikacin and other aminoglycosides are nephrotoxic and can result in intrinsic AKI due to direct damage to the tubular system. Renal tubular dysfunction causes elevated creatinine levels, but a decreased BUN/Cr ratio (< 10:1) because of decreased urea reabsorption. In addition, sodium reabsorption and the ability to concentrate the urine would be impaired, causing a UNa > 30 mEq/L and Uosm < 300 mOsm/kg, respectively, which is inconsistent with this patient's urinalysis. Although this patient was treated with amikacin, his laboratory findings are inconsistent with intrinsic AKI.

