### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Standing for long periods of time** - This patient presents with increased excretion of proteins during the day and normal protein excretion at night (while he is in a recumbent position). Along with a normal renal function, this is highly suggestive of orthostatic proteinuria (postural proteinuria), a type of benign proteinuria. Orthostatic proteinuria is characterized by increased protein excretion only in the upright position. This condition typically occurs in overweight adolescents and resolves spontaneously without treatment.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Subepithelial immune complex depositions** - Subepithelial immune complex depositions are found in patients with poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis (PSGN). While PSGN can manifest with proteinuria, typically 10–30 days following an upper respiratory infection with group A beta-hemolytic streptococci, it usually manifests with findings of nephritic syndrome such as hypertension, hematuria, and edema.

**C - Increased production of low molecular weight proteins** - Increased production of low molecular weight proteins can lead to overflow proteinuria. It can be caused by a variety of conditions, including multiple myeloma, hemolysis, and rhabdomyolysis. However, this patient lacks other typical findings of these conditions (e.g., jaundice and episodes of red/dark urine in the case of hemolysis). Moreover, the conditions would not explain why this patient presents with different rates of protein excretion depending on the time of the day (he only has mild proteinuria in the morning).

**D - Loss of negative charge on the glomerular basement membrane** - Loss of negative charge on glomerular basement membrane suggests minimal change disease (MCD). While MCD can present with proteinuria, often precipitated by upper respiratory infections, it usually manifests with findings of nephrotic syndrome such as edema and hypoalbuminemia. Moreover, MCD would not explain why this patient has different rates of protein excretion depending on the time of the day (he only has mild proteinuria in the morning).

**E - Thickening of the glomerular basement membrane** - Nodules within glomeruli (Kimmelstiel-Wilson nodules) and thickening of the glomerular basement membrane can be seen in diabetic nephropathy. Early in the course of the disease, this complication of diabetes mellitus typically manifests with asymptomatic proteinuria (microalbuminuria). However, this patient has no history of diabetes mellitus and no glucosuria on urinalysis.

**F - Splitting of the glomerular basement membrane** - Splitting of the glomerular basement membrane suggests Alport syndrome. Alport syndrome usually affects males and causes sensorineural hearing loss and episodes of proteinuria, which are often precipitated by upper respiratory infections. However, almost all patients with Alport syndrome present with gross hematuria and a progressive decrease in kidney function (elevated BUN and serum creatinine). Furthermore, symptom onset is typically in infancy and affected individuals often have a personal or family history of ocular findings (e.g., lenticonus). This patient's mild hearing loss could be a result of repetitive loud noises at the shooting range without using appropriate hearing protection.

