### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Elevated serum levels of nitrogenous waste** - Uremia is the most likely cause of this patient's findings given the history of CKD and missed dialysis sessions. Uremic pericarditis does not present with the classic diffuse ST-elevations seen on ECG as in other types of pericarditis. Uremic pericarditis is an indication for urgent hemodialysis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Low serum levels of thyroid hormone** - Although rare, severe hypothyroidism can cause acute pericarditis. This patient lacks any symptoms of hypothyroidism (e.g., fatigue, cold intolerance, weight gain, myxedema), making this diagnosis unlikely.

**B - Adverse effect of medication** - Certain medications can cause pericarditis, including methotrexate (also used to treat SLE), doxorubicin, hydralazine, or isoniazid. This patient takes azathioprine, an immunosuppressant which is not known to cause pericarditis and is unlikely to explain her presentation.

**C - Serositis from an immunologic reaction** - Serositis of the pericardium is one of the most common cardiac manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and should always be considered in a patient with SLE presenting with chest pain. Unlike in this patient, SLE pericarditis usually presents with ECG changes (i.e., diffuse ST-elevations and PR-segment depression in all leads except aVR) due to involvement of the epicardium. Additionally, her normal anti-DNA antibodies do not suggest an active SLE flare and thus, it would be unlikely to explain her current presentation.

Image File: 1376-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_508c11f38545c.jpg

**D - Infarction of myocardial segment** - Myocardial infarction (MI) may cause pericarditis via two mechanisms. Acutely, it may occur within 24 to 72 hours of a transmural MI as benign and self-limited inflammation of the pericardium. A more delayed and serious response, Dressler syndrome (postmyocardial infarction syndrome), can occur between 1 week to 3 months after a MI, and is thought to be secondary to immune complex formation within the pericardium. In both cases, patients may present with low-grade fever and chest pain, and often ECG changes and elevated cardiac enzymes are present. This patient's history of MI is too remote and she has no evidence for current cardiac ischemia.

**E - Purulent exudate in the pericardial space** - Purulent pericarditis refers to localized infection of the pericardial space (usually bacterial or fungal) and is characterized by purulent exudate. It is rare, and usually associated with recent thoracic surgery, malignancy, immune suppression, or pre-existing pericardial disease. Patients typically present with very high fever and ECG changes (classically, diffuse ST-elevations and PR-segment depression), which are absent in this patient.

