### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Intramuscular ceftriaxone** - A single dose of intramuscular ceftriaxone is used to treat urethritis due to suspected or documented Neisseria gonorrhoeae. This regimen is safe to use during pregnancy. Combination treatment of gonococcal infection with oral azithromycin is no longer recommended because of increasing rates of drug resistance. Sexual partners should be treated simultaneously to avoid reinfection. Risk factors for urethritis seen in this patient are unprotected sexual intercourse and multiple sexual partners.

Nucleic acid amplification testing (NAAT) for C. trachomatis is warranted to assess for coinfection, and screening for HIV infection should be performed. NAAT for N. gonorrhea should be done 3 months after completion of therapy because of the risk of reinfection.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral levofloxacin** - Oral levofloxacin is a second-line treatment option for confirmed infection with Chlamydia trachomatis. Genitourinary chlamydia infection can manifest with dysuria and urethral discharge in a sexually active patient, as seen here. However, this patient's urinalysis indicates infection with Neisseria gonorrhoeae, for which levofloxacin is not a recommended treatment. Moreover, fluoroquinolones are contraindicated in pregnancy due to possible damage to the fetal cartilage.

**B - Intramuscular penicillin G** - Intramuscular penicillin G is the first-line treatment for infection with Treponema pallidum, which causes syphilis. However, it is not recommended for the empiric treatment of urethritis because of gonococcal antibiotic resistance. Primary syphilis typically manifests with nontender inguinal lymphadenopathy and a chancre, a painless, genital ulcer with indurated borders. Thick, purulent urethral discharge, which this patient presents with, is not typically seen.

**C - Oral cefixime and oral doxycycline** - Oral cefixime and doxycycline in a single dose is an alternative regimen for empiric treatment of urethritis. However, this combination is not a first-line treatment because the drugs are lower efficacy and face increasing gonococcal antimicrobial resistance. Moreover, doxycycline is contraindicated during pregnancy because it has a harmful impact on fetal skeletal development.

**D - Oral erythromycin** - Oral erythromycin is a second-line treatment option for confirmed infection with Chlamydia trachomatis. Genitourinary chlamydia infection can manifest with dysuria and urethral discharge in a sexually active patient, as seen here. However, this patient's urinalysis indicates infection with Neisseria gonorrhoeae, for which erythromycin is not a recommended treatment. Moreover, studies have reported cardiovascular and urinary malformations after exposure to erythromycin in pregnancy.

**E - Oral azithromycin** - Oral azithromycin was formerly used to treat Neisseria gonorrhoeae infection. However, this therapy is no longer recommended because of increasing rates of drug resistance. Oral azithromycin is a first-line treatment option for confirmed chlamydial urethritis.

