### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Discuss PSA assessment with patient** - Prostate-specific antigen measurement may be considered as part of the screening process for prostate cancer, a common malignancy that is often asymptomatic in the initial stages. Current screening guidelines for prostate-specific antigen testing are controversial. The use of PSA as a screening marker is constantly questioned because of potential overdiagnosis, overtreatment, and associated complications such as negative psychological effects, erectile dysfunction, or urine incontinence. The US Preventive Services Task Force and the American Academy of Family Physicians recommend against any routine PSA-based screening for prostate cancer; they recommend that decisions about PSA assessment in men aged 55–69 years who inquire about screening be made based on patient preference after being informed of the potential risks and benefits. The American Urological Association recommends PSA-testing on a case-by-case basis in men aged 55–69 years after shared decision-making based on individual preferences. PSA test is not recommended in men < 40 years of age or men aged 40–54 years who are at average risk. This patient is 60 years old and he has a family history of prostate cancer in a first-degree relative; a discussion about PSA screening would be warranted. Following the discussion, PSA levels should only be obtained if the patient expresses that he wants to proceed with the screening test.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform prostate biopsy** - Prostate biopsy is an invasive procedure that is used for diagnosing prostate cancer. Indications for prostate biopsy include asymmetric enlargement, nodules, and induration of the prostate detected on DRE. High PSA levels should also prompt a prostate biopsy. Given that this patient has symmetric enlargement of the prostate with no nodules or induration, a prostate biopsy is not warranted at this time.

**B - Obtain urine sample for cytology** - Urine cytology can be used in the workup for urothelial cancer. While this patient has risk factors for bladder cancer (works at a rubber factory, family history of bladder cancer, smokes cigarettes), urine cytology is not used for routine screening of bladder cancer because of its low sensitivity.

**C - Recommend colonoscopy** - The US Preventative Services Task Force recommends screening for colorectal cancer in all asymptomatic adults between 45 and 75 years of age who have an average risk (e.g., no inflammatory bowel disease, adenomatous polyps, or family history of an inherited cancer syndrome). The previously recommended age to start screening was 50 years. Colonoscopy every 10 years is an appropriate strategy. Because this patient had his last colonoscopy 5 years ago, which was normal, and lacks symptoms suggestive of colorectal cancer (e.g., weight loss, hematochezia), a colonoscopy is not indicated at this time.

**E - Obtain low-dose CT scan of the chest** - Low-dose CT imaging of the chest is recommended by the USPSTF as a screening test for lung cancer in patients 50–80 years of age with a history of smoking (≥ 20 pack years) who still smoke or who have stopped in the past 15 years. Although this patient is 60 years old, he has a 12 pack year history. A low-dose CT scan would therefore not be indicated at this time.

**F - Administer pneumococcal conjugate vaccination** - The pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) is recommended for immunocompetent individuals ≥ 65 years of age and should only be administered following discussion and shared decision making with the patient. PCV13 should also be administered to all patients ≥ 19 years of age with certain medical conditions (e.g., immunosuppression, CSF leaks, chronic renal failure, asplenia, cochlear implants) who have never received the vaccine before. This patient is 60 years old with no current serious illnesses and, therefore, does not require the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine at this time. However, the pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV23) is indicated in this patient because of his history of smoking.

**G - Perform cystoscopy** - Cystoscopy is a diagnostic procedure for bladder cancer. Although this patient has risk factors for bladder cancer (works at a rubber factory, family history of bladder cancer, smokes cigarettes), a cystoscopy would only be indicated for the evaluation of gross hematuria or microscopic hematuria in patients > 35 years of age.

**H - Obtain CT urography** - CT urography is an imaging study that is used in the workup of gross hematuria or microscopic hematuria in patients > 35 years for the diagnosis of bladder cancer. Although this patient has risk factors for bladder cancer (works at a rubber factory, family history of bladder cancer, smokes cigarettes), CT urography would not be warranted at this time.

**I - Obtain renal ultrasound** - Renal ultrasound is used in the workup of kidney disease and urinary tract obstruction. This patient does not have symptoms (urinary changes, costovertebral tenderness, fever) indicating a renal pathology.

