### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Acute tubulointerstitial nephritis** - The onset of this patient's signs and symptoms (eosinophiluria, gross hematuria, flank pain, and rash) six months after starting treatment with ibuprofen suggests allergic interstitial nephritis, a form of acute tubulointerstitial nephritis. This condition is typically caused by a hypersensitivity reaction to drugs, especially NSAIDs, antibiotics, PPIs, and diuretics. The onset of symptoms is variable (commonly 2–3 months following the exposure) and usually does not depend on the drug dose. First step in management of this patient should be discontinuation of ibuprofen and administration of IV fluids.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Acute pyelonephritis** - While acute pyelonephritis can also present with fever, flank pain, and, in rare cases, eosinophiluria, this patient's use of an NSAID and the presence of a rash suggest a different diagnosis.

**C - Acute glomerulonephritis** - Glomerulonephritis is characterized by injury and inflammation of the glomeruli that can be caused by various conditions. Patients with acute glomerulonephritis commonly present with nephritic syndrome or nephrotic syndrome. This patient's clinical and laboratory findings are typical for a hypersensitivity reaction which is caused by ibuprofen.

**D - Crystal-induced acute kidney injury** - Drugs with low urine solubility (e.g., acyclovir, indinavir, ciprofloxacin, and methotrexate) precipitate within the renal tubules and can thus cause tubular obstruction leading to crystal-induced acute kidney injury (AKI). Unlike this patient, individuals with crystal-induced AKI are usually asymptomatic. In many cases, only elevation of serum creatinine leads to detection of the kidney injury.

**E - Renal cell carcinoma** - Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is the most common cause of renal malignancy in adults and characteristically presents with painless gross hematuria. Although this patient's age and positive smoking history put him at increased risk for RCC, the condition would not explain this patient's eosinophiluria and rash.

**F - Henoch–Schönlein purpura** - Henoch-Schönlein purpura (HSP) is a type of small vessel vasculitis that presents with a skin rash with palpable purpura in almost all patients. However, the condition most commonly occurs in children (with 90 % of the cases reported in children < 10 years old) and about half of individuals with HSP present with features of nephritic syndrome (e.g., edema, oliguria and hypertension) that this patient does not have.

**G - Acute tubular necrosis** - Acute tubular necrosis (ATN) is either caused by ischemia/hypoxia (e.g. due to hypotension) or nephrotoxicity (e.g., due to certain drugs, including NSAIDs). ATN usually presents with clinical features of acute kidney injury (1. oliguric or anuric phase, 2. polyuric phase, 3. recovery phase). It would not explain the patient's rash and fever.

