### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Indomethacin therapy** - Indomethacin decreases diuresis in patients with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (DI) by inhibiting the synthesis of renal prostaglandins, which physiologically inhibit the action of ADH on the collecting ducts. This male newborn has hereditary nephrogenic DI, most commonly caused by an X-linked mutation in the vasopressin V2 receptor gene (AVPR2), which results in the failure of principal cells to respond to vasopressin (ADH). Females with a heterozygous mutation are typically asymptomatic because of the presence of a functional gene and lyonization of the mutated gene. However, they may develop polyuria during pregnancy, as seen with this neonate's mother, because of increased clearance of vasopressin by placental vasopressinase. In contrast, males with the mutation present with severe symptoms soon after birth.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - High-protein diet** - A high-protein diet is contraindicated in patients with diabetes insipidus because it increases renal urea excretion, which causes solute diuresis and worsens polyuria. Rather, protein restriction (< 1 g/day) is often advised for patients with DI.

**B - High-sodium diet** - Excessive sodium intake (e.g., a high-sodium diet) is contraindicated in patients with diabetes insipidus (DI) because it causes natriuresis and worsens polyuria (i.e., solute diuresis). Rather, sodium restriction (≤ 100 mEq/day) is often advised for patients with DI.

**C - Demeclocycline therapy** - Demeclocycline acts as a vasopressin (ADH) antagonist that induces nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (DI), worsens diuresis, and is, therefore, contraindicated in this patient with DI. Instead, demeclocycline can be used to treat syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion (SIADH), a disorder that, contrary to this patient's presentation, manifests with decreased serum osmolality (due to free water retention) and increased urine osmolality.

**D - Desmopressin therapy** - Desmopressin, a vasopressin (ADH) analog, is used to treat central diabetes insipidus (DI), which can manifest with weight loss, features of dehydration, and decreased urine osmolality, all of which are seen here. However, in central DI, urine osmolality would increase following the administration of a vasopressin analog. Instead, this patient has nephrogenic DI (i.e., renal resistance to vasopressin), as evidenced by the failed desmopressin trial (i.e., failure of urine osmolality to increase following the administration of desmopressin). Desmopressin has, therefore, already been proven ineffective.

