### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Bladder outlet obstruction** - This patient's bilateral flank pain is likely due to bladder outlet obstruction. In adult men, bladder outlet obstruction is most commonly caused by benign prostatic hyperplasia, features of which include polyuria (as seen in this patient), as well as hesitancy and incomplete voiding. When the bladder is unable to empty sufficiently because of an outflow obstruction, high intravesical pressures can lead to vesicoureteral reflux. The backup of urine causes hydronephrosis, in which the renal pelvis and calyces become distended with urine, causing compression of the renal cortex and medulla and manifesting with bilateral flank pain and tenderness. Ultrasonographic findings of hydronephrosis include hypoechoic dilatation of the renal pelvis and calyces, as seen here.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Short intramural ureter segment** - A short intramural ureter segment (ureter segment located within the bladder wall) is a congenital malformation that leads to primary vesicoureteral reflux because the vesicoureteral valves may fail to close properly during micturition. A short intramural ureter segment can cause the hydronephrosis seen on this patient's ultrasound. However, it would only cause unilateral symptoms, and would not explain this patient's bilateral flank pain or polyuria.

**C - Posterior urethral valves** - Posterior urethral valves is a congenital malformation that leads to vesicoureteral reflux in newborn males. Posterior urethral valves can present with symptoms of bladder outlet obstruction, bilateral involvement (e.g., bilateral flank pain), and similar findings on ultrasonography of the kidney. However, the condition usually manifests with recurrent urinary tract infections in early childhood.

**D - Chronic inflammation of renal interstitium** - Inflammation of the renal interstitium occurs in pyelonephritis, most commonly due to ascending urinary tract infection (UTI). UTI can manifest with polyuria, and pyelonephritis can cause (typically unilateral) flank pain and costovertebral angle tenderness. This patient has bilateral flank pain and lacks other features of pyelonephritis such as fever and dysuria. Furthermore, ultrasonographic findings of chronic pyelonephritis, such as blunted renal calyces due to medullary scarring, are not seen here.

**E - Formation of renal parenchymal cysts** - Renal parenchymal cysts occur in polycystic kidney disease. Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease manifests in adulthood and can cause bilateral flank pain and polyuria. However, ultrasound in polycystic kidney disease would show bilaterally enlarged kidneys with cysts of varying sizes that appear as anechoic masses, as opposed to the hydronephrosis seen in this patient.

