### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Allergic interstitial nephritis** - Allergic interstitial nephritis is a form of acute tubulointerstitial nephritis that is typically caused by a hypersensitivity reaction to drugs, including antibiotics. The onset of symptoms is variable (1 week to 9 months, although most commonly 2–3 months following exposure) and usually does not depend on the drug dose. Urine microscopy would show eosinophiluria. The first step in management of this patient should be discontinuation of penicillin (if she is still taking it) and administration of IV fluids.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Henoch-Schönlein purpura** - Henoch-Schönlein purpura is a type of small vessel vasculitis that typically presents with hematuria, exanthem with palpable purpura, and abdominal pain. HSP most commonly occurs in children (90% of cases in children < 10 years). Also, about half of individuals with HSP present with features of nephritic syndrome (e.g., edema, oliguria and hypertension), which this patient lacks.

**C - Pyelonephritis** - Pyelonephritis can present with acute flank pain, hematuria, and myalgia. However, this patient lacks other typical features of pyelonephritis, including fever, dysuria, costovertebral angle tenderness, and bacteriuria on urinalysis. In addition, her diffuse maculopapular rash and history of recent antibiotic use make a different diagnosis more likely.

**D - Crystal-induced acute kidney injury** - Drugs with low urine solubility (e.g., acyclovir, indinavir, ciprofloxacin, and methotrexate) precipitate within the renal tubules and may cause tubular obstruction, leading to crystal-induced acute kidney injury. Crystal-induced AKI is often detected through increased creatinine levels, and in some cases, may present with hematuria and flank pain. However, most individuals with crystal-induced AKI are asymptomatic. Also, this patient has no history of taking drugs associated with crystal-induced AKI.

**E - Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis** - While eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis causes glomerulonephritis that results in hematuria and increased creatinine, the most common symptoms are severe allergic asthma attacks and a rash with nodules and palpable purpura, which are absent in this patient.

**F - Acute tubular necrosis** - Acute tubular necrosis is caused by either an ischemic or toxic insult. The presentation of patients with ATN can vary widely, although most have a history of nephrotoxic drug use (i.e., aminoglycosides or sulfonamide antibiotics). Penicillin antibiotics, which she presumably took, are not associated with ATN. Finally, hematuria and a rash are inconsistent with this diagnosis and certain findings of ATN, such as muddy brown granular epithelial cell casts on urinalysis are missing.

**G - Poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis** - Poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis can present with gross hematuria, flank pain, and myalgia following an episode of acute tonsillitis or skin infection. However, PSGN usually manifests 10–30 days following acute infection. Also, other features of PSGN, such as hypertension and edema, are absent in this patient. Finally, PSGN is most common in young children (between 3–12 years of age) and the elderly (> 60 years of age).

**H - Thin basement membrane disease** - Although thin basement membrane disease is typically an asymptomatic condition, episodes of gross hematuria, proteinuria, and flank pain can occur after an upper respiratory infection. The presence of sterile pyuria and recent antibiotic use in this patient points to a different diagnosis.

