### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Contrast administration** - The diagnosis of acute diverticulitis is usually confirmed using contrast-enhanced CT imaging, which allows accurate visualization of the bowel wall and potential complications (e.g., abscess, fistula, perforation). Patients with long-standing diabetes and hypertension are at risk of chronic kidney disease (likely present in this patient with proteinuria), which is a major risk factor for contrast-induced nephropathy. Contrast-induced nephropathy typically manifests with worsening kidney function 3–5 days after the CT scan.

The course is usually mild and creatinine levels typically return to baseline within 1 week. Always evaluate kidney function before administering a contrast agent. In patients at risk of contrast nephropathy, use the lowest effective dose of contrast medium, and prior to administering the contrast, discontinue nephrotoxic substances and ensure adequate hydration.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Gastrointestinal blood loss** - Gastrointestinal bleeding, which can occur as a complication of diverticulitis, can lead to prerenal acute kidney injury due to volume depletion and renal hypoperfusion. However, this patient shows no signs of chronic blood loss (e.g., Hb levels within normal limits) or acute, active bleeding (hematochezia, abdominal guarding, tachycardia).

**B - Adverse drug reaction** - Certain drugs (e.g., sulfonamide antibiotics, penicillins, NSAIDs) are nephrotoxic and can cause a hypersensitivity reaction resulting in allergic interstitial nephritis within days to weeks of drug intake. However, this condition is typically accompanied by hematuria, flank pain, fever, rash, and/or eosinophilia, which are not seen here. NSAIDs also cause renal vasoconstriction with subsequent renal hypoperfusion, which can result in analgesic nephropathy. This is, however, associated with a history of prolonged, excessive NSAID use, which this patient does not have.

**C - Ureteral obstruction** - Although obstruction of the ureters (e.g., due to nephrolithiasis) can lead to postrenal acute kidney injury causing elevated creatinine levels and oliguria, this patient does not have signs of ureteral obstruction (e.g., colicky abdominal pain, hematuria). Moreover, this patient's urinalysis does not show hematuria or pyuria, which would be expected in nephrolithiasis.

**D - Dehydration** - Dehydration can result in renal hypoperfusion, a common cause of prerenal acute kidney injury. Although this patient has been on bowel rest for the past 3 days, he does not have any signs of dehydration (dry oral mucosa, hypotension, tachycardia).

**F - Chronic hyperglycemia** - Longstanding diabetes mellitus is associated with an increased risk of diabetic nephropathy. The clinical course is characterized by an early, asymptomatic stage with progressively worsening microalbuminuria, followed by a late stage of nephrotic syndrome, that eventually progresses to end-stage renal disease. Although this patient's urinalysis revealed significant proteinuria and diabetic nephropathy is a risk factor for this patient's current condition, his rise in creatinine was acute, making chronic hyperglycemia an unlikely cause.

**G - Chronic hypertension** - Hypertensive nephropathy can occur secondary to chronic hypertension. It is generally asymptomatic with microalbuminuria and microhematuria. Nephrosclerosis with macroalbuminuria and progressive renal failure may occur in later progression of the disease. This patient's kidney function deteriorated within 3 days making this an unlikely underlying cause.

