### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Elevated levels of eosinophils in urine** - Eosinophiluria is a typical finding in patients with allergic interstitial nephritis, a form of acute tubulointerstitial nephritis. This condition is typically caused by a hypersensitivity reaction to drugs, especially PPIs, NSAIDs, antibiotics, and diuretics. The onset of symptoms is variable (commonly 2–3 months following the exposure) and usually does not depend on the drug dose. The first step in management of this patient should be discontinuation of PPIs and administration of IV fluids.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Dermal IgA deposition on skin biopsy** - Dermal IgA deposition on skin biopsy is a typical finding in patients with Henoch-Schönlein purpura (HSP), a type of small vessel vasculitis that presents with a skin rash with palpable purpura in almost all patients. However, most cases (90%) occur in children < 10 years old, and about half of individuals with HSP present with features of nephritic syndrome (e.g., edema, oliguria and hypertension), which this patient does not have.

**C - Positive nitrites on dipstick test** - Positive nitrites on dipstick test are a typical finding in patients with urinary tract infections, which in combination with flank pain, hematuria, and myalgia, could indicate pyelonephritis. However, this patient lacks other typical features of pyelonephritis including fever, dysuria, and costovertebral angle tenderness. Moreover, his other findings, including diffuse maculopapular rash in conjunction with a history of taking PPIs, make a different finding more likely.

**D - Papillary calcifications on CT imaging** - Papillary calcifications on CT imaging are a typical finding in patients with analgesic nephropathy. This patient has a history of taking acetaminophen, which is associated with analgesic nephropathy. He also presents with some clinical findings of analgesic nephropathy including hematuria and elevated creatinine levels. However, renal sonography of patients with analgesic nephropathy would typically show shrunken kidneys and papillary calcifications, which is not the case here. Moreover, his other findings, including flank pain and diffuse maculopapular rash in conjunction with a history of taking PPIs, make a different finding more likely.

**E - Urinary crystals on brightfield microscopy** - Urinary crystals on brightfield microscopy are a typical finding in patients with crystal-induced acute kidney injury (AKI). Drugs with low urine solubility (e.g., acyclovir, indinavir, ciprofloxacin, and methotrexate) precipitate in the renal tubules and can thus cause tubular obstruction leading to crystal-induced AKI. Crystal-induced AKI is often detected by increased creatinine levels and some cases may present with hematuria and flank pain, as seen in this patient. However, most individuals with crystal-induced AKI are asymptomatic and this patient lacks a history of taking drugs associated with the condition.

**F - Mesangial IgA deposits on renal biopsy** - Mesangial IgA deposits on renal biopsy are a characteristic finding in patients with IgA nephropathy (Berger's disease). This patient has some features of IgA nephropathy, including gross hematuria and flank pain. However, IgA nephropathy mostly occurs in patients at 20–30 years of age and is usually triggered by upper respiratory tract or gastrointestinal infections. Moreover, this patient lacks other typical findings of IgA nephropathy, such as low-grade fever and hypertension.

**G - Crescent-shape extracapillary cell proliferation** - Crescent-shape extracapillary cell proliferation is a typical finding in patients with rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (RPGN). This patient has some features of RPGN, including gross hematuria, flank pain and a marked increase in creatinine (often > 3 mg/dL). However, RPGN typically presents with elevated inflammatory markers (e.g., leukocytosis) and decreased urine output or anuria, which are not seen in this patient.

