### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Pulmonary function testing** - Patients presenting with a chronic cough (duration > 3 months) are treated empirically for the most common underlying conditions, including upper airway cough syndrome, GERD, and asthma. Since this patient's cough persisted despite treatment with diphenhydramine and he has no symptoms suggestive of GERD, cough-variant asthma is the most likely diagnosis. PFT is the preferred first step in management to detect obstructive lung disease.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Azithromycin therapy** - Azithromycin therapy in a patient with a history of cough can be indicated to treat suspected pneumonia. While a dry, nonproductive cough can occur in cases of atypical pneumonia, this diagnosis is unlikely considering the patient's age, absence of extrapulmonary symptoms (e.g., fever, fatigue, myalgias), and normal chest x-ray.

**C - Omeprazole therapy** - Omeprazole therapy in a patient with a persistent cough is indicated if GERD is suspected. While the connection is not fully understood, chronic cough in individuals with GERD is thought to be caused by a protective reflex following aspiration of gastric acid into the respiratory tract. Since GERD is unlikely to present only with a cough and no other typical features (e.g., retrosternal burning pain, regurgitation), this diagnosis is unlikely and another cause should first be considered.

**D - Tuberculin skin test** - A tuberculin skin test is used to screen at-risk individuals for asymptomatic latent tuberculosis. Risk factors for contracting tuberculosis include immunosuppression (e.g., HIV), malnutrition, living in prisons or homeless shelters, and being either native to or having traveled in an endemic area (e.g., India). This patient has no risk factors for contracting a tuberculosis infection.

Image File: 1392-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57dbee11547bc.jpg

**E - Oral corticosteroid therapy** - Oral corticosteroids are reserved for managing severe, treatment-refractory asthma. This patient has no symptoms of severe asthma (e.g., severe dyspnea, hypoxemia) or a even an established diagnosis.

**F - CT scan of the chest** - CT scans of the chest in a patient with a history of cough are indicated to detect malignancies, lung consolidations (e.g., in tuberculosis), bronchiectasis, and pneumonia. Since this patient has no signs of infection or symptoms suggestive of malignancy (e.g., hemoptysis) and his chest x-ray shows no abnormalities, a CT scan is not indicated.

