### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Mandibular advancement device** - The mandibular advancement device (MAD) is the most commonly recommended oral appliance for OSA patients who are unable to tolerate CPAP therapy. MADs are often indicated for mild to moderate disease, which this patient has, and work by maintaining an anterior-inferior mandibular advancement to prevent airway collapse during sleep.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty** - Uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (UPPP) is the most common surgery performed on OSA patients; it is most effective when patients have lesions that block the airway or have craniofacial abnormalities. This patient has mild OSA and has no evidence of an obstructive airway lesion. For patients with mild to moderate OSA, surgery is a secondary or an adjunctive therapy; it is not a first-line treatment.

**B - Tracheostomy** - A tracheostomy is a definitive treatment option in OSA patients; it works by bypassing the obstructed upper airway. Tracheostomy should be considered if there is clinical urgency or in severe OSA that is refractory to other treatment modalities. It is not indicated in mild to moderate cases.

**C - Hypoglossal nerve stimulation** - Hypoglossal nerve stimulation (HNS) is an increasingly widespread treatment for patients with moderate to severe OSA, who fail medical treatment, and/or who have a body mass index < 32 kg/m2. This patient does not meet any of these requirements, so HNS treatment is not appropriate at this time.

**E - Atomoxetine therapy** - Atomoxetine, which has noradrenergic effects that reduce upper airway collapsibility, has been proposed as a potential therapy for OSA. However, no pharmacological agent has yet been proven to be effective against OSA, so atomoxetine therapy would not be the most appropriate initial treatment.

