### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease** - Smoking is responsible for over 90% of cases of COPD, which would result in decreased FEV1/FVC, decreased FEV1, and increased TLC (due to increased lung compliance). This patient is almost cachectic, with progressively worsening dyspnea, an end-expiratory wheeze, and an occasional dry cough, which most likely indicates emphysema-predominant COPD. In emphysema, destruction of the alveoli results in a decreased surface area for air exchange; DLCO levels are therefore decreased.

The patient should be advised to stop smoking. He has an FEV1 between 50 and 80% of the predicted value, which means he has moderate COPD (GOLD class 2). He should therefore be treated with inhaled long-acting beta-2 agonists such as salmeterol or formoterol. Patients with COPD should also receive the pneumococcal vaccine every 5–6 years and the influenza vaccine annually.

Image File: 1395-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fae83960413a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Interstitial lung disease** - Interstitial lung disease (ILD) results in progressively worsening shortness of breath, a dry cough, decreased FEV1 and decreased DLCO. Smoking is also a risk factor for ILD and weight loss can occur occasionally. However, ILD results in restrictive lung disease; the TLC would therefore be decreased, and FEV1/FVC would be normal or increased. Moreover, patients with ILD typically have bibasilar inspiratory crackles on auscultation rather than wheezing.

**B - Hypersensitivity pneumonitis** - Subacute hypersensitivity pneumonitis can result in dyspnea that worsens over the course of 2 months, a dry cough, weight loss, decreased FEV1 and decreased DLCO. However, subacute hypersensitivity pneumonitis typically results in restrictive (or mixed restrictive/obstructive) lung disease; forced vital capacity would therefore be reduced. Moreover, patients with hypersensitivity pneumonitis typically have bibasilar inspiratory crackles on auscultation rather than wheezing and a history of occupational exposure to an allergen (e.g., animal proteins, mold).

**D - Bronchiectasis** - Bronchiectasis can result in progressively worsening dyspnea, cough, wheezing, weight loss, and features of obstructive lung disease (e.g., ↓ FEV1:FVC ratio). However, patients with bronchiectasis would have a productive cough with thick, foul-smelling sputum (due to anaerobic infection) and coarse inspiratory crackles on auscultation.

**E - Bronchial asthma** - Bronchial asthma would result in breathlessness, cough, wheezing, decreased FEV1, and decreased FEV1/FVC. The TLC may also be increased in some patients. However, bronchial asthma is typically characterized by acute exacerbations, in contrast to this patient's 2 months of progressive dyspnea. Moreover, weight loss would not be expected, and DLCO would be normal or mildly increased.

