### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Bag-mask ventilation with 100% oxygen** - Bag-mask ventilation with 100% oxygen is indicated in patients with epiglottitis who are experiencing partial airway obstruction, which typically manifests with features of acute respiratory distress (e.g., tachypnea, inspiratory stridor, and accessory muscle breathing). It provides respiratory support, prevents exhaustion, allows additional time to identify the cause of respiratory distress, and can serve as a bridge to endotracheal intubation. Epiglottis historically manifested as a life-threatening illness in children but since the introduction of the Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) vaccine, this disease is predominantly seen in adults, particularly those who are overweight (BMI > 25), elderly, or have a history of diabetes mellitus, or a preceding upper respiratory infection.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administration of humidified air** - Administration of humidified air is recommended for patients with features of airway obstruction with minimal to mild signs of respiratory distress. Humidified air prevents secretions from drying in the airway and further blocking the airflow. Patients with signs of moderate to severe respiratory distress (e.g., inspiratory stridor and accessory muscle breathing) require another intervention first. Humidified air is also part of the initial management of croup, which manifests in young children with hoarseness, barking cough, and inspiratory stridor; drooling, odynophagia, and severe respiratory distress would not be expected.

**B - Administration of intravenous ceftriaxone** - Intravenous ceftriaxone is used to treat acute epiglottitis, which is usually caused by Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) or gram-positive cocci (e.g., Streptococcus pyogenes or Streptococcus pneumonia). However, blood cultures should be obtained before administering antibiotics to guide future antibiotic regimens. Moreover, this patient's tachypnea, inspiratory stridor, and drooling raise concern for impending airway obstruction, which must be addressed urgently to prevent respiratory collapse.

**C - X-ray of the lateral neck** - An x-ray of the lateral neck can be obtained in a stable patient to confirm the diagnosis of epiglottitis, which manifests as a thumbprint sign due to subglottic narrowing. However, this patient's acute respiratory distress requires emergency intervention. Difficult airway management guidelines recommend temporizing measures to prevent the patient's respiratory distress from worsening, ensure adequate oxygenation, and optimize patient oxygenation before more invasive airway management is required.

Image File: 1396-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60b8ddcf4235c.jpg

**E - Endotracheal intubation** - Endotracheal intubation is indicated in patients with acute respiratory failure who cannot maintain adequate oxygenation or in cases of impending complete airway obstruction (e.g., no air movement on respiratory examination). While this patient may eventually require endotracheal intubation, his ability to move air on cardiopulmonary examination and normal oxygen saturation make him a candidate for a less invasive initial intervention. Furthermore, endotracheal intubation in patients with acute epiglottitis should be performed by a physician who is experienced in the management of difficult airways (e.g., anesthesiologist or otolaryngologist) with a video laryngoscope and other adjuncts present. The trauma from failed intubation attempts increases airway inflammation, which can cause complete occlusion of the airway and asphyxiation.

