### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Pleural empyema** - The presence of a dense fluid collection in the pleural space, split pleura sign and fever suggests the diagnosis of a pleural empyema. If present, loculations on CT are also associated with a diagnosis of pleural empyema. Empyemas most often result from the progression of an uncomplicated (sterile) parapneumonic effusion that becomes complicated (infected) and forms frank pus, but can also occur following a traumatic hemothorax, as in this patient. Treatment for empyemas involve chest tube placement to drain the empyema fluid and systemic antibiotic treatment. This may be followed by thorascopic debridement if the empyema does not resolve after chest tube drainage.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Viral pleurisy** - Viral pleurisy can cause a transudative pleural effusion but is an unlikely diagnosis given that there is no report of pleuritic chest pain. There is also no history of recent upper respiratory symptoms (other than a cough) or fever prior to presentation that makes this etiology likely. The history of blunt trauma to the chest prior to presentation also suggests a different diagnosis.

**B - Lung abscess** - While decreased breath sounds and presence of a fever make a lung abscess possible, the collection of fluid in the pleural space suggests a pleural process rather than an intraparenchymal problem. In addition, the split pleural sign is not associated with a lung abscess.

**C - Hemothorax** - A hemothorax is possible following blunt trauma to the chest, but associated signs (e.g., bilateral decreased breath sounds) and symptoms (e.g., shortness of breath) would likely appear sooner than 3 weeks after the injury. In addition, a fever is not associated with a hemothorax. It is likely that this patient initially had a hemothorax and developed a complication causing his current presentation because the blood in the pleural space was not drained.

**D - Chylothorax** - A chylothorax is possible following blunt trauma to the chest, but associated signs (bilateral decreased breath sounds) and symptoms (shortness of breath, cough) would likely appear sooner than 3 weeks after the injury. In addition, fever is unlikely to occur with a chylothorax. CT imaging of a chylothorax will show dense fluid density collection in the pleural space, but it is not associated with the split pleura sign.

**F - Mesothelioma** - Pleural mesothelioma is the most common type of mesothelioma, and often results in a malignant pleural effusion, which could present with decreased breath sounds and costophrenic blunting. This patient works in construction, making exposure to asbestos possible, but this condition usually occurs much later in life. This patient's fever, split pleural sign, and history of trauma make another diagnosis more likely.

