### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Ganciclovir** - IV ganciclovir (renally-dosed), combined with immunoglobulin therapy, is the first-line treatment for severe and life-threatening infection with CMV. This patient's fever, cough, dyspnea, and diffuse pulmonary interstitial infiltrates following bone marrow transplantation indicate CMV pneumonia, a severe and life-threatening infection. While other pathogens may cause interstitial lung disease as well, this patient tested positive for pp65 antigen, a marker of active CMV replication. The negative galactomannan antigen test allows invasive pulmonary aspergillosis to be excluded. Patients who have received a bone marrow transplant are at increased risk of CMV infection, particularly within the first 100 days after transplantation. In the case of ganciclovir resistance, IV foscarnet is the preferred agent.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Levofloxacin** - Levofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone with broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity and is commonly used in the treatment of bacterial pneumonia, including atypical pneumonia. Atypical pneumonia can also manifest with fever, cough, dyspnea, and diffuse (versus lobar) infiltrates on chest x-ray. However, given this patient's recent history of bone marrow transplantation and high likelihood of CMV infection, a different treatment option is more appropriate.

**B - Valganciclovir** - Valganciclovir is the treatment of choice for mild to moderate CMV infection and for prophylaxis in transplant recipients at risk for CMV infection. This patient's diffuse pulmonary interstitial infiltrates, fever, cough, and dyspnea following bone marrow transplantation indicate CMV pneumonia. However, CMV pneumonia is a severe infection that carries a high mortality risk, making a more aggressive treatment option more appropriate.

**C - Acyclovir** - Acyclovir is used in the treatment of varicella (VZV) and herpes (HSV) infections. Although these viruses can also cause pulmonary disease in immunocompromised patients, this patient tested positive for pp65 antigen, a marker of active CMV replication. While CMV also belongs to the family of Herpesviridae, acyclovir does not effectively treat CMV pneumonia because it lacks the enzyme thymidine kinase, which is required to take up and activate acyclovir.

**D - Heparin** - Heparin is the treatment of choice for acute pulmonary embolism, which may also manifest with coughing, tachycardia, and shortness of breath. However, the history and laboratory findings in this patient are more consistent with a different diagnosis and this patient's D-dimer levels are low (< 500 ng/mL), essentially ruling out acute PE.

**F - Azithromycin** - Azithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic that can be used in the treatment of atypical pneumonia (especially pneumonia caused by C. pneumoniae, M. pneumoniae, and L. pneumophila). Atypical pneumonia can also manifest with fever, cough, dyspnea, and diffuse (versus lobar) infiltrates on chest x-ray. However, given this patient's recent history of bone marrow transplantation and high likelihood of CMV infection, a different treatment option is more appropriate.

