### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Obtain a pleural fluid specimen** - A patient with a new unilateral pleural effusion requires needle thoracocentesis to obtain a pleural fluid specimen for diagnosis of the underlying etiology. The aspirated pleural fluid is analyzed (e.g., cytochemistry, cell count, pH, albumin, LDH, glucose) and further categorized as a transudative effusion or an exudative effusion. Given this patient's smoking history and underlying cirrhosis, it is important to differentiate between hepatic hydrothorax (transudate) and malignant pleural effusion secondary to lung or liver cancer (exudate). If the patient has an asymptomatic pleural effusion, small volume thoracocentesis is sufficient, but if the patient has symptoms due to pleural effusion (e.g., dyspnea), large-volume thoracocentesis should be performed to provide symptomatic relief.

If a patient with pleural effusion has evidence of respiratory failure (e.g., hypoxemia) or cardiac failure, chest tube insertion (thoracostomy) is required in addition to or instead of thoracocentesis. For patients who have pleural effusions that are infected and loculated (i.e., empyemas) or recurrent, chest tube insertion should be performed as the initial step instead of thoracocentesis. Pleural fluid drainage is not required if the patient has bilateral pleural effusions that are asymptomatic, of equal sizes, suspected to be due to transudation (based on the presence of an underlying cause such as cirrhosis, cardiac failure, or nephrotic syndrome), and responsive to medical therapy (e.g., diuretics).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Release fluid in pericardial space** - Releasing the fluid in the pericardial space (i.e., pericardiocentesis) is appropriate in the management of pericardial effusion that causes cardiac tamponade. Pericardial effusion due to pericarditis can cause cough and chest pain exacerbated by coughing and deep breathing (similar to pleuritic chest pain). However, there is no evidence of fluid in the pericardial cavity on CT in this patient, and she lacks typical clinical features of tamponade (i.e., hypotension, muffled heart sounds, distended neck veins).

Image File: 1404-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_611a8f029d30a.jpg

**B - Insert a chest tube** - For this patient with symptoms due to pleural effusion, drainage of the fluid is required for symptomatic relief. However, if the pleural effusion is a new finding and there is no evidence of significant respiratory failure (e.g., hypoxemia), thoracocentesis should be performed first for fluid drainage, rather than chest tube placement. Insertion of a chest tube to drain fluid is an appropriate initial step in the management of pleural effusions that are recurrent or infected and loculated (i.e., empyemas).

**D - Begin therapeutic anticoagulation** - Initiating therapeutic anticoagulation is an appropriate step in the management of pulmonary embolism (PE), which can manifest with pleuritic chest pain, dyspnea, and cough, and can cause a pleural effusion. However, PE manifests acutely, whereas this patient has had symptoms for the past month. Moreover, a CT scan would show a wedge-shaped infarction in the affected lung segment(s), which is not seen here.

Image File: 1404-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f8845c4a6aa6.jpg

**E - Begin broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy** - Beginning broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy is appropriate in the management of pneumonia, which can manifest with symptoms similar to those seen in this patient (e.g., dyspnea, cough) and can also cause pleural effusion (parapneumonic effusion). However, this patient's CT scan findings do not show typical features of pneumonia (e.g., localized hyperdense areas of consolidation, air bronchograms, ground-glass opacities). The etiology of this patient's pleural effusion should be established before starting antibiotic therapy.

Image File: 1404-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55097c665ce24.jpg

**F - Begin diuretic therapy** - Administration of diuretics (e.g., furosemide) is an appropriate treatment for hepatic hydrothorax due to cirrhosis, which could explain this patient's pleural effusionion. Although this patient may require diuretics in the course of the treatment, another step precedes diuretic administration in this case.

