### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Laryngomalacia** - Laryngomalacia is a congenital anomaly of laryngeal cartilage that causes the collapse of supraglottic structures during inspiration. Manifestations include inspiratory stridor that improves in the prone position and worsens in the supine position and during feeding and crying, as seen in this infant. In addition, 60–70% of children with laryngomalacia have symptoms of gastroesophageal and/or laryngopharyngeal reflux (e.g., frequent regurgitation) due to the higher intrathoracic pressures needed to overcome the inspiratory obstruction. Symptoms of laryngomalacia usually peak at 6–8 months of age, then resolve spontaneously by 2 years of age in ∼ 90% of cases as the cartilages strengthen. The diagnosis is confirmed with flexible laryngoscopy. Because laryngomalacia is a benign, self-limited condition, reassurance and close follow-up is generally sufficient.

Image File: 1405-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_603b38bf4a2c0.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Vascular ring** - A vascular ring around the trachea and esophagus can cause inspiratory stridor and regurgitation of food, both of which are seen in this 6-month-old patient. However, these symptoms usually manifest within the first weeks of life, especially in cases of tracheal compression. In addition, vascular ring anomalies typically also result in dyspnea, dysphagia, and choking, none of which are seen here. Moreover, the stridor caused by a vascular ring classically improves with neck extension, not by lying in the prone position.

**B - Food allergy** - Cow's milk allergy in formula-fed infants can manifest with features of gastroesophageal reflux, including frequent regurgitation. However, food allergies are not associated with the progressive respiratory symptoms also seen in this infant, including noisy breathing while feeding and inspiratory stridor. In addition, this patient does not have other typical symptoms of food allergy, such as abdominal discomfort and diarrhea.

**D - Croup** - Croup is most commonly seen in children between 6 months and 3 years of age and can manifest with inspiratory stridor. However, croup is typically more acute in onset than what is seen in this patient and is associated with other symptoms, including a prodrome (e.g., rhinitis, nasal discharge, congestion, low-grade fever), barking cough, and hoarseness, none of which are seen here. In addition, lying in the prone position typically exacerbates symptoms in patients with croup.

**E - Foreign body aspiration** - A foreign body aspiration (FBA) can manifest with inspiratory stridor. However, FBA is typically more acute in onset than what is seen in this patient and is associated with other symptoms, including choking, coughing, dyspnea, and hoarseness, none of which are seen here. Less commonly, patients can present weeks after an initial episode of FBA; however, typical symptoms in these cases are persistent or recurrent cough with fever.

**F - Gastroesophageal reflux disease** - Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is common in infants (peak incidence of 4–6 months of age) and can manifest with frequent regurgitation. However, GERD in isolation does not cause inspiratory stridor; respiratory symptoms of GERD are typically limited to cough, wheezing, and hoarseness.

