### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Budesonide** - Budesonide is an inhaled glucocorticoid used as a first-line treatment for persistent asthma. This class of drug binds to glucocorticoid nuclear receptors, which leads to increased expression of anti-inflammatory molecules (e.g., lipocortin-1) and decreased expression of inflammatory molecules (e.g., cyclooxygenases). The resulting decrease in bronchial inflammation reduces submucosal edema and bronchoconstriction to relieve asthma-induced bronchial obstruction.

Image File: 1407-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_612ce0a84f967.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Salmeterol** - Salmeterol is an inhaled beta-2 adrenergic agonist used to treat moderate to severe asthma. This drug activates Gs protein-coupled receptors, which results in hyperpolarization of smooth muscle cells of the airways and bronchodilation. Salmeterol does not have a significant anti-inflammatory effect.

**B - Adenosine** - Adenosine is a potent bronchoconstrictor that provokes mast cell degranulation in the airways. Bronchospastic events can occur while administering adenosine cardiac stress tests during myocardial perfusion studies. Use of adenosine for patients with asthma can worsen their condition. Adenosine does not have a significant anti-inflammatory effect.

**C - Theophylline** - Theophylline inhibits phosphodiesterase activity in cells, which increases cAMP levels. This results in hyperpolarization of smooth muscle cells in the lungs, which causes bronchodilation. Theophylline does not have a significant anti-inflammatory effect.

**D - Tiotropium** - Tiotropium is an inhaled antimuscarinic agent that primarily inhibits M3 receptors on smooth muscle cells and submucosal glands. This results in a decrease of Gq protein-coupled receptor activity, which reduces smooth muscle contraction and mucous gland secretions to improve airflow. Tiotropium does not have a significant anti-inflammatory effect.

**E - Montelukast** - Montelukast inhibits the action of leukotriene D4, which results in decreased bronchoconstriction. Though this drug has some anti-inflammatory properties, it is not the most effective drug that reduces bronchial inflammation in patients with asthma.

