### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Primary tuberculosis** - A productive cough, constitutional symptoms, and chest x-ray findings of hilar lymphadenopathy and a fibrous, cavitary lesion (Ghon complex) in a patient living in crowded conditions (i.e., prison) are strongly suggestive of pulmonary tuberculosis (TB). The lack of improvement of this patient's respiratory symptoms with antibiotic therapy should further raise suspicion for this condition. In addition, his chest x-ray consistent with primary TB, which commonly affects the middle and lower pulmonary lobes. In contrast to primary TB, reactivation TB most commonly affects the upper pulmonary lobes and manifests with fibrocaseous cavitary lesions. Pulmonary TB is often accompanied by tuberculous pleurisy, which manifests with chest pain and pleural effusion, as seen in this patient. The analysis of sputum specimens via culture, microscopy, and/or PCR is the easiest and least invasive way to confirm suspected active pulmonary TB.

Image File: 1408-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e8c82296e9a2.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hodgkin lymphoma** - Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) can manifest with B symptoms as well as hilar lymphadenopathy and pleural effusion on chest x-ray, all of which are seen in this patient. Furthermore, mediastinal masses, which cause chest pain, shortness of breath, and cough, are a common feature of HL. However, this patient's chest x-ray shows no signs of a mediastinal mass; his cavitary lesion is not consistent with HL. Moreover, patients with HL typically have a dry rather than productive cough and often present with painless lymphadenopathy, especially in the cervical nodes, which is not seen here.

Image File: 1408-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d90c573c0.jpg

**B - Pulmonary sarcoidosis** - Pulmonary sarcoidosis can manifest with coughing, dyspnea, chest pain, and constitutional symptoms, all of which are seen here. However, pulmonary sarcoidosis usually manifests with a dry rather than productive cough, and a chest x-ray would show bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy and reticular or ground-glass opacities, not a unilateral cavitary lesion.

Image File: 1408-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94ec0143.jpg

**C - Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia** - Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP) can manifest subacutely with dyspnea, constitutional symptoms, bilateral crackles on chest auscultation, and pleural effusion, all of which are seen here. However, PCP occurs almost exclusively in severely immunocompromised individuals, e.g., patients with HIV infection, which is not the case here. Additionally, chest x-ray in PCP typically shows symmetrical, diffuse interstitial infiltrates extending from the perihilar region, not a unilateral cavitary lesion.

Image File: 1408-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_50e04cf6b06c8.jpg

**E - Mesothelioma** - Pleural mesothelioma (the most common type of mesothelioma) can manifest with dyspnea, chest pain, constitutional symptoms, and pleural effusion, all of which are seen in this patient. However, chest x-ray in mesothelioma typically shows multiple nodular pleural lesions seen as pleural thickening, not a unilateral cavitary lesion. Moreover, mesothelioma develops secondary to asbestos exposure, which this patient's former job as a gardener likely did not involve.

