### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Airborne precautions** - Patients with active tuberculosis (TB) disperse bacilli-containing droplet nuclei (aerosols) while coughing or sneezing, warranting airborne precautions in addition to standard precautions. Airborne precautions include the use of an N95 respirator (or a higher-level respirator) when in contact with the patient. Patients with suspected or confirmed TB must be placed in airborne infection isolation rooms (AIIRs) because droplet nuclei can remain suspended in the air and travel long distances. The negative air pressure in AIIRs prevents contaminated air from escaping. Furthermore, patients with TB must wear surgical face masks in an ambulatory care setting or while being transported to another facility.

Other infections requiring airborne precautions include measles, varicella, smallpox, and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) infections (e.g., COVID-19).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Droplet precautions** - Droplet precautions are used to prevent the transmission of pathogens that spread via droplets > 5 μm in size. These measures include the use of surgical masks within a distance of 3–6 feet from the patient. Because tuberculosis is transmitted through even smaller particles that can pass through surgical masks, droplet precautions alone are not sufficient to prevent transmission.

**C - Standard precautions** - Standard precautions are used for the care of all patients, whether or not an infection is probable. These measures include respiratory hygiene, but not necessarily wearing a mask. Because tuberculosis spreads through small particles that enter the respiratory system with the air, standard precautions alone are not sufficient to prevent transmission.

**D - Contact precautions** - Contact precautions are used to prevent the transmission of pathogens that spread via direct contact or fomites (e.g., norovirus). These measures include the use of gloves and gowns but not necessarily the use of masks. Because tuberculosis spreads through small particles that enter the respiratory system with the air, contact precautions alone are not sufficient to prevent transmission.

