### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Interstitial lung disease** - This patient's chest CT scan findings are consistent with interstitial lung disease (ILD), which manifests with a persistent dry cough, exertional dyspnea, digital clubbing (due to chronic hypoxia), and bibasilar inspiratory crackles on auscultation, as seen in this patient. This condition is caused by excess collagen deposition in the extracellular matrix of the lung, leading to diffuse thickening of the alveolar walls and progressive fibrosis of the lung parenchyma. Progressive lung fibrosis results in restrictive lung disease and thickening of the alveolar walls leads to a decreased DLCO. While most cases of ILD are idiopathic (i.e., idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis), this patient's ILD is most likely secondary to rheumatoid arthritis and/or methotrexate use. Smoking is also a risk factor for pulmonary fibrosis.

Image File: 1413-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6139f4d5e4974.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Caplan syndrome** - Caplan syndrome is a rare complication of pneumoconiosis in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Caplan syndrome manifests with rapidly progressive exertional dyspnea, cough, fatigue, crackles on chest auscultation, and decreased DLCO. However, Caplan syndrome is caused by occupational exposure to asbestos, coal, or silica, which is not seen here. Moreover, a CT scan of the chest would show basilar pulmonary nodules, which are not seen here.

**B - Emphysema** - Pulmonary emphysema is common in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which manifests with chronic cough, exertional dyspnea, crackles on chest auscultation, and decreased DLCO, all of which are seen in this patient. Furthermore, this patient's smoking history increases her risk of developing emphysema. However, individuals with COPD usually don't show digital clubbing unless other comorbidities are present (e.g., pulmonary fibrosis, lung cancer). Moreover, a CT scan of the chest would show centrilobular emphysematous spaces with upper lobe predominance, which is not seen here.

Image File: 1413-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5639fcbd73493.jpg

**C - Pleural effusion** - Pleural effusion can be a pulmonary manifestation of rheumatoid arthritis and it can manifest with dyspnea and dry cough, both seen in this patient. However, this condition typically manifests with pleuritic chest pain and decreased or absent breath sounds on auscultation. Moreover, patients with pleural effusion do not present with digital clubbing and decreased DLCO. Finally, a CT scan of the chest would typically show peripheral, sickle-shaped attenuated areas between the lung parenchyma and the thoracic wall, which are not seen here.

Image File: 1413-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_535fb7e041c88.jpg

**D - Pulmonary edema** - Pulmonary edema can manifest with dyspnea, cough, fatigue, crackles on chest auscultation, and decreased DLCO, all of which are seen in this patient. However, pulmonary edema typically presents more acutely and a CT scan of the chest would show airspace consolidation and interlobular septal thickening (Kerley B lines), which are not seen here. Moreover, digital clubbing is not expected in patients with pulmonary edema.

**E - Pulmonary hypertension** - Pulmonary hypertension (PH) can occur in individuals with rheumatoid arthritis-associated lung disease and can manifest with exertional dyspnea, fatigue, nail clubbing, and decreased DLCO, all of which are seen in this patient. However, patients with PH usually have chest pain on exertion and present with signs of right ventricle failure (e.g., jugular vein distention, peripheral edema, a left parasternal heave). Moreover, a CT scan of the chest would show a prominent right border, pronounced central pulmonary arteries, and vascular rarefaction in the peripheral lungs, which are not seen here.

