### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Oral rinsing after medication administration** - Oral rinsing after inhaled steroid use is the most appropriate recommendation. In bronchial asthma, the use of inhaled glucocorticoids such as mometasone results in more targeted steroid delivery to the lungs with much less systemic absorption. However, some of the drug is deposited in the oral cavity, which predisposes patients to local opportunistic fungal infections, especially candidiasis. Gargling or oral rinsing immediately after inhalation is recommended to reduce the local steroid burden and decrease the risk of infection.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole use three times weekly** - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (cotrimoxazole) use has been recommended for patients who take high doses of oral steroids for an extended period of time (> 4 weeks) to prevent infections with certain pathogens, e.g., Pneumocystis jirovecii. However, this is classically recommended in patients with an immunosuppressive disorder such as HIV infection or disseminated cancer, which this patient does not have. The amount of inhaled steroids absorbed into the systemic circulation is generally too small to predispose patients to opportunistic infections.

**B - Pantoprazole use prior to meals** - Pantoprazole helps reduce gastritis, which is a possible side effect of long-term steroid use. However, gastritis is classically seen with systemic steroid use (mainly with oral intake). The amount of inhalational steroids that is swallowed and enters the gastrointestinal tract is generally too small to cause gastritis.

**C - Minimizing use of a spacer** - The use of a spacer would help to increase delivery of inhaled glucocorticoids to the lower respiratory tract and reduce the amount of glucocorticoid that remains in the oral cavity. A spacer should, therefore, be used as often as possible when using inhaled corticosteroids.

**E - Weight-bearing exercise three times weekly** - Weight-bearing exercise three times weekly helps offset osteoporosis, which is a possible side effect of long-term steroid use. However, osteoporosis is classically seen with systemic steroid use. The amount of inhaled steroids absorbed into the systemic circulation is generally too small to cause significant side effects like osteoporosis.

