### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Outpatient treatment with oral amoxicillin** - Treatment with amoxicillin for community-acquired pneumonia is appropriate for patients without preexisting comorbid conditions or risk factors for drug-resistant pathogens (e.g., recent antibiotic therapy, residence in a nursing home). Outpatient therapy is appropriate for patients with a CURB-65 score ≤ 1. This patient does not appear confused, has a urea nitrogen < 20 mg/dL, a respiratory rate < 30/min, systolic blood pressure > 90 mm Hg, diastolic blood pressure > 60 mm Hg, and is under 65 years of age, amounting to a CURB-65 score of 0. Alternative first-line outpatient therapies include monotherapy with doxycycline or a macrolide, such as azithromycin (in areas where macrolide-resistant S. pneumonia rates are < 25%).

Image File: 1415-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5efca8060c40d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Inpatient treatment with intravenous clindamycin** - Clindamycin is used for bacterial infections involving anaerobes (e.g., Clostridium, Bacteroides), such as lung abscesses and aspiration pneumonia. Aspiration pneumonia occurs after foreign material is inhaled into the respiratory tract, often following manipulation of the respiratory or gastrointestinal tract (e.g., upper GI endoscopy) or due to vomiting. Risk factors associated with aspiration pneumonia include heavy drinking, sedation, general anesthesia, apoplexy, and neurodegenerative conditions. In addition, patients typically present with foul-smelling sputum. This patient has none of these factors.

**C - Inpatient treatment with intravenous ceftriaxone and oral azithromycin** - Inpatient treatment with a combination of ceftriaxone and azithromycin is indicated in patients with community-acquired pneumonia and a CURB-65 score ≥ 2. Although this patient likely has community-acquired pneumonia, she has a CURB-65 score of 0, which means that inpatient treatment with these antibiotics is not indicated.

**D - Outpatient treatment with oral levofloxacin** - Levofloxacin is often referred to as a respiratory fluoroquinolone because of its effectiveness in both typical and atypical pneumonia. Outpatient treatment with levofloxacin is used in patients with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP), a CURB-65 score ≤ 1, and additional risk factors for resistant pathogens such as the following: beta-lactam, macrolide, or fluoroquinolone therapy within the past three months; comorbidities (e.g., chronic cardiac, liver, or renal disease, diabetes mellitus, alcoholism, malignancy); and residence in a nursing home. This patient has none of these risk factors.

**E - Inpatient treatment with intravenous cefepime and oral levofloxacin** - Inpatient treatment with intravenous cefepime and oral levofloxacin is indicated in patients with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP), a CURB-65 score ≥ 2, and increased risk for P. aeruginosa pneumonia (e.g., immunosuppression, COPD, structural lung disease). Although this patient likely has CAP, she has a CURB-65 score of 0 and no risk factors for P. aeruginosa pneumonia. Therefore, inpatient treatment with these antibiotics is not indicated.

**F - Outpatient treatment with intravenous ceftriaxone** - Outpatient treatment with ceftriaxone (solely) is not used to treat pneumonia. Inpatient treatment with a beta-lactam, such as ceftriaxone, in combination with a macrolide antibiotic or doxycycline can be used in patients with community-acquired pneumonia, a CURB-65 score ≤ 1, and without risk factors for MRSA and P. aeruginosa.

