### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Silicosis** - This patient's presentation with chronic cough, dyspnea on exertion, and diffuse fine crackles over upper lung fields is suggestive of interstitial lung disease (ILD). The most likely cause of this patient's ILD is exposure-related, given his occupation as a quarry worker for 10 years (inhalation of crystalline silica). Silica is typically found below the earth's surface and most commonly affects the upper lobes of the lungs, as seen on this chest x-ray. While silicosis is typically a clinical diagnosis, a lung biopsy would show silicotic nodules. Patients with silicosis are at increased risk for Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection and should have an annual TB skin test.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Anthracosis** - Anthracosis is caused by inhalation of carbon dust or sooty air (typically seen in urban environments) and results in heterogeneous pulmonary infiltrates primarily affecting the upper lobes of the lung. However, patients with anthracosis are typically asymptomatic, although they occasionally present with cough and dyspnea. Moreover, anthracosis rarely manifests with pulmonary fibrosis.

**B - Asbestosis** - Asbestosis is caused by the inhalation of asbestos fibers and typically manifests with dyspnea on exertion, dry cough, and fine crackles on lung auscultation. However, asbestosis predominantly affects the lower lobes, and chest x-ray typically shows diffuse bilateral infiltrates predominantly in the lower lobes. Moreover, asbestosis is commonly seen in individuals who work in the shipbuilding, roofing, or plumbing industries.

Image File: 1417-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ff2b134a94d0.jpg

**C - Sarcoidosis** - Sarcoidosis most commonly affects the pulmonary system and manifests as interstitial fibrosis with chronic cough, dyspnea on exertion, and fatigue. In contrast to this patient's findings, a chest x-ray in sarcoidosis would show hilar lymphadenopathy without upper lobe predominance. Moreover, sarcoidosis may also manifest with extrapulmonary features, such as peripheral lymphadenopathy and ocular (granulomatous uveitis), skin (lupus pernio), and musculoskeletal involvement, none of which are seen here. This patient's occupation makes an exposure-related cause of interstitial lung disease more likely.

Image File: 1417-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59b933f17f023.jpg

**E - Berylliosis** - Berylliosis typically manifests with progressive dyspnea, cough, and upper lobe involvement with hilar lymphadenopathy. However, berylliosis is typically seen in individuals who work in high-tech sectors, such as the nuclear and aerospace industries, in which the use of beryllium alloys is common. Furthermore, a chest x-ray would show a reticular interstitial pattern of involvement rather than the multiple nodular opacities seen here.

**F - Hypersensitivity pneumonitis** - Hypersensitivity pneumonitis typically manifests with chronic cough, progressive dyspnea, and fatigue. However, this condition is more commonly seen in farmers because of occupational exposure to certain antigens (e.g., avian protein, animal droppings, microorganisms). Furthermore, a chest x-ray in a patient with chronic exposure would show ground-glass attenuation with honeycombing with or without emphysema, which is not seen in this patient.

