### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Human papillomavirus infection** - In the US, human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is responsible for 70% of all new cases of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the oropharynx, which includes the base of the tongue, the palatine tonsils and tonsillar pillars, the soft palate, and the pharyngeal wall. While HPV-negative oropharynx tumors are associated with dietary nitrosamine, alcohol consumption, and smoking, HPV-positive SCC is associated with the sexual transmission of high-risk HPV subtypes (e.g., types 16 and 18). These HPV subtypes produce the E7 protein, which inhibits retinoblastoma protein and consequently promotes increased cell proliferation. Patients usually present with subacute progressive sore throat, halitosis, and dysphagia.

Diagnosis of oropharynx cancers requires a biopsy (e.g., fine needle aspiration or punch biopsy) followed by panendoscopy and CT chest and/or MRI of the head and neck for staging. Management options include surgery or radiation with or without chemotherapy.

Image File: 1419-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_508c11f50b0de.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Gastric acid reflux** - Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a common cause of esophageal adenocarcinoma, which can also manifest with dysphagia and halitosis. Tonsillar cancer, on the other hand, is not associated with GERD.

**C - Obesity** - Obesity is a risk factor for many conditions (e.g., cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus, nonalcoholic steatohepatitis), but it is not associated with oropharyngeal cancer. Patient's diets have a small effect on oropharyngeal cancer risk: Diets with a high nitrosamine concentration (e.g., cured meats, smoked foods) increase the risk of oropharyngeal cancer while diets high in fruits and vegetables decrease the risk.

**D - Herpes simplex virus infection** - This patient's history of recurrent cold sores indicates a reactivated HSV infection. HSV infection is not a known risk factor for oropharyngeal cancer.

**E - Tobacco use** - Tobacco use is strongly associated with HPV-negative oropharyngeal cancer but is not the strongest predisposing factor for oropharynx cancer in most developed countries. While this patient's five-pack-year smoking history could be considered a risk, a different factor likely has a much stronger impact on the development of oropharyngeal cancer in this patient.

