### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Squamous cell lung carcinoma** - Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the lung is the most common type of lung cancer in smokers. It can cause centrally located cavitary lesions, which are consistent with this patient's x-ray findings. Although paraneoplastic syndromes are generally more common in patients with small cell lung cancer, certain paraneoplastic syndromes, including hypercalcemia, primarily arise in association with SCC. Some SCC produce parathyroid hormone-related peptide (PTHrP), which stimulates PTH receptors and thereby increase bone resorption, renal calcium reabsorption, and decrease calcium excretion, resulting in hypercalcemia and hypophosphatemia.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Multiple myeloma** - Multiple myeloma can also present with constitutional symptoms (weight loss, pain, fatigue) and hypercalcemia. In particular, this patient's worsening back pain is concerning for spinal involvement. However, pulmonary symptoms and the x-ray findings are not consistent with this diagnosis.

**B - Tuberculosis** - Tuberculosis can cause a productive cough, hemoptysis, weight loss, and bone pain and may present with a cavitary lesion on x-ray. However, tuberculous cavities typically form in the superior lobes, and this patient has no additional findings of tuberculosis, such as a calcified granuloma (Ghon complex) or hilar lymphadenopathy. Additionally, this patient does not have signs of infection, such as fever, and has no history of immunocompromise or tuberculosis exposure, making this diagnosis unlikely.

Image File: 1421-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5595607f07e38.jpg

**C - Lobar pneumonia** - Pneumonia may also present with wheezing on auscultation and extensive opacity restricted to one pulmonary lobe on x-ray. However, cavitary lesions are unlikely findings in pneumonia, and this patient lacks signs of acute infection, such as fever.

**D - Small cell lung carcinoma** - A productive cough, bloody sputum, and weight loss in an elderly patient (50–70 years of age) with a long history of smoking (30 pack years) should raise suspicion of lung cancer. Small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) is strongly associated with smoking; however, it typically arises in the proximal bronchi as a central nodule and does not usually form cavitary lesions. Furthermore, although it can cause several paraneoplastic syndromes, hypercalcemia is not typically associated with SCLC.

**E - Sarcoidosis** - The constellation of pulmonary symptoms, constitutional symptoms (weight loss, pain, fatigue), and hypercalcemia should raise suspicion of sarcoidosis. However, the cough in sarcoidosis is typically non-productive, and x-rays usually show hilar lymphadenopathy with or without bilateral reticular opacities rather than cavitary lesions. This patient also does not have extrapulmonary manifestations, which are common in sarcoidosis, such as peripheral lymphadenopathy or eye or skin lesions. Additionally, sarcoidosis more commonly occurs in women 25–35 years of age with a second peak at 45–65 years of age.

Image File: 1421-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59b933f17f023.jpg

