### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Methacholine challenge test** - Exercise is a trigger of bronchoconstriction, which typically occurs in individuals with underlying asthma. A methacholine challenge test is a type of bronchial provocation test used to diagnose asthma in patients with inconclusive spirometry findings. Although a methacholine challenge test is an effective way of determining both the hyperresponsiveness of airways and the reversibility of the obstruction, it should be carried out carefully because of its inherent but minimal risk of inducing a life-threatening asthma attack. An exercise challenge test is the method of choice for the definitive diagnosis of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Skin prick test** - Skin prick testing can be used to identify allergens that trigger allergic asthma. This patient, however, has no history of allergic conditions (e.g., atopy), and his clinical presentation (i.e., symptoms provoked during or after exercise) suggests exercise-induced bronchoconstriction.

**B - Single-breath diffusing capacity** - Single-breath diffusing capacity (DLCO) is usually performed to differentiate between intrapulmonary and extrapulmonary causes of restrictive lung disease or hypoxemia that remain unexplained even after spirometry. Since this patient has normal spirometry findings and no hypoxemia, another test should be performed to diagnose his condition.

**C - Chest x-ray** - A chest x-ray can be useful in severe cases of asthma to evaluate for signs of lung hyperinflation (e.g., flattened diaphragmatic contours, hyperlucent lungs) or to rule out alternative diagnoses, such as pneumothorax or pneumonia. This patient's clinical presentation suggests exercise-induced bronchoconstriction, in which chest x-ray findings would be normal.

**D - Eosinophils and total IgE concentration** - Eosinophils and total IgE concentration may be elevated in patients with atopy, certain infections, and allergic asthma. This patient has no history of allergies or infection, and total IgE concentration and eosinophil count are neither sensitive nor specific for such conditions. Moreover, this patient's clinical presentation (i.e., symptoms provoked during or after exercise) suggests exercise-induced bronchoconstriction.

**E - Bronchodilator reversibility test** - A bronchodilator reversibility test, which is performed when lung function tests show airflow obstruction (i.e., decreased FEV1:FVC), can be a helpful step in the diagnosis of obstructive lung diseases (e.g., asthma). However, this patient's spirometry findings are normal (i.e., FEV1:FVC 88%, FEV1 91% of predicted value).

