### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Staphylococcus aureus** - Secondary bacterial pneumonia is a common complication of influenza, especially in the elderly, immunocompromised patients, and infants. Patients with secondary bacterial pneumonia classically develop fever and severe respiratory symptoms after initial improvement of influenza symptoms. The most common infective organisms are Streptococcus pneumonia, Staphylococcus aureus, and Haemophilus influenzae. While these pathogens can all cause pneumatoceles, S. aureus is most frequently associated with this finding.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Pneumocystis jirovecii** - Pneumocystis jirovecii frequently causes atypical pneumonia. In contrast with this patient's findings, atypical pneumonia usually manifests with a dry rather than a productive cough and has an indolent course. Moreover, Pneumocystis pneumonia is typically seen in immunocompromised patients (e.g., in HIV infection, malignancies, immunosuppressive therapy), which is not the case here. Finally, although pneumatoceles may be present, Pneumocystis pneumonia typically manifests with symmetrical, diffuse interstitial infiltrates extending from the perihilar region, which are not seen here.

**C - Legionella pneumophila** - Legionella pneumophila can cause pneumonia, which this patient has. However, legionellosis also typically manifests with gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea) and neurological features (e.g., confusion, agitation, stupor), none of which are present here. X-ray findings also usually show patchy unilateral and lobar infiltrates that progress to consolidation rather than cavities and pneumatoceles.

**D - Mycoplasma pneumoniae** - Mycoplasma pneumoniae is a common cause of atypical pneumonia. In contrast with this patient's findings, atypical pneumonia typically manifests with a dry rather than a productive cough and has an indolent course; pulmonary auscultation is often unremarkable. Moreover, chest x-ray would show diffuse reticular opacities rather than consolidation, cavitation, and pneumatoceles. Finally, Mycoplasma pneumoniae is not a common cause of secondary bacterial pneumonia following influenza.

**E - Mycobacterium tuberculosis** - Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection typically manifests with fever and productive cough with blood-tinged sputum, which are seen in this patient. However, the acute onset of symptoms and the absence of night sweats, weight loss, and lymphadenopathy in this patient make tuberculosis unlikely. Additionally, a chest x-ray would show cavitary lesions in the upper lobes, nodular opacities, and/or hilar lymphadenopathy, but not pneumatoceles.

**F - Aspergillus fumigatus** - Aspergillus fumigatus can cause chronic pulmonary aspergillosis and invasive aspergillosis, both of which can manifest with high fever, blood-tinged sputum, and respiratory distress, which are seen in this patient. However, risk factors for Aspergillus infection include immunosuppression (e.g., in HIV, hematologic malignancies) and underlying pulmonary conditions (e.g., COPD), neither which are present here. In addition, typical chest x-ray findings in patients with aspergillosis include pulmonary infiltrates, multiple nodular and/or cavitary lesions, and aspergilloma; pneumatoceles would not be seen in Aspergillus fumigatus infection.

**G - Klebsiella pneumoniae** - Klebsiella pneumoniae can cause pneumonia, which this patient has. However, Klebsiella most commonly causes hospital-acquired pneumonia and aspiration pneumonia; community-acquired typical pneumonia and secondary bacterial pneumonia are only rarely caused by Klebsiella pneumoniae.

