### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Prednisone** - Treatment of Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) consists of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, which should be initiated rapidly once PCP is suspected. Adjunctive glucocorticoids are indicated in HIV-infected patients with severe respiratory distress (PaO2 ≤ 70 mm Hg or A-a gradient ≥ 35 mm Hg), as this has been shown to improve mortality. The addition of glucocorticoids minimizes the rapid inflammation initially caused by pathogen destruction.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Amphotericin B** - Amphotericin B, an antifungal agent, is used to treat invasive, systemic fungal infections, including Aspergillus, Candida, and Cryptococcus spp. It is not effective against PCP. While beta-D-glucan could also be elevated in Aspergillus or Candida infection, his overall presentation with suppressed CD4 count, hypoxemia, and diffuse interstitial infiltrates on CXR is much more convincing for PCP. Patients with pulmonary Aspergillus usually present with chest pain, fever, and hemoptysis (classic triad), and more commonly have pulmonary nodules on imaging. The absence of oral thrush makes invasive Candida infection very unlikely.

**C - Isoniazid** - Isoniazid is a bactericidal antibiotic used to treat tuberculosis (TB). While this patient is immune suppressed due to his HIV, he is not from an endemic area and lacks other characteristic features of TB, such as night sweats, weight loss, chest pain, and cavitary lung lesion on CXR.

**D - Azithromycin** - Azithromycin, a macrolide antibiotic, is commonly used to treat community-acquired pneumonia, and in HIV-infected patients is used for both prophylaxis and treatment of Mycobacterium avium complex, or MAC infections. While it could present similarly, his CD4 count > 50 makes MAC infection very unlikely.

**E - Filgrastim** - Filgrastim, a form of recombinant G-CSF, is used in the management of neutropenia in patients receiving chemotherapy. While this patient is immune suppressed due to his HIV, it is not an indication for recombinant G-CSF use.

**F - Antiretroviral therapy** - Antiretroviral therapy (ART), a combination regimen used to treat HIV, will be imperative in ensuring the long-term survival of this patient and preventing future opportunistic infections. However, there is no emergent indication to starting it right now and his current hypoxemic respiratory failure from PCP is an indication for an alternate therapy.

