### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Caffeine therapy** - Apnea of prematurity (AOP) reflects immature respiratory control and is commonly seen in preterm neonates or neonates with very low birth weight, with the incidence inversely proportional to the gestational age. AOP typically manifests during the first few days after birth and is diagnosed clinically. Management includes supportive measures such as maintaining a physiological neck position, appropriate incubator temperature, and avoidance of excessive nasal suctioning. Other causes of apnea (e.g., sepsis) should also be ruled out. Additionally, nasal CPAP is indicated in all infants with AOP to keep the upper airways open and to improve oxygenation by improving the ventilation-perfusion ratio. Methylxanthines, such as caffeine, are the mainstay of pharmacological treatment and stimulate respiration, presumably by blocking adenosine receptors. Caffeine therapy is the preferred drug and is indicated in patients with recurrent episodes who require tactile stimulation (e.g., tapping the sole of the foot) to trigger spontaneous breathing, or if ventilatory support is necessary.

Given the high likelihood of developing AOP, caffeine can be administered prophylactically to neonates who are extremely preterm (< 28 weeks' gestation) or have an extremely low birth weight (< 1000 g).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - No further treatment is indicated at this time** - Few nonsevere episodes of AOP can be managed with supportive measures (e.g., maintaining a physiological neck position and appropriate incubator temperature, avoiding excessive nasal suctioning) as well as nasal CPAP to keep the upper airways open and improve oxygenation. This patient has had multiple episodes accompanied by desaturation and requires tactile stimulation to trigger spontaneous breathing. Therefore, additional therapy is indicated.

**C - Surfactant therapy** - Surfactant therapy is indicated in preterm neonates with neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (NRDS) for whom an initial trial of nasal CPAP has been unsuccessful. Although premature neonates have a high risk of NRDS, this patient does not have features that suggest this condition, such as tachypnea, grunting, or nasal flaring. Furthermore, typical findings of NRDS include diffuse ground-glass densities and air bronchograms seen on chest x-ray as well as diminished breath sounds on auscultation. Surfactant therapy has no role in the treatment of AOP.

**D - Corticosteroid therapy** - Corticosteroids (e.g., dexamethasone) may be used in the treatment of severe bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), which can manifest with episodes of desaturation. However, this patient has no other features (e.g., tachypnea, grunting, nasal flaring) that suggest BPD. Moreover, abnormal chest x-ray findings (e.g., fine granular densities, areas of atelectasis interspersed with areas of hyperinflation) and abnormal lung auscultation (e.g., rales or decreased breath sounds) are expected in BPD.

**E - Acid suppression therapy** - Acid suppression therapy may be used with caution in the treatment of severe gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in neonates. All neonates have GERD to some extent because of transient lower esophageal sphincter relaxation. The gastric fluid stimulates the laryngeal chemoreflex response, which is overactive in preterm neonates, resulting in apnea. Although apnea and desaturation may be symptoms of GERD, poor weight gain and feeding intolerance are also expected findings.

