### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Acyclovir** - Intravenous acyclovir is the first-line therapy for varicella-zoster virus (VZV) infections with complications (e.g., pneumonia, hepatitis, encephalitis). After childhood exposure to VZV, the virus remains latent in dorsal root ganglia but can reactivate later in life, especially in patients who are immunocompromised, such as this patient, to cause disseminated shingles. Intravenous treatment should be continued until no new vesicles form; thereafter, oral treatment should be continued until all vesicles become crusted.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole** - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is used to treat many infections, including Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP), an opportunistic infection that manifests with fever, shortness of breath, a dry cough, and diffuse, bilateral, interstitial infiltrates on chest x-ray. However, it does not typically cause nodules on chest x-ray. In addition, PCP usually has a gradual onset of days to weeks; this patient developed symptoms much more acutely. Moreover, PCP is not typically associated with cutaneous lesions.

**B - Amphotericin B** - Amphotericin B is used to treat systemic fungal infections, such as coccidioidomycosis. This condition is caused by Coccidioides immitis, which is endemic to the Southwestern United States (including California). Manifestations include fever, shortness of breath, a dry cough, and nodular infiltrates on chest x-ray. However, coccidioidomycosis usually has a gradual onset of days to weeks; this patient developed symptoms much more acutely. In addition, though coccidioidomycosis can cause cutaneous lesions, it more commonly causes erythema nodosum or erythema multiforme, and it does not cause vesicular lesions.

**C - Azithromycin** - Azithromycin is the treatment of choice for atypical pneumonia (e.g., Mycoplasma pneumonia), which typically manifests with fever, shortness of breath, and a dry cough. It can also cause a bilateral reticulonodular pattern on chest x-ray. However, atypical pneumonia usually has a gradual onset of days to weeks. In contrast, this patient developed symptoms much more acutely. In addition, though M. pneumoniae infection can cause cutaneous lesions, vesicular rashes are a relatively uncommon manifestation. M. pneumoniae infection is classically associated with erythema multiforme.

**D - Ganciclovir** - Ganciclovir is used to treat cytomegalovirus (CMV) pneumonia, an opportunistic infection that can manifest with fever, shortness of breath, a dry cough, and diffuse nodular bilateral interstitial infiltrates on chest x-ray. However, CMV infection does not typically cause cutaneous lesions.

