### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Ampicillin-sulbactam therapy** - Ampicillin-sulbactam is active against gram-positive (e.g., S. pneumoniae) and gram-negative anaerobes, making it the preferred empiric antimicrobial treatment for lung abscesses. This patient should be empirically treated with intravenous ampicillin-sulbactam for 72–96 hours and assessed for clinical improvement before deciding upon further management. Other treatment options include a carbapenem, or, in cases of beta-lactam allergy, clindamycin.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Vancomycin and levofloxacin therapy** - The combination of vancomycin and levofloxacin may be considered in some cases of pneumonia. Vancomycin covers gram-positive bacteria, including methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA), while levofloxacin is a respiratory fluoroquinolone commonly used to treat pneumonia caused by gram-positive bacteria (streptococci) and atypical organisms (Mycoplasma or Chlamydia) in hospitalized patients and those with risk factors for complications such as diabetes or lung disease. This man has a lung abscess that is most likely secondary to aspiration pneumonia, which usually has a polymicrobial etiology involving anaerobic bacteria. These agents are therefore not indicated in this patient.

**B - Bronchoscopy and drainage of the lesion** - Bronchoscopy and drainage of the lesion are used in the treatment of lung abscess if the general condition or radiographic findings of the patient do not improve within 72–96 hours of antibiotic treatment. Drainage of the abscess is not required as long as the abscess drains through the bronchus spontaneously, which is indicated by an air-fluid level on radiography and the presence of foul-smelling sputum, as seen in this patient.

**C - Sputum cultures** - Sputum cultures can aid in detecting the organism responsible for the lung abscess seen in a patient. However, in lung abscess secondary to aspiration pneumonia, bronchoalveolar lavage is usually obtained to minimize contamination of the sample by oral flora. The collection of a culture specimen from the respiratory tract is important to identify the causative organism, as similar organisms also present in the oral flora are often the cause of aspiration pneumonia and lung abscess. While cultures can be used as an adjunct investigation, they should not delay management.

**D - Isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol therapy** - A combination of isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol is used to treat pulmonary tuberculosis (after diagnosing via sputum smear, culture, or nucleic acid amplification). While TB can manifest with fever, fatigue, increasing shortness of breath, and cavitation on radiography, this patient does not have risk factors such as immunodeficiency, diabetes, or exposure. Additionally, TB more commonly manifests with hemoptysis, not with foul-smelling sputum and the air-fluid levels seen in this patient.

**E - CT scan of the chest** - A CT of the chest may be indicated if an x-ray of the chest is unclear or if malignancy is suspected. While lung neoplasms can manifest with fever, shortness of breath, and cavitation on x-ray, symptoms are usually present for longer than 6 weeks. Additionally, foul-smelling sputum is rarely seen in lung cancer, unless secondary anaerobic bacterial infection occurs. Because the patient's clinical features and x-ray are more suggestive of an infectious lung abscess, a CT of the chest is not required at this time (but may be indicated if he does not respond to treatment).

**F - Metronidazole therapy** - Lung abscesses usually have a polymicrobial etiology and, although metronidazole is effective against anaerobes, it is less effective against microaerophilic bacteria such as S. milleri. Monotherapy with metronidazole is therefore not indicated in this patient.

