### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Obtain a chest x-ray** - Patients with a PPD test showing an induration of ≥ 10 mm are considered TB-positive if they are at a high risk, e.g., if they have recently (< 5 years) immigrated from a country such as Nepal where TB is endemic. The next question is whether the patient has latent or active TB, which is determined by chest x-ray. If the x-ray suggests active, pulmonary TB, sputum samples would have to be collected next. If this patient had any symptoms of tuberculosis (e.g., fever, cough, night sweats, hemoptysis), he should be put on respiratory isolation prior to any further diagnostics to prevent spread of the disease.

Image File: 1433-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57dbee11547bc.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform interferon-γ release assay** - Interferon-γ release assay (IGRA) is a useful first test for the diagnosis of latent tuberculosis and an alternative to the PPD skin test, which was already performed in this patient. It will not yield any additional information in this patient, though, as the PPD skin test was already abnormal. The IGRA is preferred over the PPD skin test in children older than 5 years of age and in patients who already received the BCG vaccine because the vaccine can cause false-positive PPD test results. While the BCG vaccine is administered routinely in many countries where TB is endemic, including Nepal, this patient did not receive any childhood vaccinations.

**B - Microscopic examination of the sputum** - Microscopic examination of the sputum with acid-fast stain (also known as Ziehl-Neelsen stain) may be part of the management of patients at moderate or high risk of tuberculosis. Although this test provides rapid results, it is not very sensitive. In this patient's case, a different step should take precedence to determine whether this patient has pulmonary TB.

**D - Administer isoniazid for 9 months** - A 9-month course of isoniazid is one of the recommended regimens for the treatment of latent tuberculosis. But before any treatment is initiated, it is necessary to determine whether the infection is active or latent.

**E - Administer isoniazid + rifampin + pyrazinamide + ethambutol** - Isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide and ethambutol is the most common antibiotic regimen for the treatment of active tuberculosis. However, it is not yet known whether the patient has active or latent tuberculosis. More diagnostic tests are required before initiating treatment.

**F - Perform PCR of the sputum** - PCR may be performed on a sputum sample in cases of suspected tuberculosis. It provides quick results (< 48 hours) and is helpful in differentiating tuberculous from nontuberculous bacteria. While PCR can verify the presence of the bacteria, a different step should take precedence to determine whether this patient has pulmonary TB.

**G - Collect sputum sample for culture** - Collecting sputum samples for culture, which would allow identification of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, may be part of the management of patients at moderate or high risk of tuberculosis. Although culture is considered the gold standard for diagnosis of tuberculosis, results can take up to 6 weeks. A faster diagnostic test should take precedence here.

**H - Reassurance** - Reassurance might be considered if the patient did not have risk factors for tuberculosis. However, because of his recent immigration from a country where tuberculosis is endemic and his abnormal PPD skin test, further diagnostic tests are required. Active tuberculosis is contagious and must be ruled out first!

