### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Blunting of costophrenic angle** - This patient's recent symptoms are consistent with increasing pulmonary impairment due to a growing pleural effusion. Considering his recent weight loss and long history of cigarette smoking, the most likely cause of the effusion is lung cancer. Blunting of the costophrenic angle is a diagnostic feature that can be seen on chest x-ray and is caused by free pleural fluid gathering in the costophrenic recess. Thoracentesis is the most effective method for managing pleural effusion.

Image File: 1435-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d906d05cd.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Elevation of diaphragm** - Elevation of the diaphragm on chest x-ray in a patient with dyspnea can indicate atelectasis. While the auscultation findings are the same as those seen in this patient, atelectasis usually either manifests with sudden onset of acute dyspnea (e.g., following foreign body inhalation) or is asymptomatic if insidious in onset (e.g., lung fibrosis). Dyspnea that develops over a short period of time and is accompanied by a cough suggests another diagnosis.

**B - Ground glass appearance** - A ground glass appearance (opacification) of the lungs on chest x-ray is seen in infections (e.g., PCP), interstitial lung disease (e.g., pulmonary fibrosis), and acute alveolar disease (e.g., pulmonary edema). While all of these conditions manifest with dyspnea and cough, further characteristic symptoms are absent (e.g., fever, protracted disease course, crackles or rales on auscultation). In addition, ground glass opacification is frequently not detected on radiographic imaging and is more typically seen on computed tomography.

Image File: 1435-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d92a69b85.jpg

**C - Widened intercostal spaces** - Widening of the intercostal spaces on chest x-ray is caused by chronic hyperinflation of the lungs in emphysema. Emphysema is most commonly seen in individuals with COPD, which manifests with a chronic productive cough and gradually worsening dyspnea. While tobacco use is the greatest risk factor for developing emphysema, this patient's rapid onset of symptoms makes another diagnosis more likely.

Image File: 1435-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ffe9b8f66010.jpg

**D - Enlarged pulmonary arteries** - Enlarged pulmonary arteries on chest x-ray are seen in individuals with pulmonary hypertension. While early stages may be asymptomatic, features of the underlying condition would be expected (e.g., valvular heart disease, COPD). Physical examination would further reveal a loud second heart sound and signs of right heart failure (e.g., jugular venous distention, hepatic venous congestion), which are not present in this patient.

Image File: 1435-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_50e04cfdda6c4.jpg

**E - Positive air bronchogram** - A positive air bronchogram in a patient with dyspnea and a history of cough could indicate lobar pneumonia or alveolar edema. Lobar pneumonia typically manifests with a productive cough, enhanced tactile fremitus, and crackles on auscultation, while alveolar edema manifests with orthopnea and rales and wheezing on auscultation.

Image File: 1435-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93200278.jpg

**F - Deep sulcus sign** - The deep sulcus sign is a diagnostic finding in patients with pneumothorax. This patient's history of smoking significantly increases his risk of developing a pneumothorax. However, the condition typically manifests with sudden onset of dyspnea and chest pain, as well as hyperresonance on percussion, and is therefore unlikely in this patient.

