### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Fat embolism** - Fat embolism should be suspected in any patient with a closed long bone or pelvic fracture presenting with signs of respiratory failure, neurologic abnormalities, and a petechial rash of the chest, the axilla, or the head. The neurologic symptoms result either from paradoxical embolism or from fatty microemboli that are small enough to pass through the pulmonary circulation, entering the arterial circulation into the CNS. The petechial rash is typically not caused by thrombocytopenia; it results from fatty occlusion of dermal capillaries with subsequent extravasation of erythrocytes.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Myocardial infarction** - Myocardial infarction (MI) typically presents with acute chest pain. While an atypical presentation with dyspnea is possible, especially in older patients, women, or diabetics, the development of neurological abnormalities and a petechial rash in the setting of a borderline low platelet count, as well as sinus tachycardia on ECG suggests a different diagnosis. Additionally, in a patient with acute MI, the ECG is expected to show signs of ischemia (e.g., ST-elevations, ST-depression, T-wave inversion) rather than just sinus tachycardia.

**B - Traumatic rhabdomyolysis** - Traumatic rhabdomyolysis typically results from severe crushing traumas, e.g., after being trapped under a collapsed building or a car accident. Rhabdomyolysis usually causes myalgia, generalized weakness, and darkened urine from excess myoglobin. While this patient has a slight increase in the creatine kinase (CK) level, it is likely induced by the fracture-associated muscle trauma. Rhabdomyolysis may be suspected if the CK is ≥ 5 times the normal range, but levels often exceed 100,000 U/L. While this patient experienced a trauma, she lacks the aforementioned symptoms, making rhabdomyolysis less likely. Acute dyspnea and altered mental status together with a bone fracture suggest a different diagnosis.

**D - Thyrotoxic crisis** - Thyrotoxic crisis may be precipitated by a stress-related surge in catecholamines, e.g., during anesthesia induction or surgery. Patients often have a history of hyperthyroidism and typically present with tachycardia, high fever, nausea, and altered mental status. While this cannot be entirely excluded, sudden onset respiratory dysfunction in this patient with a bone fracture and no history of thyroid disease makes another diagnosis more likely.

**E - Malignant hyperthermia** - Malignant hyperthermia may also present with tachycardia, tachypnea, and increased body temperature and may occur either intraoperatively or, less commonly, during the early postoperative period. However, the cardinal symptoms of malignant hyperthermia are muscle rigidity, which this patient does not display, and rapid increase in body temperature. While this patient is febrile, the rise in body temperature in patients with malignant hyperthermia is usually much more dramatic, sometimes at a rate of 1–2°C every 5 minutes, often exceeding 42°C. Although this patient has a slight increase in the creatine kinase (CK) level, it is likely induced by the fracture-associated muscle trauma, rather than rhabdomyolysis secondary to malignant hyperthermia. In malignant hyperthermia, CK levels usually exceed 10,000 U/L. The presence of severe respiratory failure, neurologic abnormalities, and a petechial rash of the chest make another diagnosis more likely.

**F - Meningitis** - Meningitis is typically associated with fever, headache, and neck stiffness. In particular, meningococcal meningitis also often presents with a petechial rash, and in rare cases leads to the devastating Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome. Although this patient presents with fever and petechiae, she does not have a headache or neck stiffness. In addition, she presents with sudden dyspnea directly after a surgical procedure of a long bone, making another diagnosis more likely.

