### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Cisplatin-etoposide therapy and radiotherapy** - The combination of polychemotherapy (with cisplatin and etoposide) and radiation therapy is the treatment of choice for small cell lung cancer (SCLC) in patients with limited-stage disease. Individuals with limited-stage SCLC should receive treatment with curative intent. SCLC is usually unresectable and surgery is only considered in limited-stage disease with very small lesions and no evidence of nodal involvement.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Wedge resection** - Wedge resection for lung cancer is generally reserved for patients with non-small cell lung cancer who cannot tolerate a lobectomy (e.g., patients with poor pulmonary function or comorbidities). SCLC is usually unresectable and surgery is only considered in limited-stage disease with very small lesions and no evidence of nodal involvement.

**B - Radiation therapy** - While radiation therapy is typically part of the initial treatment for limited-stage small cell lung cancer (SCLC), radiation alone is not the mainstay of treatment and is not curative.

**C - Prophylactic cranial irradiation** - Prophylactic cranial irradiation is used to prevent the occurrence of brain metastases in patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC) who have responded to initial chemotherapy treatment. This patient should first undergo initial treatment before considering prophylactic cranial irradiation.

**E - Right lobectomy** - Lobectomy for lung cancer is usually reserved for patients who have non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). SCLC is typically unresectable and surgery is only considered in limited-stage disease in which there are very small lesions and no evidence of nodal involvement or distant metastases.

**F - Gefitinib therapy** - Targeted therapy with EGFR inhibitors (such as gefitinib) is indicated in patients with EGFR-positive, advanced-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). This patient, however, has small cell lung cancer (SCLC), which requires a different treatment.

