### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Emphysema** - This patient's age, symptoms (dyspnea, productive cough, expiratory wheezing), and history of asthma and tobacco use in combination with signs of airway obstruction on pulmonary function test are highly suggestive of COPD. COPD often presents with emphysema from destruction of alveolar walls due to respiratory obstruction and recurrent infections. Decreased DLCO, as seen in this patient, is a typical finding of emphysema that reflects the reduction of gas exchange due to a loss of diffusion area.

Image File: 1440-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_604edaea56cd1.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Asthma** - Although this patient's respiratory symptoms and spirometry findings may suggest asthma, his diffusion capacity is reduced rather than normal or elevated as would be expected in asthma patients. Furthermore, his respiratory symptoms have progressed for the span of over one year and do not occur in form of acute asthma attacks.

**B - Chronic bronchitis** - Chronic bronchitis is an important differential diagnosis in patients with a history of smoking. This patient group usually presents with (exertional) dyspnea, productive cough, and end-expiratory wheezes lasting for at least 3 months in 2 consecutive years. Spirometry also shows an obstructive lung pattern, as is the case in this patient. However, DLCO is typically normal in patients with chronic bronchitis, in contrast to the decreased levels seen in this patient, since there are no structural changes in alveoli that impair the diffusing capacity.

**C - Congestive heart failure** - While patients with CHF may present with dyspnea due to pulmonary edema, they usually have additional signs and symptoms of left-sided (e.g., S3/S4 gallop, cool extremities, cerebral and renal dysfunction, diaphoresis) or right-sided (e.g., peripheral pitting edema, jugular venous distention, hepatomegaly, ascites) heart failure. Moreover, CHF would rather show a restrictive respiratory pattern in pulmonary functioning tests as a result of pulmonary edema.

**D - Pulmonary hypertension** - Pulmonary hypertension is often asymptomatic in early stages, but may present with dyspnea and coughing similar to the symptoms seen in this patient. Diffusion capacity is also often impaired in individuals with pulmonary hypertension. Although spirometry may show an obstructive lung pattern, e.g. when COPD is the underlying cause, it usually shows normal findings in patients with pulmonary hypertension. Also, physical examination would typically show a loud and palpable second heart sound, jugular vein distention and/or other symptoms of right heart failure, which are not seen in this patient.

**E - Bronchiectasis** - Individuals with bronchiectasis typically present with dyspnea, wheezing, and productive cough, as seen in this patient. If bronchiectasis is caused by an obstructive pulmonary disease (e.g., COPD), spirometry may show a similar pattern, as seen here. Diffusion capacity may also be impaired depending on the pulmonary condition involved, but is not typically affected in individuals with bronchiectasis. Moreover, the absence of other typical features of bronchiectasis, such as production of large amounts of sputum, hemoptysis, and recurrent pulmonary infections makes a different cause more likely.

**G - Asbestosis** - This patient presents with typical features of asbestosis including dyspnea, coughing, wheezing on auscultation, and, as seen in some cases, reduction of diffusion capacity. Although his history of shipyard work is a risk factor for asbestosis, it would typically present with an restrictive pattern in pulmonary functioning test, making a different diagnosis more likely.

