### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Pulmonary tuberculosis** - Patients with advanced silicosis are at increased risk of pulmonary tuberculosis, since silica disrupts phagolysosomes and impairs macrophage function. Silicosis also increases the risk of developing lung cancer, cor pulmonale, and rheumatoid arthritis (Caplan syndrome).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Malignant mesothelioma** - Malignant mesothelioma is associated with asbestosis, a pneumoconiosis that could present similarly with features of progressive pulmonary fibrosis (e.g., dyspnea, dry cough, fatigue, fine crackles). However, asbestosis predominantly affects the lower lobes (unlike this patient with upper lobe nodules), is typically associated with pleural plaques, and usually does not affect the hilar lymph nodes. Moreover, asbestosis is typically seen in individuals working in shipbuilding, roofing, or plumbing industries. Silicosis is associated with an increased risk of lung parenchymal malignancy but not mesothelioma.

**B - Invasive aspergillosis** - Invasive aspergillosis is an infection caused by the fungus Aspergillus, which is characterized by severe pneumonia and septicemia. Invasive aspergillosis is mainly associated with immunosuppression (e.g., HIV infection, primary immunodeficiency disorders, immunosuppressive therapy, malignancies), not with Silicosis. However, an underlying lung disease is a risk factor for chronic pulmonary aspergillosis, which can manifest as aspergilloma, aspergillus nodule, or cavitary/fibrosing aspergillosis.

**C - Pneumocystis pneumonia** - Pneumocystis pneumonia is an interstitial pneumonia caused by the yeast-like fungus Pneumocystis jirovecii, it is mainly associated with immunosuppression (e.g., HIV infection, primary immunodeficiency disorders, immunosuppressive therapy, malignancies). An immunocompetent patient with silicosis is unlikely to develop Pneumocystis pneumonia.

**D - Spontaneous pneumothorax** - A spontaneous pneumothorax is characterized by a spontaneous collection of air within the pleural space, it is typically associated with a tall thin stature, smoking, and emphysematous lung disease. Silicosis is a fibrotic lung disease that is not associated with an increased risk of spontaneous pneumothorax.

**E - Pulmonary embolism** - Pulmonary embolism is typically associated with prothrombotic states such as prolonged immobilization (e.g., postoperatively), nephrotic syndrome, antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, polycythemia, advanced malignancy, and hereditary thrombosis syndromes (e.g., factor V Leiden deficiency, protein C or protein S deficiency). Silicosis is not a prothrombotic condition.

