### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Liver injury** - Liver injury is a common adverse effect of isoniazid (INH), which in most cases is evidenced only by mildly elevated transaminases. However, a small number of patients develop fulminant hepatitis; older age is a major risk factor. INH is also associated with vitamin B6 deficiency (which can manifest with sideroblastic anemia and peripheral neuropathy), cytochrome P450 inhibition, and drug-induced lupus erythematosus. A small proportion of patients may also experience optic neuropathy and impaired color vision. Thus, concurrent administration of pyridoxine (vitamin B6) is often recommended.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Optic neuropathy** - Optic neuropathy manifesting as red-green color blindness is a common side effect of ethambutol, an antimycobacterial drug that prevents bacterial cell wall synthesis by inhibiting arabinosyltransferase. Ethambutol is used for treatment of active tuberculosis during the initial phase of therapy in conjunction with other agents. It is not indicated as monotherapy for latent tuberculosis. Optic neuropathy may rarely be caused by isoniazid, but this patient is at greater risk for a different adverse effect.

**C - Hyperuricemia** - Hyperuricemia is a side effect seen in patients taking pyrazinamide, an antimycobacterial drug whose exact mechanism of action has not been elucidated. Pyrazinamide is used for treatment of active tuberculosis during the initial phase of therapy in conjunction with other agents. It is not indicated as monotherapy for latent tuberculosis. Hepatotoxicity is another common adverse effect of pyrazinamide.

**D - Cytochrome P-450 induction** - Cytochrome P-450 induction is a side effect of rifampin, an antimycobacterial drug that obstructs bacterial protein synthesis by inhibiting bacterial DNA-dependent RNA polymerase, thereby preventing transcription. Rifampin is used for treatment of tuberculosis (active and latent) as well as nontuberculous mycobacterial diseases. Further adverse effects include flu-like symptoms, and harmless orange discoloration of body fluids (e.g., urine, tears).

**E - Nephrotoxicity** - Nephrotoxicity is a side effect seen in streptomycin, an aminoglycoside that inhibits bacterial protein synthesis by binding to the 30S subunit of the bacterial ribosome. Streptomycin is used as second-line therapy for active tuberculosis in combination with other antimycobacterial agents. It is not indicated as monotherapy for latent tuberculosis. Further adverse effects include ototoxicity and vestibulotoxicity.

