### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Smoking cessation** - COPD is a preventable lung disease characterized by airway obstruction due to inflammation of the small airways and is primarily caused by long-term smoking. Smoking cessation is the single most important measure to reduce the rate of decline in FEV1 at all stages of COPD. It has been shown that the earlier the cessation is achieved, the greater the benefit for lung function. Other measures that improve lung function of COPD patients include treatment with inhaled corticosteroids and bronchodilators.

Image File: 1448-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fae83960413a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Breathing exercises** - Physiotherapy with breathing exercises as part of pulmonary rehabilitation is a supportive measure in the treatment of COPD patients. It has been shown to improve symptoms, exercise capacity, and quality of life. However, there is an intervention with a greater impact on the rate of decline in FEV1.

**C - Salmeterol therapy** - Salmeterol is a long-acting beta agonist used as combination or monotherapy in patients with COPD. This drug has been shown to significantly decrease exacerbation rates and improve lung function. However, there is an intervention with a greater impact on the rate of decline in FEV1.

**D - Fluticasone therapy** - Fluticasone is an inhaled corticosteroid used in combination with a long-acting bronchodilator in patients with severe COPD. Even though this combination therapy has been shown to improve lung function and exacerbations rates, fluticasone monotherapy seems to have little impact on the rate of decline in FEV1.

**E - Alpha-1 antitrypsin therapy** - Intravenous alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) replacement therapy is used in patients with COPD due to severe AAT deficiency, a genetic disorder presenting with liver disease as well as early-onset panacinar emphysema. However, severe AAT deficiency is rare and would usually manifest earlier in life with hepatic involvement (e.g., hepatitis, cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma).

