### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Oral amoxicillin-clavulanic acid** - Amoxicillin-clavulanic acid is a penicillin antibiotic combined with a β-lactamase inhibitor that is used to treat a number of bacterial infections, particularly respiratory tract infections. It is considered the first-line treatment for acute bacterial rhinosinusitis and is, therefore, the appropriate treatment for this patient.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - X-ray of the sinuses** - X-ray of the sinuses is usually not recommended in acute sinusitis because it does not help to differentiate between etiologies, and findings from it rarely influence the choice of treatment.

**B - Intravenous amphotericin B** - Amphotericin B is an antifungal agent used to treat and prevent severe fungal infections such as aspergillosis, candidiasis, coccidioidomycosis, mucormycosis, and histoplasmosis. Fungal sinusitis (e.g., caused by Aspergillus species) is rare and usually only occurs in immunocompromised patients. Although diabetes mellitus is a risk factor, there is no indication that his diabetes is poorly controlled, making this diagnosis unlikely. In addition, fungal sinusitis due to Aspergillus is usually accompanied by asthma and other atopic manifestations, which are absent in this patient. A different treatment is more appropriate at this time.

**D - CT scan of the paranasal sinuses** - A CT scan of the paranasal sinuses is not routinely performed in acute sinusitis. It may be used if complications (e.g., osteomyelitis, orbital cellulitis) occur, to rule out differential diagnoses (e.g., neoplasms), or preoperatively in patients with chronic sinusitis (e.g., surgical debridement of necrotic tissue and/or removal of anatomical obstructions).

**E - Oral levofloxacin** - Levofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic used to treat a variety of bacterial infections, including respiratory tract infections and urinary tract infections. It is considered a second-line antibiotic in the treatment of acute bacterial sinusitis and should not be the next step in the management of this patient.

**F - Reassurance and follow-up in 1 week** - Reassurance and supportive treatment with antipyretics, analgesics, and nasal decongestants are usually sufficient in the treatment of patients with viral rhinosinusitis. However, because this patient has had symptoms for more than 10 days and a mucopurulent discharge suggestive of a bacterial infection, a different treatment is indicated.

**G - Oral loratadine** - Loratadine is a histamine H1 antagonist used to treat allergic rhinitis and urticaria. It is not indicated for the treatment of acute bacterial rhinosinusitis.

