### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Cefepime and levofloxacin** - Cefepime and levofloxacin are the first-line treatment for patients with CAP in whom there is a high suspicion of P. aeruginosa infection. Other treatment options for CAP with P. aeruginosa include piperacillin/tazobactam, meropenem, or imipenem plus a fluoroquinolone. An aminoglycoside may be added as well.

Image File: 1453-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5efca8060c40d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ceftriaxone and azithromycin** - Combination therapy with ceftriaxone and azithromycin is used to treat severe CAP that requires admission to the ICU (e.g., acute respiratory failure, septic shock). Although this patient has CAP and may require admission to the ICU, the most likely causative organism here is P. aeruginosa, against which ceftriaxone and azithromycin are not effective.

**B - Ertapenem** - Ertapenem can be used to treat CAP caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, or Moraxella catarrhalis. Although this patient has CAP, ertapenem is ineffective against P. aeruginosa and is therefore not indicated in this case.

**C - Vancomycin** - Vancomycin only provides coverage against gram-positive organisms and is mainly used to treat methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). This patient most likely has an infection with P. aeruginosa, a gram-negative rod, against which vancomycin is ineffective.

**D - Colistin** - Colistin is a last resort antibiotic that is used to treat multidrug resistant gram-negative bacteria (MDRGN). Risk factors for MDRGN include prior antibiotic use, as seen in this patient, lengthy hospital stays, and age > 70 years. Although infection with a multidrug resistant P. aeruginosa strain cannot be ruled out at this point, the patient should be started on the first-line empiric treatment for CAP with P. aeruginosa infection first. An antibiotic sensitivity test should be conducted before considering an antibiotic of last resort.

**F - Clarithromycin and amoxicillin-clavulanate** - Clarithromycin and amoxicillin-clavulanate are used in the outpatient treatment of CAP patients with comorbidities and recent antibiotic treatment. This patient has COPD and received recent antibiotic treatment, but he is not a candidate for outpatient treatment as he has a CURB-65 score ≥ 2 and is hypoxic. In addition, this regimen is not effective against P. aeruginosa and is therefore not appropriate in this patient.

