### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease** - This patient has a history of long-term smoking, worsening shortness of breath, increased cough with wheezing, and signs of respiratory acidosis on ABG. His presentation is consistent with an acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. His recent upper respiratory tract infection was the likely trigger, as approximately 80% of COPD exacerbations are caused by infectious etiology.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Acute pneumothorax** - Acute pneumothorax presents with acute onset of dyspnea and chest pain. However, pneumothorax typically presents with unilaterally diminished or absent breath sounds. This patient's presentation with bilateral diminished breath sounds and wheezing is inconsistent with pneumothorax.

**B - Acute asthma exacerbation** - An acute asthma exacerbation classically presents with dyspnea, wheezing on lung auscultation, diminished breath sounds, and acute respiratory acidosis with hypercapnia, as seen in this patient. However, this patient's advanced age and smoking history, with no prior history of asthma, are more suggestive of an alternative diagnosis. In addition, his ABG analysis shows an increased HCO3-, suggesting renal compensation, a process that is typically not seen with an acute asthma exacerbation.

**C - Acute pulmonary embolism** - Acute pulmonary embolism (PE) manifests with shortness of breath, cough, and chest pain. Bilaterally reduced breath sounds and wheezing would not be expected in acute PE. Initially, ABG analysis would typically show respiratory alkalosis secondary to tachypnea, as opposed to the respiratory acidosis seen in this patient. Furthermore, he lacks risk factors for PE (e.g., hypomobility, malignancy, recent surgery).

**E - Acute decompensation of congestive heart failure** - Acute decompensation of congestive heart failure (CHF) classically presents with dyspnea, orthopnea, bibasilar crackles, lower extremity edema, and an S3/S4 gallop. While this patient's history of poorly controlled hypertension and long-term tobacco use are risk factors for CHF, he has no symptoms of this condition apart from dyspnea. In addition, CHF exacerbation typically presents with hypoxemia without significant CO2 retention unlike the hypercapnia on ABG analysis seen here.

**F - Acute respiratory distress syndrome** - Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) classically presents acutely in severely ill patients with inflammatory conditions, such as sepsis, shock, trauma, or acute pancreatitis. Clinical features include dyspnea, tachypnea, diffuse crackles on pulmonary auscultation, cyanosis, and fever. Early in the course of ARDS, ABG analysis would show severe hypoxemic respiratory failure with respiratory alkalosis as opposed to the acidosis seen here.

**G - Acute aspiration pneumonia** - Aspiration pneumonia manifests with fever, cough, sputum production, localized dullness to percussion, and crackles in dependent lung regions (e.g., right lower lobe). While this patient's heavy drinking represents a risk factor for aspiration of foreign objects, which can cause aspiration pneumonia, his exam findings and lack of fever or sputum production are inconsistent with pneumonia.

