### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Rhizopus oryzae** - Rhizopus oryzae is the most commonly implicated organism, followed by Mucor species, in the pathophysiology of mucormycosis. This condition most often presents as a unilateral maxillofacial infection with retro-orbital headache, facial pain, nasal discharge, and fever. Severe cases can also lead to altered levels of consciousness (indicative of cerebral involvement), eschars (due to microvascular occlusion and resulting tissue necrosis), and cranial nerve palsies. The presence of eschar is particularly concerning for this condition. This patient manifests several of these early and late signs and symptoms. Moreover, diabetic ketoacidosis is strongly implicated in the pathophysiology of this infection. The history of missed insulin doses combined with urine and serum ketones is diagnostic of ketoacidosis.

Image File: 1455-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fe0dd6cc80d8.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Haemophilus influenzae** - Haemophilus influenzae is a gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic coccobacillus. With the advent of the Hib vaccine, the incidence of serious bacterial infection attributable to encapsulated strains of H. influenzae has dropped sharply. In developed nations, infection with unencapsulated strains still occurs but is usually mild, causing acute otitis media, conjunctivitis, or sinusitis in children. In developing nations, where vaccination is less common, encapsulated strains may still cause bacteremia, pneumonia, or acute epiglottitis. This adult has no indication of missed vaccinations and has a progressive, localized infection that is not frequently associated with H. influenzae.

**C - Candida albicans** - Candida albicans is a common fungal species that exists as normal skin flora. In diabetic patients, there is an increased risk of developing localized overgrowth of the fungus in the mouth, causing thrush. In immunocompromised patients, disseminated candidiasis or candidal esophagitis may develop. However, C. albicans is not known to cause necrotizing facial infections, such as this patient is presenting with.

**D - Klebsiella pneumoniae** - Klebsiella pneumoniae is part of the normal bacterial flora of the body but can become an opportunistic pathogen; the presence of diabetes, especially with poor control, is a risk factor for infection with this bacterium. The most common sites of K. pneumoniae infection are the urinary tract (cystitis and pyelonephritis) and the lower respiratory tract (pneumonia). This patient is certainly at risk of developing an infection with this agent but the current presentation of necrotizing maxillofacial infection would be very unusual for K. pneumoniae.

**E - Moraxella catarrhalis** - Moraxella catarrhalis is common respiratory bacterium. Infection with this organism most commonly manifests with upper respiratory or otitis media symptoms. Severe, necrotizing infection, as described in this patient, would be extremely unlikely.

**F - Staphylococcus aureus** - Staphylococcus aureus is a gram-positive coccus that classically forms clusters when viewed microscopically. This virulent bacterial species is associated with many infections; skin manifestations include cellulitis, impetigo, folliculitis, and even necrotizing fasciitis. The most common presentations are isolated skin abscesses in an adult or impetigo in a child. A necrotizing infection of the face would be very uncommon for this pathogen. Moreover, the presence of diabetic ketoacidosis and a newly formed eschar are more concerning for infection from a different organism.

**G - Pseudomonas aeruginosa** - Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a highly virulent bacterial species. It is implicated in many infectious conditions and can be especially difficult to treat in cases of nosocomial or multidrug-resistant infections. With regard to the subpopulation of diabetic patients, Pseudomonas classically causes malignant otitis externa. This condition leads to severe ear pain, discharge from the ear canal, facial nerve palsy, and local extension to periauricular structures. Examination may show granulation tissue (often described as “sand-like”). Besides poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, other risk factors include advancing age and general immunosuppression. Despite her diabetes, this patient's presentation is inconsistent with malignant otitis externa.

**H - Streptococcus pneumoniae** - Streptococcus pneumoniae is a common gram-positive pathogenic bacterium. It is the most common cause of sinusitis, though the clinical presentation is generally mild and consists of rhinorrhea, facial tenderness (especially on palpation of the effected sinuses), and headache. Numerous other infectious conditions are attributable to this bacterium, including dermatologic infections (abscesses and cellulitis, most often). This patient is presenting with a severe, necrotizing skin infection in the setting of poorly controlled diabetes, altered sensorium, and an eschar. This constellation is very concerning for a more sinister infectious agent than S. pneumoniae.

