### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Empiric antibiotic therapy** - Empiric antibiotic therapy for 5–7 days has been shown to enhance symptom resolution in AECOPD and is indicated for patients with the following symptoms: worsening dyspnea, increased sputum volume, increased sputum purulence (2 symptoms suffice if one of the symptoms is increased sputum purulence) as well as in patients who require mechanical ventilation. The antibiotics used for the empirical therapy of community-acquired pneumonia (e.g., amoxicillin-clavulanate, azithromycin) are used in AECOPD, as the same infectious agents cause AECOPD. In addition to rapidly-acting bronchodilators (e.g., albuterol) and antibiotics, systemic glucocorticoids (e.g., prednisone, methylprednisone) and supplemental oxygen titrated to a target saturation of 88–92% should be administered. Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) is indicated if the patient has hypoxemia refractory to supplemental oxygen therapy, signs of increased work of breathing, and/or respiratory acidosis. Patients who experience substantial and sustained improvement with initial pharmacotherapy and NIPPV can be treated as outpatients, but patients with altered mental status, hemodynamic instability, severe respiratory acidosis, and/or severe hypoxemia (i.e., refractory to the initial treatment or can only be treated with high levels of FiO2) should be hospitalized and considered for invasive mechanical ventilation.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Invasive mechanical ventilation** - In the case of AECOPD, ventilatory support is indicated if the patient has severe dyspnea and signs of increased work of breathing, respiratory acidosis, and/or persistent hypoxemia despite supplemental oxygen. This patient with hypoxemia and labored breathing would certainly benefit from ventilatory support, but noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) is the first-line option in such a scenario. Invasive mechanical ventilation (i.e., with endotracheal intubation) is indicated only if a trial of NIPPV fails (e.g., poor patient tolerance, worsening hypoxemia), if NIPPV is contraindicated (e.g., altered mental status, high risk of aspiration), or if the patient has severe hemodynamic instability.

**B - Long-term oxygen therapy** - Long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT) is indicated for COPD patients who have severe, persistent hypoxemia at rest in the absence of AECOPD. This patient with AECOPD and an oxygen saturation of 86% requires immediate oxygen therapy to achieve an oxygen saturation of 88–92% (titrated to this range to avoid oxygen-induced hypercapnia), but the need for LTOT can only be assessed after the AECOPD resolves, not during an AECOPD episode.

**D - Inhaled corticosteroid therapy** - In patients with eosinophilia and a history of frequent or severe AECOPD episodes, inhaled corticosteroids (e.g., beclomethasone, budesonide, fluticasone) can be used as an adjunct to the standard maintenance pharmacotherapy. However, there is a lack of empirical evidence to support the routine use of inhaled corticosteroids in the acute management of AECOPD. Instead, short-term oral or intravenous corticosteroid therapy is indicated because of its proven clinical benefits in decreasing the duration and severity of AECOPD.

**E - Spirometry** - Although spirometry is an integral part of the workup of stable COPD, it is impractical to perform in emergency settings and has a smaller impact on the acute management of exacerbations compared to other diagnostic and clinical parameters. Spirometry is, therefore, not routinely recommended in the assessment of AECOPD.

**F - Roflumilast therapy** - Phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) inhibitors (e.g., roflumilast) can reduce the frequency of AECOPD episodes and are an option for maintenance pharmacotherapy in patients with COPD who, despite optimal maintenance inhaler therapy, have frequent or severe AECOPD episodes. This patient could be considered a candidate for long-term PDE4 inhibitor therapy, but PDE4 inhibitors do not play a role in the acute management of AECOPD.

