### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Oral diphenhydramine** - Patients with suspected upper airway cough syndrome (UACS) should receive empiric treatment with a first-generation antihistamine (e.g., dimetindene, diphenhydramine) for 2 weeks to achieve decongestion and subsequent reduction of postnasal drip. If symptoms improve within these 2 weeks, the diagnosis of UACS is confirmed. The underlying cause (e.g., vasomotor rhinitis) should be subsequently treated.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Smoking cessation** - Though smoking cessation is always recommended in patients with airway disease (especially in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), it is not likely to improve this patient's symptoms of UACS. This patient only smokes very rarely, and her symptoms are not temporally associated with smoking. The patient also does not have any symptoms associated with obstructive airway disease (e.g., wheezing, dyspnea), and her FEV1, which would be reduced in obstructive airway disease, is normal.

**B - Prednisone therapy** - Corticosteroids are used to reduce airway inflammation and to treat acute exacerbations of obstructive airway diseases such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The patient does not have any classic symptoms associated with obstructive airway disease (e.g., wheezing, dyspnea), and her FEV1, which would be reduced in obstructive airway disease, is normal. Even in this setting, cough-variant asthma cannot be excluded with certainty. However, another condition is a much more frequent cause of chronic cough.

**C - Inhaled salmeterol** - Salmeterol is a long-acting beta-2 adrenergic agonist used to treat persistent asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. This patient does not have any classic symptoms of obstructive airway disease (e.g., wheezing, dyspnea), and her FEV1, which would be reduced in obstructive airway disease, is normal. Even in this setting, cough-variant asthma cannot be excluded with certainty. However, another condition is a much more frequent cause of chronic cough and runny nose.

**D - Oral amoxicillin-clavulanate** - Amoxicillin-clavulanate is indicated in cases in which a bacterial culprit is suspected, such as bacterial pneumonia and acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Bacterial pneumonia manifests with signs of infection (e.g. fever, tachycardia) that are not present in this patient. Physical examination in patients with pneumonia shows signs of consolidation, such as increased tactile fremitus and decreased breath sounds. In an exacerbation of COPD, wheezing is typically heard. None of these findings are present in this patient.

**E - Oral pantoprazole** - Pantoprazole is a proton-pump inhibitor (PPI) used to treat cough caused by gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). It is unlikely that this patient has GERD given that she has no strong risk factors (e.g., heavy smoking, obesity) and no symptoms of GERD (e.g., heartburn, reflux). If a patient with cough is suspected to have underlying GERD, first-line therapy with PPIs is warranted.

**F - Codeine syrup** - Codeine is an opioid used as a central cough suppressant for symptomatic relief, but it is not the most appropriate next step in management for this patient. In upper airway cough syndrome, in which cough serves as a protective mechanism to prevent pooling of secretions, central cough suppression with codeine could increase the probability of secondary infections. Furthermore, evidence suggests that use of codeine does not have any added benefits over placebo.

**G - Oral acetylcysteine** - Patients who produce thick sputum (e.g., due to cystic fibrosis or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) may benefit from administration of oral acetylcysteine as an adjunct mucolytic therapy. However, this patient does not have a productive cough, nor does she have symptoms of obstructive airway disease (e.g., wheezing, dyspnea).

