### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Prednisone and albuterol** - A short course of corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone) for 4–7 days is used to reduce airway inflammation and improve airflow in patients with COPD. Corticosteroids, however, have a delayed onset of action (6–8 hours). Therefore, a nebulization of a short-acting β2 agonist (e.g., albuterol) with or without a short-acting anticholinergic bronchodilator (e.g., ipratropium) is recommended as the initial therapy to provide rapid relief to this woman with an acute exacerbation of COPD. In addition, a macrolide antibiotic given for 4–7 days can reduce the duration and severity of the exacerbation.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Roflumilast and prednisone** - A short course of prednisone is indicated in a patient with an AECOPD. Roflumilast, however, is used as maintenance therapy to prevent acute exacerbations in patients with severe COPD.

**B - Albuterol and montelukast** - Short-acting β2 agonists such as albuterol are used to treat an AECOPD. However, leukotriene receptor antagonists such as montelukast are not used to treat COPD. They are instead used to treat aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease and bronchial asthma.

**C - Prednisone and salmeterol** - A β2 agonist and a short course of prednisone are indicated in a patient with an AECOPD. However, a short-acting β2 agonist with a relatively rapid onset of action is preferred over a long-acting β2 agonist such as salmeterol to provide acute relief to the patient. Long-acting β2 agonists are instead used as maintenance therapy in COPD, which is supposed to reduce the risk of future exacerbations.

**D - Albuterol and theophylline** - Short-acting β2 agonists such as albuterol are used to treat an acute exacerbation of COPD. However, methylxanthines such as theophylline are not recommended for treating an acute exacerbation of COPD because methylxanthines have a narrow therapeutic index and can have significant adverse effects such as cardiac arrhythmias and/or CNS excitation (e.g., headache, irritability, seizures). The risk of cardiac arrhythmias is especially concerning because patients with COPD often have comorbid cardiovascular disease (cor pulmonale), which increases the baseline risk of arrhythmias.

**F - Prednisone and tiotropium** - A short-acting antimuscarinic bronchodilator (e.g., ipratropium) and a short course of prednisone can be used to treat an AECOPD. Tiotropium, however, has a delayed onset of action. It is therefore used as maintenance therapy in COPD, which is supposed to prevent future exacerbations rather than treat an acute exacerbation.

