### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Ludwig angina** - Ludwig angina is a rare and often fatal soft-tissue infection (a form of cellulitis) of the neck and floor of the mouth, which is known for aggressively progressing and compromising the airways. The condition is often caused by odontogenic infection, and diabetes mellitus is a predisposing factor. The patient has a molar infection along with fever, dysphagia, and swelling of the submandibular and anterior portion of the neck, which suggests the infection has spread from the molar towards the submandibular and sublingual space. If not treated promptly with IV antibiotics (e.g., meropenem or piperacillin tazobactam), airway control, and surgical drainage, it can be fatal.

Image File: 1461-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59de9d3fbf80b.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Angioedema** - The patient is currently taking lisinopril – a drug known to cause angioedema – and presents with swelling and dysphagia. However, his eyes, lips, and tongue would also be affected. Additionally, the fever, infected molar, and tenderness would not be expected.

Image File: 1461-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91eda083.jpg

**B - Lymphadenitis** - The patient did have a sore throat 4 weeks ago, but any associated lymphadenitis should have already subsided. While the odontogenic infection may predispose to lymphadenitis, the dysphagia and swelling of the anterior neck cannot be explained solely on the basis of this diagnosis.

**C - Peritonsillar abscess** - Peritonsillar abscess most commonly occurs as a complication of recurrent tonsillitis. Although the patient did have a sore throat 4 weeks ago, peritonsillar abscess is a more acute illness. Additionally, peritonsillar abscess is not associated with an odontogenic infection as is seen in this patient. Furthermore, in peritonsillar abscess, examination of the oral cavity would show a collection of pus in the peritonsillar area and possible uvula deviation, which are not described in this patient.

**D - Sublingual hematoma** - Sublingual hematoma is bleeding and swelling that occurs under the tongue, especially after oral or dental surgery. It is especially common in people with bleeding disorders or those undergoing anticoagulant therapy. The oral examination of the patient shows only an odontogenic infection, and he does not have any of the risk factors listed above for a sublingual hematoma. In addition, the fever and the raised WBC count would make this diagnosis unlikely.

