### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Bronchopulmonary dysplasia** - Bronchopulmonary dysplasia due to barotrauma and oxygen toxicity is a complication of prolonged mechanical ventilation in premature infants, such as this patient. This neonate demonstrates the classic presentation of BPD, which includes persistent tachypnea, labored breathing (intercostal and subcostal retractions), FiO2 > 30% to maintain peripheral saturation > 90%, and diffuse granular densities with basal atelectasis on x-ray. Later in the disease course, interspersed cystic areas and diffuse hyperinflation of the lung can develop. Treatment of BPD primarily focuses on limiting oxygen toxicity and preventing complications (specifically pneumothorax, cardiovascular collapse, and neonatal sepsis).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Tracheomalacia** - Tracheomalacia may be present in this infant as a result of prolonged intubation and the development of chronic lung disease. While tracheomalacia can also cause respiratory distress, the presenting symptoms here are not consistent with the wheezing and stridor typically seen with tracheomalacia. Moreover, the reported oxygen saturation of 91% on 40% oxygen represents significant hypoxemia; it would be unusual for tracheomalacia alone to cause this degree of desaturation. Also, tracheomalacia would not explain this patient's x-ray findings.

**B - Pneumonia** - This neonate has several risk factors for the development of pneumonia, including prematurity and prolonged intubation. Although aspects of his clinical presentation are consistent with pneumonia (e.g., hypoxemia and tachypnea), key cardinal features are absent, such as fever, cough (especially a productive cough), or typical x-ray findings of a lobar process. This patient's x-ray findings are more indicative of a different condition.

**D - Interstitial emphysema** - In neonates, strong risk factors for the development of interstitial emphysema are prematurity and prolonged intubation, both of which are present here. The clinical presentation is extremely variable and can range from asymptomatic to severe hypoxemia secondary to compression of vital cardiopulmonary structures. In these severe cases, complications such as pneumomediastinum or pneumothorax are sometimes present. Typical x-ray findings include cystic radiolucencies in the interstitium radiating from the lung hila rather than the diffuse granular densities and basal atelectasis seen in this patient, making this diagnosis unlikely.

**E - Bronchiolitis obliterans** - Bronchiolitis obliterans (BO) is classically seen in pediatric patients with a history of severe lung infection, especially adenovirus pneumonia. It is a possible cause of respiratory distress in a child and x-ray findings are often nonspecific. Most often, however, the presentation of BO is vague, consisting of coughing, wheezing, and shortness of breath. Although the pathophysiology is not entirely understood, symptoms commonly develop over years. BO would be unlikely in this 5-week-old patient with no history of significant infection.

