### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Nasopharyngeal carcinoma** - EBV infection is associated with the development of multiple malignancies, including nasopharyngeal carcinoma, Burkitt lymphoma, and Hodgkin lymphoma. Nasopharyngeal carcinoma typically manifests with epistaxis, painless cervical lymphadenopathy, and recurrent otitis media.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Rheumatic fever** - Rheumatic fever may occur as a complication of group A streptococcal tonsillopharyngitis and typically affects individuals 5–15 years of age within 2–4 weeks of infection. Although this patient has a sore throat, pharyngeal erythema, enlarged tonsils, cervical lymphadenopathy, and a history of recurrent streptococcal pharyngitis, she also presents with splenomegaly and has a positive heterophile agglutination test, which indicates IM.

**B - Pneumonia** - Pneumonia is a potential complication of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection, particularly for immunocompromised individuals (e.g., posttransplantation, individuals with HIV infection). CMV infection can cause a mononucleosis-like syndrome (CMV mononucleosis), which can also manifest with fever, malaise, fatigue, sore throat, cervical lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, and lymphocytosis. However, in CMV mononucleosis, a heterophile agglutination test would be negative.

**C - Intracranial calcifications** - Intracranial calcifications, a finding on imaging, can occur in the context of aging or in association with certain diseases (e.g., toxoplasmosis). Cerebral toxoplasmosis is a potential complication of toxoplasmosis, but it affects immunocompromised patients (esp. AIDS patients) and is not characterized by intracranial calcifications.

**D - Kaposi sarcoma** - Kaposi sarcoma is caused by the human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8), not EBV (human herpesvirus 4, HHV-4), and it typically occurs in individuals with HIV infection. While acute HIV infection and IM are difficult to distinguish clinically, this patient's pharyngeal erythema and exudative enlarged tonsils favor a diagnosis of IM, which is confirmed by a positive heterophile agglutination test.

**F - Necrotizing retinitis** - Necrotizing retinitis is a potential complication of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection, particularly for immunocompromised individuals (e.g., patients with HIV infection, posttransplantation). CMV infection can cause a mononucleosis-like syndrome (CMV mononucleosis), which can also manifest with fever, malaise, fatigue, sore throat, cervical lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, and lymphocytosis. However, in CMV mononucleosis, a heterophile agglutination test would be negative.

**G - Glomerulonephritis** - Poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis may occur as a complication of group A streptococcal tonsillopharyngitis and typically manifests 10–30 days following infection. Although this patient has a sore throat, pharyngeal erythema, enlarged tonsils, cervical lymphadenopathy, and a history of recurrent streptococcal pharyngitis, she also presents with splenomegaly and has a positive heterophile agglutination test, which indicates IM.

