### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Long-term oxygen therapy** - The development of pulmonary hypertension in COPD is mainly due to hypoxic vasoconstriction in the pulmonary arteries. Therefore, in patients with COPD, continuous oxygen therapy for a minimum of 16 hours/day improves life expectancy and helps to control pulmonary hypertension. It is indicated in all COPD patients with hypoxemia (i.e., PaO2 ≤ 55 mm Hg or SaO2 ≤ 88% at rest) and in those with a PaO2 of 55–60 mm Hg if there is evidence of pulmonary hypertension, congestive heart failure, or polycythemia. Although supplemental oxygen can worsen hypercapnia, smoking cessation and oxygen therapy are the only interventions proven to prolong the survival of patients with COPD.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Pneumococcal vaccination** - Pneumococcal vaccination reduces the incidence of community-acquired pneumonia and invasive pneumococcal diseases in patients with COPD. Together with the annual influenza vaccination, it is recommended in all patients with COPD. Both vaccinations can help reduce exacerbations, as infections are a common cause of exacerbations in COPD. Although these vaccinations prevent complications of COPD, there is a different intervention that is proven to prolong survival in patients with COPD.

**C - Sildenafil therapy** - Sildenafil is a phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor that is commonly used to treat erectile dysfunction. It is also used as pulmonary vasodilator therapy in vasoreactive forms of PH to decrease pulmonary vascular resistance. However, this therapy aims to mitigate the symptoms of PH and has not been shown to prolong survival in patients with COPD.

**D - Respiratory physiotherapy** - Respiratory physiotherapy and pulmonary rehabilitation (e.g., breathing exercises such as pursed lip breathing) can improve pulmonary function, decrease symptoms of COPD, and decrease the risk of hospitalization. However, respiratory physiotherapy does not prolong survival in COPD patients.

**E - Positive airway pressure therapy at night** - Noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation (NIPPV) uses positive air pressure to keep airways open and support breathing. Long-term nocturnal NIPPV is indicated in patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and can also be useful in patients with COPD who also have OSA and/or chronic hypercapnia. It is used for the treatment of acute respiratory distress in patients with, e.g., acute COPD exacerbation, severe pneumonia, and cardiogenic pulmonary edema. However, this patient has no history of OSA and NIPPV has not been shown to prolong survival in patients with isolated COPD.

