### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Ventilation with positive end-expiratory pressure** - Ventilation with positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) provides positive pressure to the lungs, which reduces alveolar collapse by stenting open the airways. Intra-operative ventilation with PEEP increases alveolar pressure, alveolar volume, and pulmonary compliance, thereby reducing the risk of postoperative atelectasis. Postoperatively, PEEP can be introduced with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) or incentive spirometry.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Elevation of the head of the bed to 30° after surgery** - Elevation of the head of the bed to 30° postoperatively reduces the risk of aspiration pneumonia, which presents with tachypnea, dullness to percussion, and opacification on chest x-ray, most commonly the right lung. However, while surgery is a risk factor for developing aspiration pneumonia, additional symptoms (e.g., fever, cough, purulent sputum production) would be expected. Moreover, aspiration pneumonia is not associated with a decrease in tactile fremitus because pneumonia causes a dense consolidation, which increases tactile fremitus.

**B - Additional dose of bronchodilators before and after surgery** - Patients with COPD may need additional doses of an inhaled rapid-acting beta-agonist (e.g., albuterol) before and after surgery to prevent postoperative bronchospasm, which is more common in patients with COPD. However, bronchospasm is not associated with tachypnea, diminished breath sounds, or dullness to percussion. Moreover, bronchospasm is usually associated with wheezing and coughing, which are not seen in this patient.

**D - Stopping intravenous morphine** - Although intravenous opiates can increase the risk of respiratory depression, thereby increasing the risk of pulmonary complications, this patient is tachypneic, so it is not necessary to stop morphine at this time. Additionally, optimal postoperative pain control allows the patient to practice deep breathing, which keeps the lungs expanded and helps to prevent atelectasis.

**E - Subcutaneous injections of low-molecular-weight heparin** - Injections of low-molecular-weight heparin are used to prevent postoperative deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE). Patients with PE may present with tachypnea, hypoxemia, and a wedge-shaped opacity on chest x-ray. However, CT pulmonary angiography in a patient with PE would demonstrate filling defects, which are not seen here. Moreover, DVT and PE generally occur on postoperative day five, while this patient is on postoperative day one.

