### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Positron emission tomography** - The evaluation of an incidental solitary solid pulmonary nodule involves an assessment of the nodule's risk for malignancy. Radiologic factors that increase the risk for malignancy include large nodule size (> 8 mm), location in the upper lung fields, and irregular, spiculated, or scalloped borders. Clinical risk factors for malignancy include age > 40 years, history of smoking or asbestos exposure, and a positive family or personal history of malignancy. This patient's nodule has an intermediate risk for malignancy. Accordingly, further evaluation is recommended. Positron emission tomography (PET) can determine if the nodule is metabolically active. FDG-avid nodules should undergo biopsy for histopathologic examination. FDG-nonavid nodules should be surveilled with a follow-up CT scan. Alternatively, patients with intermediate- or high-risk nodules can proceed directly to biopsy.

If a biopsy specimen is needed for further evaluation, a transbronchial biopsy should be conducted for this patient's centrally-located lesion. In the case of a peripherally-located lesion, a CT-guided transcutaneous biopsy is preferred.

Image File: 1474-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6006682e19473.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Antituberculous therapy** - Antituberculous therapy is used to treat pulmonary tuberculosis. Infectious granulomas (e.g., due to tuberculosis or histoplasmosis) are responsible for the majority of benign solitary pulmonary nodules. Though this patient's nodule may be caused by tuberculosis, further evaluation (e.g., tuberculin skin test, IFN-γ release assay) is required at this time prior to initiating any specific therapy.

**C - Follow-up chest x-ray in 12 months** - A follow-up chest x-ray is not appropriate for re-evaluating an incidental solitary solid pulmonary nodule; the best imaging modality for follow-up is a CT scan.

**D - Follow-up CT scan in 12 months** - A follow-up CT scan in 12 months is the most appropriate next step in management for an incidental solitary solid pulmonary nodule that is 6–8 mm in size. However, this patient has a 10-mm pulmonary nodule that has an intermediate risk for malignancy.

**E - Surgical resection** - Surgical resection with histopathologic examination of tissue can yield a definitive diagnosis of a pulmonary nodule and can be curative in the case of malignancy. However, the benefits of this procedure must be weighed against the risks; oftentimes, a less invasive procedure (e.g., biopsy) or radiologic evaluation may be preferable. Surgical resection is typically reserved for large lesions (> 30 mm) or smaller lesions with concerning features based on other modalities that assess risk. Surgical resection may be needed after additional evaluation of this patient, who has a 10-mm incidental solitary solid pulmonary nodule with intermediate risk, but it is not the most appropriate next step at this time.

**F - Reassurance** - Reassurance without further evaluation is appropriate for incidental solitary solid pulmonary nodules that have a low risk for malignancy. It is not appropriate for this patient, who has a 10-mm solid pulmonary nodule with intermediate risk for malignancy.

