### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Endotracheal intubation** - This patient has a severe asthma exacerbation unresponsive to medications. His difficulties speaking, altered mental state, use of accessory muscles (indicating worsening respiratory fatigue), and rising Pco2 (≥ 42 mm Hg) are concerning for impending respiratory failure and, therefore, indications for endotracheal intubation. Patients with acute asthma exacerbation generally initially present with respiratory alkalosis (decreased Pco2) due to tachypnea. With worsening airway obstruction and increasing respiratory fatigue, Pco2 increases and pH decreases. The absence of wheezing is also a clue regarding the severity of his condition: wheezing is not heard because there is not enough air movement to generate it. He should be intubated urgently and moved to the intensive care unit.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Intravenous theophylline therapy** - Theophylline is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor with anti-inflammatory and bronchodilatory effects used in the chronic treatment of COPD and asthma. It can be used as an adjunctive therapy in acute asthma exacerbations, although it has not been shown to be effective and is no longer considered standard therapy. Additionally, it has narrow therapeutic index and risk of adverse effects is increased when combined with beta-agonist bronchodilators.

**C - Continuous albuterol nebulizer therapy** - Continuous inhaled albuterol nebulizer therapy is a first-line treatment for moderate to severe asthma exacerbations. This patient has not responded to three rounds of albuterol and his disorientation, use of accessory muscles, and high/normal Pco2 are signs of respiratory fatigue and impending respiratory failure. Additional albuterol is unlikely to benefit this patient.

**D - Intravenous magnesium sulfate therapy** - Intravenous magnesium sulfate can be used as an adjunctive therapy in acute asthma exacerbations that do not respond to multiple rounds of inhaled bronchodilators (such as albuterol), anticholinergics, steroids, and supplemental oxygen. However, this patient's disorientation, use of accessory muscles, and high/normal Pco2 are signs of a condition that warrants a more urgent intervention, which should not be delayed by administration of magnesium sulfate.

**E - Intramuscular epinephrine therapy** - Intramuscular epinephrine therapy is appropriate for patients with anaphylaxis, which can also cause dyspnea due to upper airway edema and bronchospasm. However, anaphylaxis is usually associated with other systemic symptoms such as urticaria, hypotension, nausea, vomiting, and/or angioedema. This patient presents with an acute asthma exacerbation, and epinephrine injections are not indicated.

**F - Inhaled helium-oxygen mixture** - Inhaled helium-oxygen mixture (heliox) can improve the delivery of supplemental oxygen in the setting of airway obstruction. However, this patient's disorientation, use of accessory muscles, and high/normal Pco2 are signs of impending respiratory failure that warrant a more urgent intervention.

**G - Flexible bronchoscopy** - Bronchoscopy has many diagnostic and therapeutic indications, including suspicion of airway obstruction (e.g., from aspiration, localized edema, mass, etc). While airway obstruction could also cause acute dyspnea, stridor would be expected. This patient's history and presentation is consistent with a severe asthma exacerbation for which bronchoscopy would not be helpful.

