### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Bronchogenic carcinoma** - Bronchogenic carcinoma is the most common malignant pulmonary tumor in patients with asbestosis and the second most common carcinoma worldwide. This patient has two important risk factors, namely a smoking history and a history of asbestos exposure. The first symptom of bronchogenic carcinoma is usually a cough, although hemoptysis, dyspnea and chest pain can also occur. Asbestosis is the main cause of mesothelioma, which rarely occurs without a history of asbestos exposure. However, bronchogenic carcinoma is still vastly more common than mesothelioma, even in people with a history of asbestos exposure.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Thyroid carcinoma** - The risk of thyroid carcinoma is increased after neck radiation or in patients with MEN2 syndrome. Asbestosis is not a known risk factor for thyroid carcinoma.

**B - Tuberculosis** - Tuberculosis occurs more frequently in patients with silicosis. The main presenting symptom in silicosis is dyspnea and a cough, as in this patient. However, chest x-ray would typically show eggshell calcifications and bilateral diffuse ground glass opacities, which are both absent here.

**C - Sarcoidosis** - Sarcoidosis is not associated with asbestosis, but rather with beryllium exposure.

Image File: 1477-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94ec0143.jpg

**D - Mesothelioma** - Asbestosis is the main etiological factor of mesothelioma, which rarely occurs without a history of asbestos exposure. Although the risk of mesothelioma is markedly increased in this patient, another complication is more likely to arise.

Image File: 1477-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d906d05cd.jpg

