### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Add a proton pump inhibitor** - This patient's persistent cough and substernal chest pain are consistent with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), for which obesity is a risk factor. GERD is a known trigger of asthma and associated with difficult-to-treat disease. It is thought to worsen asthma as a result of chronic microaspiration of stomach contents into the upper airways as well as an increase in vagal tone. Asthma that worsens while laying down or after meals is concerning for GERD-induced disease. Since this patient has only had a partial response to her recently initiated asthma medication, a trial of empiric therapy with a proton pump inhibitor is the most appropriate next step in management.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Order a transthoracic echocardiogram** - A transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) may be considered to evaluate underlying cardiac pathologies. This patient's recurring chest pain, exertional dyspnea, and cough exacerbation when lying supine are possible symptoms of heart failure and lung edema. In some cases, severe mitral valve stenosis may lead to hoarseness due to recurrent laryngeal nerve damage by an enlarged left atrium. However, further signs and symptoms of heart failure such as peripheral pitting edema, increased jugular venous distention, nocturia, and tachycardia would be expected at this point. Moreover, except for obesity, this patient has no risk factors for heart disease (e.g., history of smoking, rheumatic fever, or hypertension), making a different etiology of her symptoms more likely.

**B - Add a salmeterol inhaler** - Salmeterol is a long-acting beta agonist that is used in the management of moderate chronic asthma. Salmeterol would be a reasonable next step in the escalation of her asthma therapy because this patient currently uses a short-acting beta agonist and a corticosteroid inhaler. However, other comorbidities that potentially worsen asthma should be treated before escalating asthma therapy.

**C - Add oral prednisone** - Oral prednisone is used to treat acute asthma exacerbations or severe, therapy-refractory chronic asthma. This patient does not present with acute dyspnea and wheezing, which makes an acute asthma exacerbation unlikely. In addition, her FEV1 of 78% of predicted indicates moderate asthma severity, which does not warrant an oral corticosteroid therapy.

**E - Perform methacholine challenge test** - The methacholine challenge test is used in suspected asthma when pulmonary function tests are inconclusive. This test has a high negative predictive value and is particularly useful for ruling out asthma as a potential diagnosis. This patient's symptoms have been partially responsive to asthma medication and her FEV1 is < 80% of expected, which is consistent with asthma. Therefore, a methacholine challenge test would be superfluous because this patient’s asthma diagnosis has already been confirmed.

**F - Order total serum IgE levels** - IgE antibodies are involved in type I hypersensitivity reactions, such as allergic asthma, and they can be used as a diagnostic tool. However, this patient shows no signs of symptoms of allergic asthma (e.g., asthma triggered by allergens, such as dust or pollen; a history of atopy) and, therefore, measurement of serum IgE levels is not indicated at this time.

