### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Palivizumab** - Palivizumab is a short-acting monoclonal antibody that provides passive immunity to bronchiolitis caused by RSV. It functions by binding to RSV and inhibiting fusion and uptake of the virus into cells. According to current guidelines, it is only recommended for infants at risk for severe bronchiolitis (e.g., those with prematurity, heart or lung disease). This patient presented with the classic features of RSV bronchiolitis, was born prematurely, and had bronchopulmonary dysplasia, fulfilling the criteria for palivizumab prophylaxis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ribavirin** - Ribavirin is an antiviral synthetic nucleoside analog that can be used to treat RSV. It is currently not recommended for routine treatment, and should only be considered for immunocompromised patients, which this patient was not.

**B - Postnatal glucocorticoid** - Postnatal glucocorticoid therapy has been shown to improve outcomes with regards to bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) for infants born prematurely. However, it has also been shown to have short and long-term adverse effects, including hyperglycemia, hypertension, GI bleeding, and possibly an increase in the risk of cerebral palsy and other neurological disabilities. The revised 2010 American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) guidelines therefore recommend against its use in preventing BPD. It may be considered in infants with severe BPD who require persistent ventilatory support, which was not the case in this child.

**C - Ceftriaxone** - Ceftriaxone is a 3rd-generation cephalosporin, a β-lactam antibiotic that inhibits bacterial cell wall synthesis. It is used in the treatment of bacterial infections like meningitis and disseminated Lyme disease. Bronchiolitis is usually caused by a virus (RSV), not bacteria, rendering ceftriaxone ineffective in this case.

**D - Respiratory syncytial virus immune globulin** - Respiratory syncytial virus immune globulin is a polyclonal immune globulin formerly used in the prophylaxis of RSV infection. As a blood product prepared from donor serum, it had the potential to be contaminated. Its use was also associated with increased morbidity and mortality in patients with congenital heart disease. For these reasons, it was replaced by a safer alternative and is no longer available.

