### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Incision and drainage with intravenous ampicillin-sulbactam therapy** - Peritonsillar abscess (PTA) is the most common deep neck infection in adolescents and young adults. The disease is caused by bacterial spread from an acute bacterial tonsillitis into the potential space between the tonsil and the pharyngeal muscles. It is usually a clinical diagnosis. Treatment in younger, less cooperative, patients consists of incision and drainage combined with IV antibiotics (e.g., ampicillin-sulbactam).

Image File: 1481-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57c0156865b07.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous dexamethasone therapy** - There is inconsistent evidence regarding the efficacy of intravenous dexamethasone, a glucocorticoid, in the treatment of peritonsillar abscess. For this reason, the use of corticosteroids is not routinely recommended.

**B - Tonsillectomy** - Indications for tonsillectomy include obstruction of the airway or swallowing pathway by the tonsils as well as chronic or complicated infections. If surgery is indicated, though, it is usually performed after resolution of an acute infection. This patient is acutely ill and shows no signs of respiratory distress. Additionally, she has no history of recurrent tonsillitis or peritonsillar abscess.

**C - Incision and drainage** - Incision and drainage are recommended in patients with peritonsillar abscess and therefore also indicated in this patient, but they should always be combined with systemic antimicrobial therapy.

**E - Needle aspiration and oral clindamycin therapy** - Needle aspiration can often be performed in an outpatient setting with topical anesthesia and is therefore often well-tolerated. Because it requires patient cooperation, the procedure is usually not the first choice in younger children such as this patient and is reserved for pediatric patients that cannot undergo general surgery. Additionally, patients should initially receive intravenous antibiotic therapy.

**F - Intravenous ampicillin-sulbactam therapy** - Ampicillin with sulbactam is used to treat bacterial infections such as intra-abdominal infections, gynecological infections, and deep neck infections (e.g., peritonsillar abscess). While intravenous ampicillin-sulbactam is certainly indicated, antibiotic treatment alone is not sufficient to treat this patient.

