### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Excess collagen deposition in the extracellular matrix of the lung** - Excess collagen deposition in the extracellular matrix of the lung is the underlying mechanism of this patient's interstitial lung disease. Diffuse thickening of the alveolar walls results in progressive fibrosis of the lung parenchyma, which in turn causes reduced vital capacity, and the dyspnea, chronic dry cough, and fatigue seen in this patient. While most cases are idiopathic (i.e., idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis), this patient's exposure to amiodarone is the most likely cause.

Image File: 1483-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60ad29c9ddebf.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Malignant neoplasm of the bronchus** - Malignant neoplasm of the bronchus (i.e., bronchogenic carcinoma) is an important differential diagnosis in patients with an extensive smoking history (45 pack years) presenting with a chronic cough, dyspnea, fatigue, and nail clubbing. However, unlike the CT scan findings in this patient, a unilateral nodule or mass would be expected.

Image File: 1483-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59b93577a86a1.jpg

**B - Increased pressure in the pulmonary arteries** - Increased pressure in the pulmonary arteries is seen in pulmonary hypertension, which is often asymptomatic but may manifest as dyspnea, fatigue, and nail clubbing, as seen in this patient. It also results in symptoms of cor pulmonale (e.g., chest pain and peripheral edema), which are absent in this patient. Unlike the CT scan findings in this patient, enlargement of the pulmonary trunk and arteries is typically evident in this condition.

**C - Chronic airway inflammation** - Chronic airway inflammation and obstruction is the underlying mechanism of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which manifests with a persistent cough, dyspnea, and fatigue and is common in smokers. However, unlike the CT scan findings in this patient, alveolar septum destruction is evident in emphysema and bronchial wall thickening and enlarged vessels in chronic bronchitis.

**D - Bronchial hyperresponsiveness and obstruction** - Bronchial hyperresponsiveness and obstruction is the underlying mechanism of asthma, which can also present with fatigue and dry cough. However, chest auscultation in patients with asthma typically reveals end-expiratory wheezes and clubbing is not typical. Radiographic imaging would show pulmonary hyperinflation (low, flattened diaphragm, wide intercostal spaces) rather than alveolar fibrosis.

**E - Fluid leak into the interstitium and alveoli** - Fluid leak into the interstitium and alveoli is the underlying mechanism of pulmonary edema, which can present with dyspnea, cough, fatigue, and crackles on chest auscultation, as seen in this patient. However, unlike the chronic course of this patient's illness, pulmonary edema typically has an acute presentation, with dyspnea that worsens in a supine position and signs of increased sympathetic tone (sweating, tachycardia). Furthermore, a CT scan would show perihilar pulmonary edema, basilar edema, and possibly Kerley B lines.

Image File: 1483-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fd8c6b0afdfb.jpg

**F - Pleural scarring** - Pleural scarring can occur as a consequence of benign pleural diseases (e.g., recurrent inflammation, recurrent pneumothoraces, asbestosis), or malignant pleural diseases (e.g., mesothelioma). Pleural diseases may present with exertional dyspnea and cough, as seen in this patient. However, unlike the CT scan findings in this patient, pleural thickening is typically evident in these conditions.

