### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - E** - Postoperative atelectasis is one of the most common pulmonary complications in the first 72 hours after surgery. Intraoperative absorption atelectasis (due to general anesthesia) and compression atelectasis (especially in chest and abdominal surgery) decrease lung volume and, therefore, lung compliance. In addition, this patient's inadequately controlled postoperative pain discourages deep breathing and coughing, leading to decreased ventilation of the lung bases (decreased V/Q ratio, i.e., V/Q mismatch) and alveolar hypoxia. To compensate for the resulting hypoxemia (PaO2 < 75 mm Hg), hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction is triggered and the patient hyperventilates, which may cause respiratory alkalosis, as seen here (pH > 7.45, PaCO2 < 33 mm Hg). Postoperative atelectasis cannot be improved by 100% O2 delivery; instead, alveolar recruitment needs to be facilitated using adequate analgesia and lung expansion maneuvers.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - Decreased serum pH with hypoxemia, hypercapnia, and low HCO3- suggests combined respiratory acidosis and metabolic acidosis, which can be seen in advanced acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). With disease progression, patients with ARDS may develop hypercapnic respiratory failure due to respiratory exhaustion, which leads to respiratory acidosis. Concurrent metabolic acidosis typically results from underlying sepsis.

**B - B** - Decreased serum pH and hypercapnia suggest respiratory acidosis, which can result from acute hypoventilation due to general anesthesia (e.g., respiratory muscle paralysis, sedative overdose) or pneumonia (e.g., aspiration pneumonia). Chronic causes of respiratory acidosis include airway obstruction (e.g., COPD, asthma) and decreased respiratory nerve/muscle function (e.g., poliomyelitis, Guillain-Barré syndrome). Although this patient's zonal opacifications seen on chest x-ray are consistent with pneumonia, fever and increased tactile fremitus would also be expected.

**C - C** - Decreased serum pH and low HCO3- suggest metabolic acidosis, which can occur during or after surgery and manifest with an elevated anion gap (e.g., lactic acidosis due to tissue hypoperfusion) or a normal anion gap (e.g., excessive saline infusion). Concurrent hypocapnia indicates respiratory compensation, which raises the pH without completely normalizing it. This patient has postoperative atelectasis and is likely hyperventilating, which can lead to hypocapnia. However, the atelectasis seen here is not a mechanism of respiratory compensation but more likely a primary cause for an acid-base disturbance.

**D - D** - Increased pH with hypocapnia indicates respiratory alkalosis. Combined with hyperoxemia, this arterial blood gas analysis finding suggests mechanical ventilation with an inappropriately high FiO2 and tidal volume as the most likely etiology.

