### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Acute respiratory distress syndrome** - Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is an inflammatory syndrome characterized by endothelial damage and increased alveolar-capillary permeability, which leads to pulmonary edema and impaired gas exchange. This patient presents with features of acute pancreatitis, which can cause ARDS by triggering a massive release of proinflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-1, TNF-α). Primary findings of ARDS include hypoxemic respiratory failure and a PO2/FiO2 ratio of ≤ 300 due to V/Q mismatch. A PO2/FiO2 ratio of 150, which is seen in this patient, is categorized as moderate ARDS. Chest x-ray typically shows diffuse bilateral infiltrates (“butterfly pattern”).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pulmonary embolism** - Pulmonary embolism (PE) can manifest with dyspnea, tachypnea, and tachycardia, which are seen in this patient. Since immobilized patients are at increased risk for DVT, PE should be considered in hospitalized patients presenting with acute respiratory distress. However, tachypneic patients with PE would likely present with respiratory alkalosis, not the respiratory acidosis seen in this patient. Furthermore, chest x-ray is usually normal in PE or shows nonspecific signs (e.g., increased vascular markings).

**B - Aspiration pneumonia** - Aspiration pneumonia primarily occurs in patients with a predisposition to aspiration, such as those with altered mental status or dysphagia. Although patients with alcohol use disorder are at increased risk of developing aspiration pneumonia, which has an indolent course and involves dependent pulmonary segments, this patient's rapid respiratory deterioration, clinical features of acute pancreatitis, and chest x-ray findings (bilateral opacities in the lower lung fields) suggest another diagnosis.

**C - Hospital-acquired pneumonia** - Gram-negative bacteria such as Klebsiella, Enterobacteriaceae, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa are a common cause of hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP). By definition, HAP occurs at least 48 hours after admission. Patients develop dyspnea, tachypnea, fever, and leukocytosis. This patient's rapid respiratory deterioration 12 hours after this admission rules out HAP.

**E - Congestive heart failure** - Cardiogenic pulmonary edema due to acute decompensated heart failure can manifest with rapid respiratory deterioration and bilateral opacities on chest x-ray, which are seen in this patient. Fluid resuscitation may cause pulmonary edema in patients with a compromised ejection fraction, for which alcohol use disorder is a risk factor. However, the absence of clinical features related to heart failure (e.g., ventricular gallop, distended jugular veins) makes cardiogenic pulmonary edema unlikely in this patient.

**F - Hepatic hydrothorax** - Hepatic hydrothorax can manifest with dyspnea, nonproductive cough, and pleuritic chest pain. Chest x-ray reveals a blunted costophrenic angle due to pleural effusion, which is typically right-sided and rarely bilateral. Although this patient's alcohol use disorder puts him at increased risk of developing liver cirrhosis, he lacks signs of chronic liver disease (e.g., jaundice, ascites, spider angioma). In combination with acute pancreatitis, his acute respiratory deterioration and bilateral opacities on chest x-ray suggest another etiology.

