### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Monitoring** - Most patients with isolated pulmonary sarcoidosis do not require treatment, as the disease is often asymptomatic and nonprogressive with a high rate of spontaneous remission. This patient has already received a thorough initial evaluation, including a TST, chest x-ray, ECG, and ophthalmologic examination. Pulmonary function testing would also be appropriate for this patient. There is a lack of data on the optimal frequency and type of monitoring for pulmonary sarcoidosis, but typical approaches include regular examination to assess symptoms and laboratory studies, including serum creatinine and calcium concentrations.

Image File: 1489-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dfa50e9a7d74.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - ANCA testing** - ANCA testing is important in the diagnostic workup for autoimmune vasculitides, including granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA), which can also cause bilateral lesions on chest x-ray. However, the lesions associated with GPA are typically cavitating nodules (not the bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy seen in this patient). Also, patients usually experience symptoms including chronic sinusitis, cough, and hematuria (from renal involvement).

**B - CT scan of the chest** - A CT scan of the chest is more sensitive than x-ray and can reveal abnormalities not visible on x-ray or provide greater detail. However, further imaging is unnecessary in this woman who is asymptomatic with x-ray findings that are classic for the disease she has.

**C - Lung biopsy** - A biopsy of affected tissue is the gold standard for diagnosing sarcoidosis. Histopathologic examination typically shows noncaseating granulomas with giant cells. However, patients who are asymptomatic with findings of bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy do not require biopsy, as the risks outweigh the benefits of establishing a definitive diagnosis. Additionally, less invasive methods (e.g., physical examination, laboratory studies, spirometry) are sufficient to monitor the disease.

**D - Oral methotrexate therapy** - Oral methotrexate therapy is a second-line treatment for patients with symptomatic pulmonary sarcoidosis (e.g., dyspnea, cough, chest pain) and patients with extrapulmonary manifestations (e.g., ocular or cutaneous symptoms) of sarcoidosis. However, this patient only has isolated, asymptomatic pulmonary sarcoidosis.

**E - Oral prednisone therapy** - Oral glucocorticoid therapy is the first-line treatment for patients with symptomatic (e.g., dyspnea, cough, chest pain) pulmonary sarcoidosis or extrapulmonary manifestations of sarcoidosis (e.g., ocular or cutaneous symptoms). Because this patient only has isolated, asymptomatic pulmonary sarcoidosis, oral glucocorticoid therapy is not indicated.

**F - Interferon-gamma release assay** - The interferon-gamma release assay (IGRA) tests for latent tuberculosis infection, which is important to rule out in patients undergoing evaluation for sarcoidosis. In general, IGRA has greater specificity than TST. However, patients with sarcoidosis have diminished skin reactivity, making the TST very specific (though less sensitive). Because this patient lacks pulmonary symptoms and a history indicating Tb, a negative TST is sufficient to exclude this diagnosis.

**H - Oral isoniazid monotherapy** - Patients with latent tuberculosis infection should receive oral isoniazid monotherapy for 9 months. However, this patient has a negative tuberculin skin test.

