### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Parainfluenza virus** - Parainfluenza virus is the most common causative organism of croup (75% of cases), the likely diagnosis here. Less common causative organisms include other airborne respiratory viruses, such as respiratory syncytial virus, adenovirus, and influenza virus. Although much less common than croup, laryngeal diphtheria can also manifest with a barking cough, so it would be important to ask about immunizations in this child.

Image File: 1490-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58aefe3cf1ae1.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Adenovirus** - Adenoviruses are responsible for a variety of respiratory, gastrointestinal, conjunctival, and other types of infections, especially in young children. Although croup, the likely diagnosis here, can be caused by adenoviruses in a minority of cases, a different causal organism is much more common.

**B - Influenza virus** - Influenza virus is responsible for annual seasonal flu outbreaks. Although croup, the likely diagnosis here, is caused by the influenza virus in a minority of cases, a different causal organism is much more common.

**C - Streptococcus pneumoniae** - Streptococcus pneumoniae is a common causative organism of bacterial pneumonia in all age groups. Although croup, the likely diagnosis here, can be complicated by secondary infection with Streptococcus pneumoniae, a different causal organism is much more common.

**D - Haemophilus influenzae** - Haemophilus influenzae is responsible for many bacterial infections in young children, including pneumonia, meningitis, and otitis media. Classically, it is also the cause of epiglottitis. But since the advent of the HiB vaccination, epiglottitis is increasingly caused by other organisms. Croup, the likely diagnosis here, can rarely be complicated by secondary infection with Haemophilus influenzae. Epiglottitis and croup both present with high fever and stridor. However, children with epiglottitis also have odynophagia and drooling, and those with croup do not. Furthermore, the characteristic barking cough of croup is not seen in epiglottitis. Epiglottitis also appears with supraglottic narrowing on x-ray (the thumbprint sign), in contrast to the infraglottic narrowing seen in croup (the steeple sign).

Image File: 1490-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60b8ddcf4235c.jpg

**F - Respiratory syncytial virus** - Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the most common causative organism of bronchiolitis and causes many other respiratory infections seen in young children, including viral pneumonia. Although croup, the likely diagnosis here, is caused by RSV in a minority of cases, a different causal organism is much more common.

**G - Measles morbillivirus** - Measles morbillivirus is the causative organism of measles, which primarily affects unvaccinated infants. Before the appearance of its maculopapular rash, measles classically manifests as an upper respiratory infection with a prodrome of “3 C's”: coryza, cough, and conjunctivitis, of which this child only has a cough. Koplik spots, also missing here, appear during the prodrome of measles and are pathognomic. This child's barking cough and stridor indicate laryngotracheal infection rather than measles.

Image File: 1490-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb90ff11db7d.jpg

