### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Pulmonary metastases** - Round nodules of varying sizes scattered throughout the lungs (“cannonball lesions”) suggest pulmonary metastases. Moreover, this patient reports that systemic symptoms (i.e., weight loss) preceded the onset of pulmonary symptoms (dyspnea, cough, hemoptysis) by several months, which should raise suspicion for a primary extrathoracic malignancy. Lung metastases occur in up to 50% of cancer patients, with breast, colorectal, and renal carcinomas among the most common primary tumors in adults. An extensive diagnostic workup (e.g., imaging, biopsy with histology and immunohistochemistry) should be initiated to identify this patient's primary malignancy.

Image File: 1495-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fec2afc5bb2a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Squamous cell lung carcinoma** - Squamous cell lung carcinoma can manifest with progressive dyspnea, cough, hemoptysis, and weight loss, all of which are seen in this patient. Moreover, this type of primary lung cancer is strongly associated with smoking. However, a chest x-ray would typically show a hilar mass and cavitation rather than the multiple, bilateral lesions seen here.

**B - Small cell lung cancer** - Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) can manifest with progressive dyspnea, cough, hemoptysis, and weight loss, all of which are seen in this patient. Moreover, this type of primary lung cancer is strongly associated with smoking. However, a chest x-ray would typically show a single central nodule rather than the multiple, bilateral lesions seen here. In addition, SCLC is commonly accompanied by paraneoplastic syndromes (e.g., syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, Cushing syndrome), which this patient does not have.

**C - Lung adenocarcinoma** - Lung adenocarcinoma, which is the most common type of primary lung cancer, can manifest with progressive dyspnea, cough, hemoptysis, and weight loss, all of which are seen in this patient. However, a chest x-ray would typically show a single peripheral nodule rather than the multiple, bilateral lesions seen here.

Image File: 1495-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_599c31f9091b7.jpg

**E - Pleural mesothelioma** - Pleural mesothelioma can manifest with progressive dyspnea, cough, and weight loss, all of which are seen in this patient. However, this type of malignancy almost exclusively occurs due to inhalational asbestos exposure, which this patient has not reported. Moreover, a chest x-ray would typically show pleural plaques and/or calcifications and unilateral pleural effusion rather than the multiple pulmonary lesions seen here.

Image File: 1495-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fec337eaf67f.jpg

