### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Pulmonary tuberculosis** - Productive coughing, fever, decreased appetite, night sweats, and hilar lymphadenopathy in this immunocompromised patient (HIV, alcoholism, IV drug abuse) with possible TB exposure (resident at a homeless shelter) are all suggestive of pulmonary tuberculosis. In addition, the pleuritic pain (sharp, stabbing) and unilateral lymphocyte-predominant exudative pleural effusion with high ADA levels are highly specific and sensitive markers for tuberculous pleurisy in HIV patients, which typically occurs concurrently with pulmonary tuberculosis. The analysis of sputum specimens via culture, microscopy, and PCR is the easiest and least invasive way to confirm suspected active pulmonary TB.

Image File: 1498-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e8c82296e9a2.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cirrhosis** - A history of alcoholism and IV drug use combined with a possible hepatitis infection puts the patient at high risk for cirrhosis, which can also cause pleural effusions, malaise, and decreased appetite. However, the absence of other signs of such as edema, jaundice, pruritus, and ascites, and the fact that the pleural effusion is exudative rather than transudative, make the diagnosis unlikely. Also, this patient did not have RUQ pain or a firm and enlarged liver, and his lab values (normal AST, ALT, AP) do not indicate hepatocellular damage. His slightly elevated GGT is likely due to his heavy alcohol consumption.

**B - Rheumatoid arthritis** - Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) may also present with exudative pleural effusions with lymphocytic predominance, fever, and pleuritic pain. However, it would be unusual to have pleural effusion as the first sign of RA; far more typical is joint pain and swelling. RA in AIDS patients is also quite rare.

**C - Infective endocarditis** - As an IV drug user, the patient is at high risk for infective endocarditis (IE), which may also present with fever, night sweats, decreased appetite, pleuritic chest pain, cough, and pleural effusions due to acute cardiac decompensation. However, pleural effusions would be transudative rather than exudative, and further signs of IE would be expected, such as a heart murmur, Janeway lesions, or signs of CHF (e.g., dyspnea, edema).

**D - Congestive heart failure** - Congestive heart failure can also cause pleural effusion and cough, and the history of drug use and HIV point to a possible etiology for CHF. However, the fever and night sweats (although they can be attributed to HIV itself), the normal cardiovascular examination, the exudative nature of the pleuritic fluid (typically transudates in CHF), and the absence of edema and CHF signs on chest x-ray make the diagnosis less likely.

**E - Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia** - In an HIV patient with pulmonary manifestations and poor compliance with HAART, PCP should be considered. However, PCP rarely causes pleural effusions, presenting instead with progressive dyspnea and diffuse, bilateral ground-glass opacities on chest x-ray. The majority of HIV patients only develop PCP when the CD4+ count is < 200 /mm3.

**F - Pulmonary embolism** - Pulmonary embolism (PE) can also cause exudative pleural effusions, pleuritic pain, and cough. Smoking is a significant risk factor for PE. However, PE usually has a very acute onset. Moreover, the absence of dyspnea, features of DVT (i.e., red, swollen, painful leg), and the normal oxygen saturation make the diagnosis less likely.

**G - Lung cancer** - Lung cancer can also involve pleural effusions, cough, and constitutional symptoms such as decreased appetite, night sweat and fever. While the history of smoking would be consistent with lung cancer, the patient's relatively young age, the acute onset, malignant cell-free pleural effusion, and the absence of suspicious masses on CXR all argue against this diagnosis.

