### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Pleural effusion** - This patient's decreased breath sounds and dullness to percussion over the left lung base suggest pleural effusion, which is characterized by the presence of liquid between the lung and thoracic cavity. The liquid increases the density of the thoracic cavity where the pleural effusion is located, resulting in dullness to percussion, and decreases the transmission of breath sounds, resulting in decreased breath sounds on auscultation. In this 62-year-old man with a 38 pack-year smoking history as well as a history of increased fatigue, dyspnea, chest pain, and dry cough, a malignant pleural effusion due to a pulmonary malignancy should be suspected.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pneumothorax** - Patients with pneumothorax may present with dyspnea, chest pain, and unilaterally decreased breath sounds on auscultation, all of which are seen here. However, pneumothorax typically has a more acute presentation and the chest wall would be hyperresonant rather than dull on percussion.

**B - Pulmonary edema** - Patients with pulmonary edema may present with dyspnea, cough, and dullness on percussion, all of which are seen here. However, bilateral fine or coarse crackles (depending on the severity of the edema) rather than unilateral decreased breath sounds would be heard on lung auscultation.

**D - Chronic bronchitis** - Patients with chronic bronchitis can present with worsening dyspnea and cough, both of which are seen here. In addition, this patient's smoking history increases the risk of developing this condition. However, pulmonary examination in chronic bronchitis typically shows hyperresonance on percussion as well as bilateral wheezing and rhonchi rather than unilateral decreased breath sounds on auscultation. Moreover, chronic bronchitis manifests with a productive rather than dry cough.

**E - Foreign body aspiration** - Foreign body aspiration can lead to atelectasis (due to airway obstruction) and may, therefore, manifest with dyspnea, chest pain, unilaterally decreased breath sounds on auscultation, and dullness to percussion, all of which are seen here. However, atelectasis typically manifests more acutely. Moreover, foreign body aspiration is rare in adults with intact cough and swallowing mechanisms.

**F - Pneumonia** - Patients with pneumonia may present with chest pain, dyspnea, and dullness to percussion, all of which are seen here. However, coarse crackles are also typically heard on lung auscultation. In addition, this patient does not have other characteristic features of pneumonia, such as a high fever and productive cough with purulent sputum.

Image File: 1499-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6009dd1c1b8d8.jpg

