### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Pull back endotracheal tube** - After intubation, it is important to confirm correct endotracheal tube placement by auscultating for bilateral breath sounds. Absent or decreased breath sounds on the left suggest inadvertent right mainstem bronchus intubation, which is more common than inadvertent left mainstem bronchus intubation because the right mainstem bronchus is more vertically oriented than the left mainstem bronchus at the bifurcation of the trachea. When this is suspected, the appropriate next step is to pull back the tube to the correct placement in the trachea, ∼ 2–6 cm above the carina. Other methods of confirming the correct placement of an ET tube include chest x-ray, end tidal CO2 measurement via capnography, and epigastric auscultation (gurgling suggests ET tube is in the GI tract).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Insert needle into the second intercostal space** - Needle decompression is used in the emergent management of tension pneumothorax, a potentially life-threatening condition that can rapidly lead to hemodynamic collapse from elevated intrathoracic pressures (by causing a drop in venous return and cardiac preload). Although tachycardia with asymmetric breath sounds should always raise concern for a tension pneumothorax, this patient is not hemodynamically unstable and does not have jugular venous distention, tracheal deviation, or subcutaneous emphysema to support this diagnosis.

**C - Insert chest tube into the fifth intercostal space** - Placement of a chest tube would be appropriate if a hemothorax, large pleural effusion, or large pneumothorax was suspected. While these conditions should all be considered in a patient with asymmetric breath sounds, another etiology is more likely given his recent intubation. A different step is indicated prior to consideration of these other etiologies.

**D - Administer inhaled albuterol** - Albuterol is used to treat acute bronchospasm (e.g., asthma exacerbation). While this patient has evidence of impaired ventilation, he has no clinical evidence of bronchospasm (e.g., wheezing, tachypnea, etc) and the unilateral exam findings are suggestive of a different etiology.

**E - Remove endotracheal tube and reintubate** - Removal of the endotracheal tube with reintubation would be indicated if inadvertent esophageal intubation were suspected (e.g., if gurgling sounds were auscultated in the epigastrium). However, inadvertent esophageal intubation is unlikely given that breath sounds are present on the right and there is chest expansion.

**F - Perform emergent thoracotomy** - Emergent thoracotomy is a procedure used in cases of massive hemothorax (e.g., > 1.5 L immediate drainage), empyema, penetrating chest trauma, cardiac tamponade, and exsanguinating cardiac or vascular injuries. While this patient's asymmetric breath sounds are concerning for potential intrathoracic pathology, he is currently hemodynamically stable. Therefore, a less invasive strategy is warranted.

