### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Opportunistic colonization** - Opportunistic colonization of a heavily scarred lung cavity (e.g., after a bout of pulmonary tuberculosis) by Aspergillus species describes the pathogenesis of aspergilloma. Aspergilloma (also known as a fungus ball) can manifest with cough, hemoptysis, and a radiopaque mass that shifts upon repositioning, as seen in this patient.

Image File: 1501-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_598aebbe10753.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hypersensitivity reaction** - A hypersensitivity reaction is the underlying pathophysiologic mechanism of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA). This condition occurs as a result of chronic exposure to Aspergillus. Individuals with ABPA commonly present with symptoms of sinusitis and often have a history of cystic fibrosis or asthma, neither of which is the case here. Furthermore, a mass on lung imaging that moves with repositioning would not be expected in the case of ABPA.

**B - Invasive infection** - Invasive aspergillosis, which manifests with severe pneumonia, septicemia, and extrapulmonary involvement, is most often seen in immunocompromised patients. This patient's presentation is comparatively mild and his history does not suggest an immunocompromised state, making an invasive infection unlikely. Moreover, his history of pulmonary tuberculosis and chest x-ray findings point to a different diagnosis.

**C - Asbestos inhalation** - Asbestosis is a type of lung disease that is caused by the inhalation of asbestos fibers, which usually occurs in the course of occupational exposure. Patients with asbestosis commonly present with exertional dyspnea, dry cough, and a chest x-ray showing diffuse bilateral lower lobe infiltrates, none of which are present here. Moreover, this patient has no history of asbestos exposure.

**D - Neoplastic transformation** - Neoplastic transformation of cells in the lung can result in several different types of lung cancer. Individuals with lung carcinomas may present with blood-tinged sputum and cough, as seen in this patient. However, this patient lacks other features commonly associated with lung neoplasms, such as weight loss, shortness of breath, wheezing, and a history of smoking. Given the movable intracavitary mass seen on this patient's chest x-ray (in contrast to the rigid mass usually seen in lung cancers) and his history of pulmonary tuberculosis, he most likely has a different condition.

**F - Abscess formation** - Patients with lung abscesses can present with a productive cough and a blood-tinged sputum. However, most patients present acutely and have a fever, neither of which is the case here. Moreover, the classic plain film finding in lung abscess is a discrete collection with an air-fluid level. This patient's chest x-ray instead shows an intracavitary radiopaque mass that moves on repositioning.

