### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Measure fibrin degradation products** - Measurement of D-dimer is recommended for patients with a modified Wells score of ≤ 4, as seen in this case. As D-dimer measurement has a high negative predictive value, it is used to rule out PE in patients in whom PE is unlikely (i.e., a normal D-dimer measurement rules it out). An elevated D-dimer measurement indicates that the patient is likely to have a PE and that a more specific diagnostic test is indicated (CTPA or V/Q scan) to confirm the diagnosis.

Image File: 1502-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5950db0127671.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Measure A-a gradient** - The A-a gradient, obtained from an ABG, can be used to help identify the underlying pathophysiology of hypoxemia (e.g., shunt, V/Q mismatch, etc). While the PaO2 is typically low in patients with PE, this is neither a sensitive nor specific test and is not considered useful for the diagnosis of PE. It is unlikely to be helpful in this patient, who has a moderate probability of PE.

**B - Start noninvasive positive pressure ventilation** - Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (e.g., BiPAP) is commonly used for the treatment of respiratory distress related to obstructive lung disease (e.g., acute COPD or asthma exacerbation) or pulmonary edema. This patient's presentation is not consistent with a condition for which BiPAP would be indicated.

**C - Administer ibuprofen** - Ibuprofen, an NSAID, can be used for the treatment of pericarditis, which can also present with pleuritic chest pain, tachypnea, low-grade fever, and cough. However, this patient lacks other typical signs of pericarditis including chest pain that is improved upon leaning forward or pericardial friction rub on auscultation. In addition, this patient has hypoxemia, which would not be expected in pericarditis.

**D - Order CT pulmonary angiography** - CT pulmonary angiography is the best definitive diagnostic test for pulmonary embolism. This contrast-enhanced imaging study is both sensitive and specific in diagnosing intraluminal filling defects in the pulmonary arteries but is also associated with certain risks (e.g., contrast-induced nephropathy). CTPA would be the next step in management for a hemodynamically stable patient with a high probability of PE (modified Wells score for PE > 4). However, this patient's Wells score of only 3.

Image File: 1502-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9537a1f1.jpg

**F - Perform pulmonary angiography** - Pulmonary angiography is no longer routinely used to diagnose PE and is only recommended if a patient has a high probability of PE and CT angiography is unavailable. This patient has a low pretest probability of PE (modified Wells score ≤ 4), which means this test is not recommended.

Image File: 1502-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_50feb44f16c52.jpg

**G - Order ventilation and perfusion scintigraphy** - Ventilation and perfusion scintigraphy (V/Q scan) can be used to diagnose patients with a high pretest probability of PE (modified Wells score for PE > 4), but who have contraindications to CT angiography. A perfusion failure in a normally ventilated pulmonary area (mismatch) is highly suggestive of PE. This patient only has a moderate probability of PE, which means that a V/Q scan is not recommended.

**H - Administer alteplase** - Alteplase, a thrombolytic agent, is indicated for the emergent treatment of massive, life-threatening PE with evidence of right heart failure or marked hemodynamic instability. Although this patient’s presentation is concerning for PE, she is not a candidate for thrombolytics given her stable vital signs and the lack of a definitive diagnosis.

