### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Colonization of the air conditioning system** - Legionella pneumophila infection is acquired via inhalation of aerosols from contaminated water, typically from air-conditioning systems, showers, and swimming pools where water is not heated above the 60–70°C (140–158°F) required to kill the bacteria.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Transmission via infectious respiratory droplets** - Respiratory droplets can transmit a range of infections, such as respiratory viruses and pneumococcus, but not Legionella. Respiratory viruses are a source of hospital-acquired pneumonia, but they are detected via PCR of respiratory secretions, serology, or culture, not with a urinary antigen test. If this patient had pneumococcal pneumonia, it would likely respond to beta-lactam antibiotics.

**B - Contamination of reheated hospital food** - Contaminated reheated food could be a source of a number of gastrointestinal pathogens. Although this patient does have fever, nausea, and diarrhea, he also has prominent respiratory symptoms and consolidation on his chest x-ray.

**D - Entry through colonized intravenous catheters** - Intravenous catheters are commonly colonized by bacteria from the patient's own skin, primarily coagulase-negative staphylococci and Staphylococcus aureus, which can lead to primary bloodstream infections. This patient has fever and confusion, which are consistent with a bloodstream infection, but he also has prominent respiratory symptoms and consolidation on his chest x-ray.

**E - Insufficient adherence to hand hygiene measures** - Insufficient adherence to hand hygiene measures increases the risk of a number of hospital-acquired gastrointestinal infections that are transmitted via the fecal-oral route (e.g., norovirus, Clostridioides difficile). However, although this patient does have fever, nausea, and diarrhea, he also has prominent respiratory symptoms and consolidation on his chest x-ray.

