### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Levofloxacin** - Levofloxacin is the treatment of choice for legionellosis. Legionellosis has two clinical manifestations: Pontiac fever and Legionnaires' disease. Pontiac fever is a mild flulike condition that is self-limiting. Legionnaires' disease presents with atypical pneumonia and diarrhea, which is consistent with this patient's findings. Legionellosis is confirmed via a positive urine antigen test. Acceptable second-line treatments for legionellosis include macrolides such as azithromycin.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole** - Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX) may be administered in case of legionellosis, but only as a alternative to failed or contraindicated first-line therapy. TMP/SMX is also used to treat Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP), which also presents with diffuse bilateral interstitial infiltrates on chest x-ray, which may mimic legionellosis. However, PCP affects immunocompromised patients and it does not present with watery diarrhea or decreased serum sodium.

**C - Amoxicillin** - Amoxicillin is the drug of choice for treating community-acquired lobar pneumonia, which may present with dry cough, shortness of breath, and low-grade fever. However, a chest x-ray of lobar pneumonia is typically notable for an extensive opacity that is restricted to one pulmonary lobe and this patient's x-ray shows bilateral patchy infiltrates. These findings, together with watery diarrhea and decreased serum sodium make the diagnosis of lobar pneumonia unlikely.

**D - Oseltamivir** - Oseltamivir is used to treat influenza A and B, which may present with dry cough, shortness of breath, and a low-grade fever. However, influenza does not typically produce watery diarrhea in adults and is not detectable with urinary antigen testing. Additionally, decreased serum sodium and bilateral patchy infiltrates on chest x-ray are not typical for influenza.

**E - Rifampin** - Rifampin is one of the first-line agents to treat tuberculosis, which may present with dry cough, dyspnea, and low-grade fever. However, this patient's hyponatremia, diarrhea, and x-ray findings would not be expected in tuberculosis.

