### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Recommend symptomatic treatment only** - Symptomatic treatment is a conservative treatment intended to relieve discomfort from a symptomatic disease. For this patient, it may include rest, analgesics, and saltwater gargles. This patient's clinical presentation is most consistent with acute viral pharyngitis, a self-limited disease with symptoms that typically resolve without treatment 3–4 days after onset. No further evaluation or additional management is required.

Image File: 1510-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57c0189fc3340.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Prescribe oral amoxicillin** - Oral amoxicillin is a beta-lactam antibiotic that can be used to treat bacterial pharyngitis caused by group A Streptococcus, which can manifest with sore throat and erythema of the tonsils and pharynx. However, it does not usually cause a cough. In addition, streptococcal pharyngitis more commonly develops in young adults and typically causes fevers, tonsillar exudates, and cervical lymphadenopathy, which are not seen in this patient. His clinical presentation is more consistent with viral pharyngitis, which should not be treated with antibiotics.

**B - Obtain x-ray of the chest** - Chest x-rays are often obtained during the evaluation of patients who have a cough to evaluate for evidence of pneumonia, a lower respiratory tract infection. However, this patient's symptoms (sort throat, rhinorrhea, erythema of the tonsils and pharynx) are more consistent with pharyngitis, an upper respiratory tract infection that does not require a chest x-ray for evaluation. In addition, he does not have typical features of a lower respiratory tract infection (e.g., fever, shortness of breath).

**C - Obtain bacterial throat swab culture** - A throat swab culture can be used to confirm a diagnosis of bacterial pharyngitis (e.g., caused by group A Streptococcus), which can manifest with sore throat and erythema of the tonsils and pharynx. However, bacterial pharyngitis does not usually cause a cough. In addition, it most commonly develops in young adults and typically causes fevers, tonsillar exudates, and cervical lymphadenopathy, which are not seen in this patient.

**D - Obtain rapid test for group A Streptococcus** - The rapid test for group A Streptococcus has 70–90% sensitivity for detecting streptococcal pharyngitis, which can manifest with sore throat and erythema of the tonsils and pharynx. However, streptococcal pharyngitis does not usually cause a cough. In addition, it most commonly develops in young adults and typically causes fevers, tonsillar exudates, and cervical lymphadenopathy, which are not seen in this patient.

**F - Prescribe oseltamivir** - Oseltamivir is a neuraminidase inhibitor used to treat influenza infection, which can manifest with sore throat, dry cough, headache, rhinorrhea, and erythema of the tonsils and pharynx without exudates. However, influenza infection also typically causes fevers, chills, arthralgia, and myalgias, which are not seen in this patient. In addition, oseltamivir therapy is most effective if initiated within 1–2 days of symptom onset; this patient has been symptomatic for 3 days.

