### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - CT scan of the chest** - The evaluation of an incidental solitary pulmonary nodule involves an assessment of the nodule's risk for malignancy. Radiologic factors that increase the risk for malignancy include large nodule size (> 8 mm), location in the upper lung fields (as seen here), and irregular, spiculated, or scalloped borders. Clinical risk factors for malignancy include age > 40 years, history of smoking or asbestos exposure, and a positive family or personal history of malignancy. Nodules that are detected on chest x-ray, as in this patient, usually require further evaluation with a CT scan, which can more accurately assess nodule size, appearance (e.g., borders, presence of calcification), and the presence of other nodules. If the nodule has fat or a characteristic calcification pattern, it is considered benign, and no further follow-up is required.

Image File: 1511-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6006682e19473.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Follow-up x-ray of the chest in 12 months** - A follow-up chest x-ray is not appropriate for re-evaluating an incidental pulmonary nodule because it cannot adequately assess nodule size, appearance, and the presence of other nodules.

**B - Follow-up x-ray of the chest in 6 months** - A follow-up chest x-ray is not appropriate for re-evaluating an incidental pulmonary nodule because it cannot adequately assess nodule size, appearance, and the presence of other nodules.

**C - Interferon-γ release assay** - Interferon-γ release assays (IGRA) are performed in patients with suspected latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) or reactivation tuberculosis. Tuberculosis is an important differential diagnosis to consider in patients with a solitary pulmonary nodule. However, nodules caused by tuberculosis typically have cavitations and calcifications on x-ray. There are no indications that this patient has LTBI. Given his recent trip to a tuberculosis-endemic country, active tuberculosis is a consideration. However, it is very unlikely that he contracted this condition, given the short duration of his trip, the absence of other risk factors (e.g., immunosuppression), and the absence of symptoms. Regardless, this test is not appropriate for diagnosing active tuberculosis.

Image File: 1511-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9179d21a.jpg

**D - Positron emission tomography** - Positron emission tomography (PET) can be used to evaluate incidental solitary solid pulmonary nodules that are > 8 mm in size that have a low or intermediate risk of malignancy. FDG-avid nodules should undergo biopsy for histopathologic examination. FDG-nonavid nodules should be surveilled with a follow-up CT scan. PET is not appropriate for this patient, who has a 5-mm pulmonary nodule with other radiologic features (e.g., border, presence of calcification) that have not been fully characterized.

**F - Sputum culture** - Sputum culture is the gold standard diagnostic test in patients with suspected active tuberculosis. Given this patient's recent trip to a tuberculosis-endemic country, this diagnosis should be considered as a potential cause of the pulmonary nodule. However, it is very unlikely that he contracted this condition, given the short duration of his trip, the absence of other risk factors (e.g., immunosuppression), and the absence of symptoms.

Image File: 1511-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9179d21a.jpg

**G - Reassurance** - Reassurance without further evaluation is appropriate for small (≤ 4 mm) incidental solitary solid pulmonary nodules that have a low risk for malignancy. It is not appropriate for this patient, who has a 5-mm pulmonary nodule with other radiologic features (e.g., border, presence of calcification) that have not been fully characterized.

**H - Bronchoscopy with biopsy** - The evaluation of an incidental solitary pulmonary nodule involves an assessment of the nodule's risk for malignancy. Though histopathologic examination of tissue taken from a biopsy can provide diagnostic information about a pulmonary nodule, this procedure is inappropriate at this time because its risks outweigh its benefits. Moreover, other radiologic features of this patient's nodule (e.g., border, presence of calcification) have not been fully characterized.

