### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Dilated right ventricular cavity** - Right ventricular dilatation occurs in response to elevated pulmonary artery vascular resistance. A massive pulmonary embolism, as seen in this patient, will cause elevation of pulmonary artery pressures, leading to RV pressure overload and dilation (right heart strain). This ultimately leads to decreases in left atrial filling and left ventricular cardiac output, and eventually to obstructive shock. This patient shows evidence of hemodynamic instability from a PE, so a dilated RV cavity and tricuspid regurgitation would be expected findings on echocardiography.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Rapid, aberrant contractions of the atria** - Rapid, aberrant contractions of the atria are suggestive of atrial fibrillation, which is not uncommon in the postoperative period. Although A-fib with RVR can present with syncope, hypotension, chest pain, and dyspnea, this patient’s hypoxia and asymmetric lower extremity swelling are inconsistent with this etiology.

**B - Collapsed inferior vena cava** - A collapsed inferior vena cava is characteristic of hypovolemic shock or distributive shock, e.g., in the case of hemorrhage, dehydration, sepsis, and/or anaphylaxis. While sepsis and postoperative hemorrhage should be on the differential for this patient, he is afebrile and has had no suspicious findings on abdominal examination. His JVD and hypoxia are suggestive of a different etiology.

**C - Stenosis of the carotid arteries** - Severe, bilateral carotid artery stenosis can cause syncope, but it is rare and not associated with any of the other findings present in this patient. While carotid artery stenosis is also associated with increased risk of ischemic stroke, acute stroke rarely causes syncope and would not explain this patient's other findings.

**D - Apical left ventricular ballooning** - Apical left ventricular ballooning is an echocardiography finding seen in Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, a form of acute heart failure that is classically associated with significant emotional stressors. While it can also present with acute-onset chest pain, dyspnea, syncope, and shock, this patient's asymmetric lower extremity edema suggests a different etiology.

**F - Anechoic space between pericardium and epicardium** - An anechoic space between the pericardium and epicardium is a characteristic echocardiographic finding of pericardial effusion. A pericardial effusion large enough to cause cardiac tamponade could also present with shortness of breath, JVD, and shock. However, hypoxia and unilateral lower extremity swelling both suggest a different etiology.

**G - Reduced regional ventricular wall motion** - Regional wall motion abnormalities can be seen on echocardiography in patients with acute or prior myocardial infarction. MI can occur in the perioperative phase and can also present with syncope, chest pain, dyspnea, and signs of shock. However, asymmetric lower extremity edema suggests a different etiology for this patient's symptoms.

