### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Request previous chest x-ray** - Requesting a previous chest x-ray is the most appropriate first step in the management of a patient with a solitary pulmonary nodule, especially when the risk of malignancy is high (age > 40 years, history of smoking). Old imaging studies are used to assess for new changes on the current radiograph (e.g., additional nodules, enlargement). Following the review of previous imaging or if no previous chest x-ray is available, a low-dose CT scan is indicated to assess for nodule size, location, and signs of malignancy.

Image File: 1513-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6006682e19473.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform arterial blood gas analysis** - ABG analysis is part of the normal workup for many lung diseases in a symptomatic patient, especially in the case of acid-base disorders. This patient, however, has normal vital signs, and physical examination and laboratory studies are within normal limits.

**B - Perform CT-guided biopsy** - A CT-guided biopsy is indicated for the diagnosis of lung cancer in a patient with a peripheral lung nodule with demonstrated changes on CT or with a nodule > 8 mm on PET. While this patient has a peripherally located nodule, a biopsy is not the most appropriate next step in management.

**C - Perform diffusion capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide** - DLCO is useful in differentiating intrapulmonary and extrapulmonary causes of restrictive lung disease. This patient's occupational history of glass manufacturing puts him at significant risk for silicosis, which would present with a decreased DLCO. Although silicosis can also present with solitary lesions, particularly in the upper and middle regions of the lungs, this patient does not have signs of silicosis, such as dyspnea, coughing, or classic x-ray findings (i.e., eggshell calcifications or bilateral ground-glass opacities).

**D - Measure angiotensin-converting enzyme** - ACE levels are commonly elevated in patients with sarcoidosis and can be used for monitoring disease progression and treatment. Patients often present with dry cough and exertional dyspnea, peripheral lymphadenopathy, and skin findings such as lupus pernio. While this patient is at a higher risk for sarcoidosis given his positive family history of chronic granulomatous disease, he is currently asymptomatic and a chest x-ray would show hilar lymphadenopathy with or without bilateral reticular opacities rather than a solitary pulmonary nodule.

Image File: 1513-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59b933f17f023.jpg

**E - Perform high-resolution computed tomography** - High-resolution CT can be useful in the diagnosis of restrictive lung diseases, because of their diverse etiology. This patient's occupational history of glass manufacturing puts him at significant risk for silicosis, which can also present with solitary pulmonary lesions. However, patients with these lesions typically present with dyspnea, cough, a mix of restrictive and obstructive findings, and classic x-ray findings such as eggshell calcifications or bilateral ground-glass opacities, which are all absent here.

**G - Perform positron emission tomography** - Positron-emission tomography is indicated for further workup of a lung nodule > 8 mm identified on CT scan, given its high sensitivity for detecting malignancies. This patient's nodule does meet the size criteria; however, a PET scan is not yet indicated (without a prior CT scan) in the management of this patient.

**H - Repeat x-ray in 12 months** - A repeat x-ray in 12 months is insufficient for this patient who has risk factors for lung cancer and a solitary lung nodule on chest radiograph.

