### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Reassurance and close follow-up** - The standard of care in acute viral rhinosinusitis is reassurance and close follow-up. Uncomplicated viral sinusitis is generally self-limiting, and supportive therapy with rest, hydration, antipyretics, and oral analgesics is sufficient. In addition, topical, intranasal steroids (e.g., fluticasone, beclomethasone), nasal saline lavage, and decongestive nose drops (e.g., oxymetazoline) can provide symptomatic relief. If bacterial rhinosinusitis or bacterial superinfection is suspected, antibiotic treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanate or, in this adult patient with penicillin allergy, with doxycycline, levofloxacin, or moxifloxacin, is indicated for 5–10 days. Further imaging tests are generally not recommended unless a complication (e.g., orbital cellulitis) or a differential diagnosis (e.g., nasal polyps) is suspected.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Inhaled beclomethasone therapy** - Inhaled beclomethasone therapy is indicated for the maintenance treatment of asthma, which typically presents with a dry cough that affects sleep quality and is often associated with rhinorrhea. However, in asthma, rhinorrhea is usually due to chronic allergic rhinitis, and characteristic features of lower airway involvement (e.g., dyspnea and chest tightness, end-expiratory wheezes) would be expected. While inhaled beclomethasone has no benefit in patients with acute viral and bacterial rhinosinusitis, short-term application of topical, intranasal steroids (e.g., fluticasone, beclomethasone) may be indicated to reduce nasal symptoms and inflammation.

**C - CT scan of the sinuses** - A CT scan of the sinuses is the imaging modality of choice in acute sinusitis. However, a CT scan is indicated only if symptoms fail to improve within 7 days of diagnosis or worsen during the initial management of acute bacterial rhinosinusitis, in the case of suspected complications (e.g., osteomyelitis, orbital cellulitis), or to rule out differential diagnoses (e.g., neoplasms). This patient has only had symptoms of acute viral rhinosinusitis for 4 days and does not have visual changes or painful eye movements that might suggest a complication. Performing a CT scan would only expose the patient to unnecessary radiation.

**D - Oral levofloxacin** - Levofloxacin is considered a second-line antibiotic for the treatment of acute bacterial sinusitis and may also be used in patients with penicillin allergy, like this patient. However, this patient has no characteristic features of a bacterial infection (i.e., severe symptoms initial ≥ 3 days, > 39°C fever, facial pain, purulent nasal discharge) or superinfection (i.e., persistent symptoms for ≥ 10 days without clinical improvement, initially improving and then worsening symptoms after 5–6 days). Therefore, antibiotics are not indicated at this time.

**E - Sputum Gram stain and culture** - Sputum gram stain and culture are indicated for the diagnostic workup of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) if symptoms are severe or persistent, or if the patient is hospitalized. This patient does not have features suggestive of typical pneumonia. While atypical pneumonia often manifests with headaches and dry cough, other constitutional symptoms (e.g., fatigue, myalgias) and dyspnea are usually present. Microbiological tests are not indicated for acute viral rhinosinusitis unless complications (e.g., orbital cellulitis, osteomyelitis) are suspected based on clinical presentation (e.g., visual changes, eye movements), which is not the case here.

**F - Oral amoxicillin-clavulanate therapy** - Amoxicillin, with or without clavulanate, is considered the first-line treatment for acute bacterial rhinosinusitis. However, this patient has no characteristic features of a bacterial infection, (i.e., severe symptoms initial ≥ 3 days; > 39°C fever, facial pain, purulent nasal discharge) or superinfection (i.e., persistent symptoms for ≥ 10 days without clinical improvement, initially improving and then worsening symptoms after 5–6 days). Moreover, this patient has a history of penicillin allergy; amoxicillin-clavulanate should, therefore, be avoided.

**G - X-ray of the chest** - A chest x-ray is commonly used to diagnose community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). A patient with CAP may present with fever and cough. However, this patient has no other features suggestive of CAP, e.g., high fever, severe malaise, tachypnea, dyspnea, or purulent sputum. Moreover, his pulmonary examination is normal; no crackles or rales are present. A chest x-ray is not required for the diagnosis of acute rhinosinusitis and would expose the patient to unnecessary radiation.

