### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Reassurance** - The evaluation of an incidental solitary pulmonary nodule involves an assessment of the risk for malignancy. Radiologic factors that increase the risk for malignancy include large nodule size, location in the upper lung fields, and irregular, spiculated, or scalloped borders. Clinical risk factors for malignancy include age > 40 years, a history of smoking or asbestos exposure, and a positive family or personal history of malignancy. Pulmonary nodules that are ≤ 4 mm in size and have a low risk for malignancy require no further evaluation or follow-up. The 3-mm nodule with smooth borders seen in the middle lung field of this 33-year-old patient who has no clinical risk factors for malignancy fulfills these criteria.

Image File: 1518-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6006682e19473.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - Follow-up CT scan of the chest in 6–12 months** - The evaluation of an incidental solitary solid pulmonary nodule involves an assessment of the nodule's risk for malignancy. Solid nodules between 6–8 mm in size can be monitored with a follow-up CT scan within 6–12 months. However, this patient's nodule is 3 mm in size and has a low risk for malignancy. A follow-up CT scan would be indicated if this patient's nodule were larger in size or had an intermediate or high risk for malignancy.

**C - Follow-up x-ray of the chest in 6–12 months** - A follow-up chest x-ray is not appropriate for re-evaluating an incidental solitary solid pulmonary nodule; the best imaging modality for follow-up is a CT scan.

**D - CT-guided transthoracic biopsy** - The evaluation of an incidental solitary solid pulmonary nodule involves an assessment of the nodule's risk for malignancy. Though histopathologic examination of tissue taken from a biopsy can provide diagnostic information about a pulmonary nodule, this procedure is inappropriate at this time because its risks outweigh its benefits. Biopsy would be indicated if this patient's nodule were larger and/or associated with an intermediate risk of malignancy. Moreover, a CT-guided transthoracic approach is not an appropriate biopsy technique for centrally-located lesions, such as the pulmonary nodule seen in this patient.

**E - Positron emission tomography** - Positron emission tomography (PET) can be used to evaluate incidental solitary solid pulmonary nodules that are > 8 mm in size that have an intermediate or high risk of malignancy. FDG-avid nodules should undergo biopsy for histopathologic examination. FDG-nonavid nodules should be surveilled with a follow-up CT scan. PET is not appropriate for this patient, who has a 3-mm solid pulmonary nodule.

**F - Bronchoscopy with biopsy** - The evaluation of an incidental solitary solid pulmonary nodule involves an assessment of the nodule's risk for malignancy. Though histopathologic examination of tissue taken from a biopsy can provide diagnostic information about a pulmonary nodule, this procedure is inappropriate at this time because its risks outweigh its benefits. Biopsy would be indicated if this patient's nodule were larger and/or associated with an intermediate risk of malignancy. A transbronchial approach is appropriate for biopsy of centrally-located lesions, such as the pulmonary nodule seen in this patient.

