### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Pulmonary embolism** - This patient's acute pleuritic chest pain, hemoptysis, low-grade fever, and x-ray findings (Hampton hump) are concerning for pulmonary embolism. This patient is at high risk of venous thromboembolism because of her chronic immobilization and smoking history. Chest x-ray is typically only obtained to rule out alternative etiologies (e.g., pneumonia, pulmonary edema), as x-ray is neither particularly sensitive or specific for PE. The Hampton hump is a very rare finding but when present supports the diagnosis of PE.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pericarditis** - Pericarditis may present with sharp pleuritic chest pain, and it is often preceded by symptoms of URI. Chest x-ray may be normal, or show an enlarged cardiac silhouette from pericardial effusion. The wedge-shaped infiltrate on this patient's chest x-ray is not consistent with pericarditis.

**B - Sarcoidosis** - Pulmonary sarcoidosis is often asymptomatic but may present with cough, chest pain, and systemic symptoms (e.g., fever, malaise), which are seen in this patient. The classic chest x-ray finding in sarcoidosis is bilateral lymphadenopathy; bilateral reticular opacities may also be seen. However, this patient's chest x-ray does not have show evidence of hilar lymphadenopathy, making this diagnosis very unlikely.

Image File: 1519-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59b933f17f023.jpg

**C - Bacterial pneumonia** - Pneumonia should always be considered in a patient presenting with low-grade fever and cough with a preceding upper respiratory infection. However, the opacity seen on this patient's chest x-ray is not consistent with this diagnosis.

**E - Pneumothorax** - Acute pleuritic chest pain and cough in a chronic smoker could be a sign of pneumothorax. However, spontaneous pneumothorax is rare in patients > 40 years without underlying lung disease (e.g., COPD, emphysema). Lung examination in patients with pneumothorax classically reveals decreased or absent breath sounds and hyperresonance to percussion over the affected area. The diagnosis is established when an area of lucency between the lung and pleura is identified on chest x-ray, and this feature is not present on this patient's x-ray.

**F - Pulmonary edema** - Cardiogenic pulmonary edema should always be considered in a patient with chest pain and cough, even if there is no known history of cardiovascular disease. Blood-tinged sputum and crackles may be present on examination, although crackles are typically bilateral. This patient's chest x-ray does not show any of the characteristic findings of pulmonary edema (e.g., diffuse, fluffy infiltrates, Kerley B lines, and/or prominent pulmonary vasculature), making this diagnosis unlikely.

Image File: 1519-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ffd744ec872e.jpg

**G - Bronchogenic carcinoma** - This patient has an extensive smoking history and presents with cough, hemoptysis, and chest pain, which should raise suspicion of bronchogenic carcinoma. However, the acute nature of her symptoms makes this diagnosis unlikely. While a bronchogenic lesion may not always be identified on chest x-ray in bronchogenic carcinoma, the localized, wedge-shaped infiltrate seen on this patient's x-ray is consistent with a different diagnosis.

