### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Lung cancer** - Superior vena cava (SVC) syndrome is most commonly caused by lung cancer (usually small cell lung cancer or squamous cell carcinoma) or non-Hodgkin lymphoma (particularly in younger patients). This patient's history of chronic smoking is a risk factor for lung cancer. Compression of the superior vena cava by a tumor impairs the venous backflow to the right atrium, resulting in venous congestion in the head, neck, and upper extremities. Other nonmalignant causes of SVC syndrome include mediastinal fibrosis, tuberculosis, histoplasmosis, or thrombosis of the SVC due to the placement of a central venous device. A CT scan of the chest should be obtained in this patient to evaluate for malignancy.

Image File: 1520-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6100ef43bc004.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hodgkin lymphoma** - While Hodgkin lymphomas frequently present with mediastinal lymphadenopathy, compression of the superior vena cava (SVC) resulting in SVC syndrome is rare. Non-Hodgkin lymphomas, on the other hand, are responsible for the majority of cases of SVC syndrome in young patients. This patient lacks any typical symptoms of lymphoma (painless lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, or B symptoms), which makes a malignant lymphoma unlikely.

**B - Pulmonary tuberculosis** - Pulmonary tuberculosis usually manifests with a blood-tinged mucopurulent cough, fever, chills, and night sweats in patients with a history of travel to an endemic region or exposure to TB, none of which are seen here. Although pulmonary TB can cause sclerosing mediastinitis, which can present similarly to superior vena cava syndrome, the lack of other more common findings associated with TB or a history of TB exposure makes this diagnosis less likely.

**C - Pulmonary embolism** - This patient's history of breast cancer, chronic smoking, and tamoxifen therapy increases her risk of hypercoagulability and potentially developing a pulmonary embolism (PE). While PE is consistent with this patient's sign of right heart failure (i.e., JVD, hypotension, tachycardia), it does not explain her selective facial and upper limb edema. Additionally, patients with acute pulmonary embolisms present with respiratory distress, cough, and rales on pulmonary auscultation, which are not seen here.

**D - Constrictive pericarditis** - Radiation therapy is a predisposing factor for the development of constrictive pericarditis, which may be the underlying cause of this patient's JVD and peripheral edema. However, patients with constrictive pericarditis typically have a thickened myocardium and a pericardial knock on auscultation, which is not heard here. Additionally, the peripheral edema in constrictive pericarditis involves both the upper and lower extremities; the presence of a selective facial and upper limb edema in this patient suggests another etiology.

**F - Nephrotic syndrome** - Nephrotic syndrome causes renal filtration dysfunction and is characterized by marked edema, weight gain, hypertension, and a hypercoagulable state. This patient has a selective facial and upper limb edema, which is not characteristic of the edema pattern seen in nephrotic syndrome (initially a periorbital and later general edema). Additionally, nephrotic syndrome does not explain this patient's JVD, tachycardia, and hypotension.

