### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - No therapy is indicated at this time** - Bronchiolitis is a clinical diagnosis and further workup, such as chest x-ray, complete blood count, or nasopharyngeal swabs, is typically not required. Most affected individuals also only require supportive treatment. Admission and treatment should only be considered if the patient is dehydrated, not feeding adequately, has risk factors for severe disease (i.e., age < 12 weeks, history of prematurity, cardiopulmonary illness, immunosuppression), and/or has evidence of significant respiratory distress such as apneic episodes, respiratory exertion (e.g., severe tachypnea, nasal flaring, subcostal retractions), or respiratory failure (e.g., altered mental status, SpO2 persistently below 90%).

Inpatient supportive treatment consists of fluid therapy and supplemental oxygen via a nasal cannula, and in some cases, nebulized hypertonic saline, nasal suctioning, and continuous SpO2 monitoring. Patients admitted with suspected bronchiolitis require contact precautions. Palivizumab is not used for treatment and is only used selectively for bronchiolitis prevention in patients < 1 year of age with hemodynamically significant heart disease or lung disease of prematurity.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Nebulized racemic epinephrine therapy** - Nebulized racemic epinephrine is used to treat moderate to severe croup. Patients with croup can have prodromal upper respiratory tract symptoms but eventually develop stridor, rather than rhonchi or wheezing, and usually have evidence of significant respiratory distress. Epinephrine (nebulized or systemic) has no role in the management of bronchiolitis.

**C - Nebulized albuterol and oral prednisone therapy** - Nebulized albuterol and oral prednisone are indicated for the management of a moderate to severe acute exacerbation of asthma. Asthma can result in end-expiratory wheezing and manifests infrequently with rhinorrhea (due to allergic rhinitis) and cough. However, asthma does not cause rhonchi or a low-grade fever. This patient has bronchiolitis, for which neither bronchodilators nor corticosteroids are indicated, because the pathophysiology of bronchiolitis involves airway edema and mucus debris within the bronchioles rather than the airway hyperresponsiveness and bronchoconstriction that are characteristic of asthma.

**D - Nebulized hypertonic saline therapy** - Nebulized hypertonic saline therapy is considered only for patients with bronchiolitis that is severe enough to warrant admission. Admission is only required if the patient is dehydrated, not feeding adequately, has risk factors for severe disease (i.e., age < 12 weeks, history of premature birth, cardiopulmonary illness, immunosuppression), and/or has evidence of significant respiratory distress. This patient does not require admission or nebulized hypertonic saline therapy.

**E - Titrated oxygen therapy** - In patients with a SpO2 of 90-95% who have certain respiratory conditions, such as croup or acute exacerbation of asthma, titrated oxygen therapy is indicated because rapid decompensation and worsening of hypoxemia can occur. However, in bronchiolitis, oxygen therapy is not indicated for patients with SpO2 > 90% or with mild and transient dips below 90% because well tolerated, intermittent, mild hypoxemia is common in this condition.

