### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Surgical exploration in the operating room** - Impaled foreign bodies should be removed under direct visualization in the operating room. As the knife is still in situ, the exact extent of intrathoracic damage is unknown. Although this patient is currently hemodynamically stable, he could have sustained vascular damage that is masked by the knife tamponading the stab wound and preventing hemorrhage at this time. Upon removal of the knife, the patient could hemorrhage and rapidly deteriorate. Emergency surgery is indicated to remove the knife in an environment in which bleeding can be controlled. Therefore, this patient should undergo rapid sequence endotracheal intubation in anticipation of emergency surgery. In hemodynamically stable patients, some surgeons first use VATS to evaluate the situs and, if safe removal of the foreign body is not possible with this technique, proceed to open thoracotomy.

Image File: 1524-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59030c9fc0bcd.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Right needle thoracostomy** - A needle thoracostomy is helpful in emergency treatment of patients with a tension pneumothorax, which can be caused by lung injury due to penetrating trauma. A patient with a tension pneumothorax will have hypotension, jugular vein distention, tracheal deviation, and absent breath sounds with hyperresonance to percussion on the ipsilateral side. This patient exhibits none of these features.

**B - Right tube thoracostomy** - A tube thoracostomy is indicated in patients with hemothorax or pneumothorax. Hemothorax and pneumothorax result in decreased or absent breath sounds on the ipsilateral side with associated dullness and hyperresonance to percussion, respectively. This patient, however, has normal breath sounds bilaterally and chest x-ray shows homogeneously aerated lungs and sharply demarcated costophrenic angles.

**D - Cricothyroidotomy** - Cricothyroidotomy is used in patients who require emergency airway protection if other interventions have failed to secure the airways. The most common indication is laryngospasm, an obstruction that prevents less invasive airway management. While an emergency procedure is required to remove the in situ knife and manage the injuries, cricothyroidotomy is not the first choice for airway management in this patient because there is no evidence of laryngospasm (e.g., stridor, shortness of breath, tachypnea) and other interventions to secure the airways have not been attempted.

**E - Emergency department thoracotomy** - Emergency department thoracotomy (EDT) is a last resort for patients who have sustained life-threatening thoracic trauma and are at immediate risk for, or already in, cardiac arrest and for patients who require immediate hemostasis for exsanguinating vascular or cardiac injuries. EDT is primarily recommended for pulseless patients with signs of life (e.g., measurable blood pressure, spontaneous breathing) following penetrating thoracic trauma. This patient, however, is hemodynamically stable with only minor bleeding from his chest wound; therefore, there is no indication for resuscitative thoracotomy. Although this patient has sustained penetrating thoracic trauma and an emergency intervention is necessary, a different procedure should be performed in a different setting.

