### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Supportive treatment only** - Supportive treatment (rest, adequate hydration, NSAIDs) is recommended for most cases of acute bronchitis. This disease has a viral etiology in more than 90% of cases, with influenza A and B, parainfluenza and adenovirus being some of the most frequent pathogens. Acute bronchitis is one of the most common conditions for which antibiotics are unnecessarily prescribed. Such practice should be discouraged because it may lead to increased antimicrobial resistance.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Conduct an x-ray of the chest** - A chest x-ray is commonly used for the diagnosis of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). A patient with CAP may present with dyspnea and productive cough. However, the patient here has no other features suggestive of CAP, such as high fever, severe malaise, purulent sputum, and crackles or reduced breathing sounds on lung auscultation. A chest x-ray is not required for the diagnosis of acute bronchitis and would expose the patient to unnecessary radiation.

**C - Obtain D-dimer** - A D-dimer test may be obtained if there is low suspicion of pulmonary embolism (PE) to rule out the condition as sensitivity is high, but specificity is low. PE usually presents with acute onset of tachycardia, dyspnea, cough, and chest pain. Although this patient has a sister with a clotting disorder (antiphospholipid syndrome), she only presents with mild dyspnea and no other risk factors, making PE an unlikely diagnosis.

**D - Perform Bordetella pertussis PCR** - Pertussis affects mostly children, and presents with paroxysmal coughing and post-tussive vomiting. None of these features apply to this patient.

**E - Conduct a high-resolution chest CT** - High-resolution chest CT is an imaging modality used for the diagnosis of several conditions involving the lungs, such as cancer, bronchiectasis, and chronic bronchitis. This test provides more details as compared to conventional imaging modalities (e.g., chest x-ray, normal-resolution CT scanning). However, high-resolution chest CT does not play a role in the management of patients with acute bronchitis and would expose the patient to unnecessary radiation.

**F - Obtain sputum culture and sensitivity** - A sputum culture is indicated when there is suspicion of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). A patient with CAP may present with dyspnea and cough with purulent sputum. However, the patient here does not have other features suggestive of CAP, such as high fever, severe malaise, purulent sputum, and crackles or reduced breathing sounds on lung auscultation. This patient has acute bronchitis, which is almost always caused by a virus. A sputum culture would likely not provide any useful information.

**G - Administer clarithromycin** - Clarithromycin is used as a first-line treatment for community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). A patient with CAP may present with dyspnea and productive cough. However, the patient here does not have other features suggestive of CAP, such as high fever, severe malaise, purulent sputum, and crackles or reduced breathing sounds on lung auscultation.

**H - Administer amoxicillin and clavulanic acid** - Amoxicillin and clavulanic acid are used in combination for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). A patient with CAP may present with dyspnea and productive cough. However, this patient does not have other features suggestive of CAP, such as high fever, severe malaise, purulent sputum, and crackles or reduced breathing sounds on lung auscultation.

