### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Ichthyosis vulgaris** - Ichthyosis vulgaris is characterized by dry and scaly skin due to impaired keratinization. The onset is typically between 3 and 12 months of age and patients typically present with areas of white scaling with a “fish scale” appearance. The trunk and the extensor surface of the extremities are the most commonly affected regions; areas of skin that are more moist or less exposed to air, such as the groin, axilla, and cubital and popliteal flexures, are usually spared. Other manifestations include xerosis and hyperlinearity of palms and soles, both of which are seen here. Symptoms generally worsen in the winter and improve during the summer. The diagnosis is clinical and treatment involves skin moisturizers or topical retinoids. The severity of ichthyosis vulgaris decreases with age.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Irritant contact dermatitis** - Irritant contact dermatitis (ICD) can manifest with dry skin and scaly plaques, both of which are seen here. However, in contrast with this patient's lesions, the lesions in ICD are usually limited to the site of contact with the irritant and therefore have a limited and asymmetrical distribution. Moreover, lesions in ICD are typically erythematous and not have the “fish scale” appearance seen here. Finally, ICD is not associated with palmar hyperlinearity.

Image File: 1530-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_601a6f0284122.jpg

**C - Lichen planus** - Lichen planus typically manifests with planar, polygonal plaques located along the trunk and extremities in a symmetrical distribution, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, lichen planus lesions are usually purple/violet and pruritic. Moreover, lichen planus is not associated with palmar hyperlinearity. Finally, symptom onset is typically between 30 and 60 years of age; symptoms are not expected during infancy.

Image File: 1530-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b801394251ef.jpg

**D - Acanthosis nigricans** - Acanthosis nigricans typically manifests with symmetric thickening of the skin and hyperpigmented plaques, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, acanthosis nigricans lesions are usually located in intertriginous areas (e.g., axilla, groin, neck) rather than the extensor surfaces of the extremities. Moreover, this condition is not associated with planar hyperlinearity. Finally, this patient has no risk factors for acanthosis nigricans, such as diabetes, Cushing syndrome, or polycystic ovary syndrome.

Image File: 1530-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a9913c042c55.jpg

**E - Atopic dermatitis** - Atopic dermatitis (AD) typically manifests with dry skin and scaly plaques, both of which are seen here. Furthermore, AD can be associated with palmar hyperlinearity, and symptom onset usually occurs during infancy. However, in adults, AD lesions are typically in flexor rather than extensor surfaces of the extremities, are erythematous, and do not have the “fish scale” appearance seen here.

Image File: 1530-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d953ea2dd.jpg

**F - Psoriasis** - Psoriasis manifests with scaly plaques on extensor surfaces, which this patient has. However, in psoriasis, the scaly plaques are silver-white, erythematous, and do not show the “fish scale” pattern seen in this patient. Moreover, psoriasis is not associated with hyperlinearity of palms and soles, and symptom onset is typically between 20 and 40 years of age, not during infancy. Other common manifestations of psoriasis include onycholysis, brittle nails, and nail pitting, none of which is seen here.

Image File: 1530-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58d3874b646f5.jpg

**G - Vitamin B3 deficiency** - Vitamin B3 deficiency causes pellagra, which typically manifests with symmetrical, hyperpigmented skin lesions, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, pellagra lesions are typically located in sun-exposed areas (e.g, arms, hands, malar region) and do not have the “fish scale” appearance seen in this patient. Moreover, vitamin B3 deficiency typically manifests with other symptoms such as diarrhea, dementia, and glossitis, none of which is seen here. Finally, this patient has no risk factors for vitamin B3 deficiency, such as malnutrition, alcohol use disorder, or anorexia nervosa.

Image File: 1530-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a871d10e498a.jpg

