### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Finasteride** - Finasteride, a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor, is a first-line therapy for men with androgenetic alopecia that decreases the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone, a circulating androgen responsible for the manifestations of this condition. Adverse effects include gynecomastia and sexual dysfunction (e.g., decreased libido, erectile dysfunction).

Image File: 1534-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5aa6687da14ab.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Flutamide** - Flutamide is a nonsteroidal competitive inhibitor of the androgen receptor used as a second-line therapy for women with androgenetic alopecia. It is not used to treat male pattern baldness because of its adverse effects in men, including breast tenderness, feminization, hot flashes, and sexual dysfunction. Although flutamide is better tolerated among women, it is still used infrequently because of increased risk of hepatotoxicity.

**B - Clomipramine** - Clomipramine is used to treat patients with trichotillomania, which typically manifests with irregular patterns of broken hair of varying length. Patients with this condition often have an underlying psychiatric disorder, such as obsessive-compulsive disorder, of which there is no indication in this patient. Clomipramine is not used to treat androgenetic alopecia.

Image File: 1534-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5aa7c1ebd93a3.jpg

**C - Griseofulvin** - Griseofulvin is used to treat tinea infections such as tinea capitis, which typically causes round, pruritic, scaly plaques with broken hair shafts and irregular patches of hair loss, unlike this patient's manifestations. This condition is more common among young children but can develop in adults. Griseofulvin is not used to treat androgenetic alopecia.

Image File: 1534-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55350a93a0d82.jpg

**D - Triamcinolone** - Intralesional triamcinolone is the first-line therapy for alopecia areata, which causes nonscarring hair loss similar to this patient's manifestations. However, alopecia areata typically causes acute-onset, well-demarcated patches of hair loss in contrast to this patient's chronic history of progress and diffuse hair loss. Intralesional triamcinolone is not used to treat androgenetic alopecia.

Image File: 1534-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5aa7c48211c49.jpg

**E - Levothyroxine** - Levothyroxine is used to treat hypothyroidism, a trigger of telogen effluvium. Patients with telogen effluvium experience increased shedding of telogen hair; usually > 10% of hair can be removed if ∼ 50 hairs are grasped and gently tugged away from the scalp (positive hair pull test). Although the hair loss of telogen effluvium is diffuse and nonscarring, it is typically acute in onset. Additionally, this patient does not have signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism (e.g., fatigue, bradycardia, cold intolerance, constipation, weight gain). Levothyroxine is not used to treat androgenetic alopecia.

