### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Reapply sunscreen after water exposure** - To provide adequate protection against sunburn, sunscreen with an adequate sun protection factor (SPF) should be applied at least 30 minutes prior to sun exposure and again after each exposure to water or after sweating. This patient's sunburn is likely due to the fact that he did not reapply sunscreen at any point during the 5 hours he was surfing. Even if this patient had not been swimming or surfing, sunscreen should be reapplied every 2–3 hours to prevent sunburn.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Pre-tan via incremental tanning bed usage** - While tanning beds use UVA wavelengths, which are less damaging to the skin, pre-tanning would not have a protective effect against UVA or UVB wavelengths, which are known to cause sunburn. Use of sunscreen or protective clothing are the optimal ways to prevent exposure to UVB sunlight.

**C - Apply sunscreen directly before getting into water** - Sunscreen should be applied 30 minutes before sun exposure, which this patient did do. Additionally, sunscreen should often be applied several minutes before exposure to water to prevent the immediate washing off of the product.

**D - Use SPF 50 sunscreen** - SPF 50 sunscreen provides only a negligible 1% increase in sun protection compared to the SPF 30 used by the patient, which already provides 97% protection. There are other factors concerning the application of sunscreen that contributed more to this patient's sunburn.

**E - Only go outside on cloudy days** - Cloud coverage does not provide adequate protection from UV radiation, and sunscreen should still be applied on cloudy days. Additional risk factors that increase risk of sunburn include UV reflection off of water and sand, which is likely to occur at the beach, as well as snow. UV radiation is also more intense at higher altitudes.

**F - Apply at least 3 oz of sunscreen** - For most non-obese adults, 1 oz of sunscreen is sufficient to adequately cover skin and provide sufficient sun protection.

**G - Use waterproof sunscreen** - Sunscreen that is “water resistant” or “very water resistant” can provide SPF protection for up to 40 or 80 minutes, respectively. The terms “waterproof” or “sweatproof” can no longer be used to market sunscreens, as sunscreen must always be reapplied after the specified period of time to prevent sunburn.

