### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Erythema multiforme** - This patient with recurrent genital HSV and a painful exanthem with target lesions most likely has Erythema multiforme (EM). EM is a type IV hypersensitivity reaction of the skin that can be triggered by certain infections (e.g., HSV, Mycoplasma pneumonia) and medications (e.g., beta-lactam antibiotics, sulfonamides, phenytoin). EM is characterized by lesions of varying morphology (e.g., macules, papules, vesicles) that typically progress to target lesions and spread proximally from the backs of the hands and feet, as seen here. Nikolsky sign is negative and the disease course is self-limiting in most cases.

Image File: 1539-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58807ab709d02.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Eczema herpeticum** - Eczema herpeticum is a complication of atopic dermatitis caused by herpes simplex virus infection and typically manifests as a widespread rash with painful, vesicular lesions. This patient does not have a reported history of atopic dermatitis and the target lesions make this an unlikely diagnosis.

Image File: 1539-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d919aca0d.jpg

**C - Urticaria** - Urticaria (hives) is a type I hypersensitivity reaction that results from IgE-mediated mast cell degranulation. Urticaria is associated with certain medications (e.g., beta-lactam antibiotics) and infections (e.g., Mycoplasma pneumoniae) and typically presents as a pruritic, raised erythematous rash. In contrast to the rash seen in this patient, urticaria is typically painless, well-circumscribed, and usually disappears after a few hours. Targetoid skin lesions would also not be expected.

Image File: 1539-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_535fb7e03b91f.jpg

**D - Stevens-Johnson syndrome** - Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) is a life-threatening type IV hypersensitivity reaction of the skin that can be triggered by certain medications (e.g., beta-lactam antibiotics, sulfonamides, lamotrigine) and infections (e.g., Mycoplasma pneumoniae). SJS can present with a painful rash with targetoid lesions, as seen in this patient. However, skin involvement in SJS is typically localized to the face and trunk. Moreover, this patient lacks other characteristic findings of SJS, such as high fever, epidermal detachment with a positive Nikolsky sign, skin necrosis, and involvement of mucous membranes.

**E - Dermatitis herpetiformis** - Dermatitis herpetiformis is an IgA-mediated skin reaction that is associated with celiac disease and typically presents as a pruritic, painful papulovesicular rash. However, this patient does not have a history of gluten sensitivity, malabsorption, or GI disturbances. Moreover, targetoid skin lesions, which are seen in this patient, would not be expected.

