### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Malignant melanoma** - Malignant melanoma is an aggressive tumor of melanocytes that most commonly develops in areas that have been extensively exposed to the sun. Because malignant melanoma has a high rate of metastasis, early detection and treatment are critical. Pigmented skin lesions should be evaluated based on the ABCDE criteria. The lesion shown is asymmetric and has irregular borders with an indistinct margin. It has variable pigment and has recently increased in size. These features indicate that the most likely diagnosis is melanoma. A full-thickness excisional biopsy can confirm the diagnosis and assess Breslow depth.

Image File: 1540-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_54806bfcaab67.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Dermatofibroma** - Dermatofibromas are benign, slowly growing, painless, skin-colored dermal growths that are most common on the lower extremities. In addition, unlike this patient's lesion, pinching a dermatofibroma typically produces a central dimple.

Image File: 1540-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58a6ce12a3b39.jpg

**C - Keratoacanthoma** - Keratoacanthomas are rapidly growing skin tumors that typically develop in areas that have been extensively exposed to the sun. A keratoacanthoma typically manifests as a round, erythematous nodule with a central hyperkeratotic crater. Unlike this patient's lesion, keratoacanthomas are not typically pigmented.

Image File: 1540-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_593003951b40b.jpg

**D - Lentigo maligna** - Lentigo maligna is a precancerous skin lesion that most commonly develops in areas that have been extensively exposed to the sun. This lesion typically appears as a darkly pigmented macule with irregular borders, variegated color, and so-called “island-like” speckling. Lentigo maligna tends to change gradually over years and can enlarge, change color, and become raised. This patient's lesion has rapidly increased in size and lacks peripheral speckling, making another diagnosis more likely.

Image File: 1540-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d927c6033.jpg

**E - Seborrheic keratosis** - Seborrheic keratoses are the most common benign tumor among the elderly population. Although these tumors can appear darker than the surrounding skin, they are typically multiple, sharply demarcated papules or plaques with a greasy, waxy, and so-called "stuck-on" appearance.

Image File: 1540-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_596e1e1c52da9.jpg

**F - Compound melanocytic nevus** - Compound melanocytic nevi, which are a type of acquired melanocytic nevus, are typically elevated and pigmented, as seen here. However, these lesions also typically have a uniform color as well as uniform borders and surfaces.

**G - Pyogenic granuloma** - Pyogenic granulomas are benign, vascular lesions that typically manifest as a bright red papule that often bleeds profusely after minor trauma. Unlike this patient's lesion, pyogenic granulomas are not typically pigmented.

Image File: 1540-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a82a382a82e2.jpg

**H - Basal cell carcinoma** - Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most common type of skin cancer and can manifest in a pigmented form. However, the most common manifestation of BCC is a lesion that is pearly, indurated, nodular, nontender, and with a rolled border and central ulceration.

Image File: 1540-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d922cb882.jpg

