### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Surgical excision with 1-2 cm safety margins and sentinel lymph node study** - Data suggest that 1–2 cm surgical margins confer the best possible survival advantage for surgically excised superficial spreading melanoma that is 1.01–2 mm thick in Breslow depth. Excision with surgical margins of 1–2 cm are associated with equivalent survival to excision with bigger margins and with improved survival compared to excision with smaller margins. Results from a sentinel lymph node study help with prognosis and regional disease control. These results also determine the necessity of adjuvant treatment and the eligibility of patients for clinical trials. A sentinel lymph node study is recommended if tumor thickness is > 1 mm.

Image File: 1541-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ef0baa0d048a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Surgical excision with 0.5-1 cm safety margins only** - Tumor margins should be larger than 0.5–1 cm to ensure that all cancer cells have been excised. In addition, there is another part of initial treatment and work-up that is necessary for this patient with newly diagnosed superficial spreading melanoma.

**B - Sentinel lymph node study only** - A sentinel lymph node study only would be inappropriate in this case because the superficial spreading melanoma has the potential to invade the dermis and metastasize.

**C - Surgical excision with 1-2 cm safety margins only** - A surgical margin of this size is appropriate since the recommended range for margins is 1–2 cm. However, another part of initial work-up and treatment is necessary for this patient with newly diagnosed superficial spreading melanoma.

**E - Surgical excision with 0.5-1 cm safety margins and sentinel lymph node study** - A margin of this size is not large enough to ensure optimal prognosis for the patient. Results from a sentinel lymph node study help with prognosis and regional disease control. These results also determine the necessity of adjuvant treatment and the eligibility of patients for clinical trials. A sentinel lymph node study is recommended if tumor thickness is > 1 mm, as in this case.

**F - Surgical excision with 1 cm safety margins only** - A surgical margin of this size would be acceptable since the recommended range for margins is 1–2 cm. However, another part of initial work-up and treatment is necessary for this patient with newly diagnosed superficial spreading melanoma.

