### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Perform an HIV screening test and recommend cryotherapy** - Because disseminated molluscum contagiosum in an adult raises concern for underlying immunocompromise, an HIV screening test is indicated for patients presenting with this condition. In the case of HIV infection, antiretroviral therapy should be initiated in conjunction with the treatment of skin lesions. Treatment for disseminated molluscum contagiosum includes cryotherapy, curettage, subcutaneous interferon alfa, and systemic treatment (e.g., intravenous cidofovir). A reasonable initial approach for this patient is to treat the largest and/or most bothersome lesions with cryotherapy, which is a destructive method that can also stimulate an enhanced immune response to viral antigens.

Image File: 1542-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d92b7bbad.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Reassure the patient that the lesions will resolve and recommend follow-up** - Molluscum contagiousum is typically a self-limited disease. However, this patient has widespread involvement, which is consistent with disseminated molluscum contagiosum and unlikely to resolve on its own. She, therefore, requires further management.

**B - Perform a urine pregnancy test and recommend systemic retinoid therapy** - Systemic retinoid therapy with isotretinoin is indicated to treat severe acne vulgaris but is not used to treat molluscum contagiosum. Severe acne vulgaris typically manifests with tender, inflammatory papules, pustules, and cysts on the face and trunk, which this patient does not have. A urine pregnancy test is indicated prior to initiating isotretinoin therapy because of the drug's teratogenic effects.

Image File: 1542-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589b2ef2620e4.jpg

**C - Recommend systemic itraconazole therapy** - Systemic itraconazole therapy can be used to treat invasive fungal infections (e.g., blastomycosis, histoplasmosis, aspergillosis) but is not used to treat molluscum contagiosum, which is caused by a poxvirus. Disseminated fungal infections can manifest with a widespread papular eruption, but they typically have more variable findings (e.g., nodules, ulcers, pustules). In addition, disseminated fungal infections commonly also cause extracutaneous symptoms, such as fever, hepatosplenomegaly, and weight loss, which this patient does not have.

**D - Recommend curettage of the lesions** - Curettage is commonly used to treat localized molluscum contagiosum. Curettage of select lesions (e.g., the most bothersome lesions) may be a reasonable initial approach for this patient with disseminated molluscum contagiosum, but it may also result in multiple, large wounds that increase the risk of developing other infections. In addition, treatment alone without evaluation of possible immune system dysfunction is inappropriate in patients with extensive lesions.

**E - Recommend topical salicylic acid therapy** - Topical salicylic acid is a desquamating agent used as a second-line therapy for localized molluscum contagiosum; it is not an appropriate therapy for this patient with disseminated molluscum contagiosum. Salicylic acid is also commonly used to treat acne vulgaris and verruca vulgaris. Acne vulgaris typically manifests with tender, inflammatory papules and pustules on the face. Verruca vulgaris typically manifests with cauliflower-like papules and/or plaques on acral surfaces.

