### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Surgical debridement** - Tenderness, swelling, erythema, black skin, and wound dehiscence suggest skin necrosis at the incision site. The first step in management of skin necrosis is debridement of the affected area. Failure to debride necrotic skin can lead to the spread of infection and further wound dehiscence.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Nafcillin therapy** - Nafcillin is commonly used to treat methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus infections (e.g., cellulitis, erysipelas, endocarditis, etc.), but has a very narrow spectrum of activity and lacks MRSA coverage. Though broader spectrum antibiotics are indicated for this patient, it is imperative to remove devitalized, necrotic tissue that may impair wound healing.

**C - Skin grafting** - Skin grafting is useful in cases of extensive skin loss or in large areas of necrosis. This patient's necrosis is currently confined to the incision site. Skin grafting may be indicated in the future if the wound heals poorly or if the patient develops a widespread infection originating from the necrotic skin.

**D - Removal of prostheses** - Removal of the prosthesis may be indicated depending on the depth of necrosis, but would not be appropriate if the necrosis is superficially confined to the skin.

**E - Vacuum dressing** - A vacuum dressing (negative-pressure wound dressing) accelerates wound healing by increasing blood flow and reducing the amount of inflammatory mediators. However, it does not restore blood flow to necrotized skin and should not be used on an infected wound.

**F - Antiseptic dressing** - Antiseptic dressings are commonly used in the treatment of small, dirty wounds (e.g., minor cuts, scrapes) to prevent infection. This type of dressing is insufficient for large necrotic, infected wounds.

