### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Protein C concentrate** - Protein C concentrate is used as part of the emergency treatment to reverse this patient's warfarin-induced skin necrosis. This complication occurs in the early phase of warfarin therapy when anticoagulant factors, proteins C and S, are depleted faster than procoagulant factors, inducing a hypercoagulable state that can lead to the development of microthrombi. Individuals with protein C deficiency are at increased risk for this complication. Immediate management includes discontinuation of warfarin and administration of intravenous vitamin K, heparin, and a source of protein C (protein C concentrate or FFP). In cases of full-thickness skin necrosis, extensive lesions may require debridement and skin grafting.

Warfarin-induced skin necrosis can be prevented by simultaneously administering heparin until the warfarin has begun to act (bridging therapy).

Image File: 1550-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5be3047d48b2b.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Topical clobetasol** - Topical clobetasol is the first-line treatment for bullous pemphigoid, an autoimmune condition characterized by large, intensely pruritic, fluid-filled skin lesions. Although bullous pemphigoid most commonly occurs in this patient's age group, it is not associated with extensive skin necrosis. Topical clobetasol would not be beneficial in the management of warfarin-induced skin necrosis.

Image File: 1550-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d923338c9.jpg

**B - Hyperbaric oxygen** - Hyperbaric oxygen therapy can be used as adjunctive therapy in patients with necrotizing fasciitis. Necrotizing fasciitis of the external genitals is called Fournier gangrene and manifests with extensive necrosis of deep tissue (subcutaneous tissue, fascia, and muscle) that can develop into a life-threatening condition within hours. Although this patient's diabetes puts him at increased risk for this condition, his 1-day history of painful enlarging bruises and skin ulcerations suggests warfarin-induced skin necrosis rather than necrotizing fasciitis. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy is not used to treat this complication of warfarin therapy.

Image File: 1550-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d919996c0.jpg

**D - Argatroban** - Argatroban can be used to treat heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) type II. The start of warfarin in the setting of HIT has been associated with an increased risk of warfarin-induced skin necrosis. However, this condition cannot be reversed by treatment with argatroban.

Image File: 1550-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d972d7c5e42b.jpg

**E - Tranexamic acid** - Tranexamic acid is an antifibrinolytic agent used to reduce excessive blood loss from major bleeding (e.g., severe trauma, menorrhagia) or hyperfibrinolysis (e.g., due to surgery in tPA-rich organs, sepsis). However, it would not be beneficial in the management of this patient's warfarin-induced skin necrosis, which results from transient hypercoagulability.

Image File: 1550-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e5fa7e8238dc.jpg

**F - Vancomycin** - Empiric antibiotic therapy with vancomycin is used in patients with suspected infective endocarditis (IE). IE can manifest with skin lesions secondary to infectious thrombi, such as Osler Nodes and Janeway lesions. These lesions, however, are typically seen on the palms and soles, not the thighs or external genitalia. Although this patient's mitral regurgitation puts him at increased risk for IE, extensive skin necrosis, which is seen here, would not be expected. Antibiotic therapy is not used to treat warfarin-induced skin necrosis.

Image File: 1550-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59a3f03b9bfa1.jpg

