### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Discontinue carbamazepine** - Carbamazepine is a common antiepileptic drug used for the treatment of both generalized seizures and focal seizures. In rare cases, it can also cause an acute drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome (HSS), which may present with fever, and a diffuse morbilliform rash that progresses to a confluent erythema with accentuation of the hair follicles, as well as facial edema, and lymphadenopathy. HSS usually develops 2–8 weeks after initiating treatment and is also referred to as drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) as further symptoms include hematologic abnormalities (e.g., leukocytosis with eosinophilia), and internal organ involvement (e.g., hepatitis, pneumonitis, nephritis). Carbamazepine should be discontinued immediately and this patient should now transition to a different antiepileptic medication (e.g., valproic acid) to avoid life-threatening complications.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Perform measles serology** - Acute measles infection is characterized by fever, malaise, cough, coryza, and conjunctivitis (remember: the three Cs of measles), and is followed by exanthem and generalized lymphadenopathy 2–4 days after the onset of fever. Diagnosis of acute infection is based on serology for measles-specific IgM in serum or saliva. Although this patient may have been exposed to measles and may not be immunized, he lacks most of the hallmark features of the disease and the time course of his symptoms would not be consistent with this diagnosis.

Image File: 1551-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_54575982416bd.jpg

**C - Heterophile antibody test** - The heterophile antibody test (monospot test) is the diagnostic test of choice for infectious mononucleosis. Infectious mononucleosis can manifest with fever, lymphadenopathy (usually cervical but can be generalized), and a rash (typically prompted by administration of aminopenicillin). However, the absence of other hallmark features of the disease such as fatigue, splenomegaly, and pharyngotonsillitis make this diagnosis unlikely in this patient.

Image File: 1551-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d90f7f3fc.jpg

**D - Administer penicillin therapy** - Penicillin would be indicated for scarlet fever, which classically presents in patients 5–15 years old with fever, pharyngeal erythema, and a scarlet-colored rash that is most pronounced in the groin, underarm, and elbow creases. Although this patient presents with a rash and fever, he lacks pharyngitis and his rash is diffuse rather than localized to intertriginous areas. Moreover, the facial edema and lymphadenopathy would not be consistent with scarlet fever.

Image File: 1551-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57c994ce88f45.jpg

**E - Perform rapid plasma reagin test** - RPR is a first-line test for syphilis, which primarily affects males in their twenties. Secondary syphilis can present with generalized lymphadenopathy and a polymorphic, copper-colored, maculopapular rash, which classically affects the soles and palms. The peak incidence is in men between 20–29 years of age. Although this patient presents with a diffuse rash, it does not affect the palms or soles. Moreover, this patient lacks other findings of secondary syphilis (e.g., condyloma lata, myalgia). Finally, as an 11-year-old, this patient is unlikely to have a sexually transmitted infection.

Image File: 1551-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d95350d25.jpg

**F - Administer topical miconazole** - Administration of topical miconazole is indicated in fungal infections, such as tinea. Tinea is a superficial dermatophyte infection characterized by scaly patches and is classified based upon the affected region. It is caused by the dermatophytes Trichophyton, Microsporum, and Epidermophyton. It usually spreads by skin contact, contact with infected animals, or contaminated items. This patient presents with a diffuse rash that does not show scaly patches.

**G - Perform rickettsial serology** - Rickettsial serologic studies are mainly useful for confirming the diagnosis of Rocky Mountain spotted fever after treatment has already begun. His outdoor-exposure puts this patient at risk of tick-borne illnesses, including RMSF. Although RMSF presents with a diffuse rash, it usually starts at the extremities and progresses towards the trunk before progressing to pruritic papules and petechiae. Unlike in this patient, the face is only rarely involved. Besides fever, this patient does not have typical signs of the disease such as a history of tick bite, severe headache, malaise, abdominal pain, conjunctivitis, nausea, and/or vomiting, making RMSF an unlikely diagnosis.

