### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Topical metronidazole** - Topical metronidazole has antibiotic, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant properties and is effective in improving the erythematous and papular lesions of rosacea. The underlying pathophysiology of rosacea is unclear. Other effective topical therapies for this condition include azelaic acid (anti-inflammatory), brimonidine (alpha-adrenergic agonist), sodium sulfacetamide (antibacterial), and ivermectin (anti-inflammatory and antiparasitic). Therapies for more severe or refractory disease include oral tetracyclines, oral isotretinoin, and laser therapy. All patients with rosacea should be counseled to avoid triggers, which include sun exposure, hot weather, alcohol, spicy foods, and stress.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Topical corticosteroids** - Topical corticosteroid therapy may initially improve the erythema and telangiectasias of rosacea due to their anti-inflammatory and vasoconstrictive effects. However, they should not be used to treat rosacea because of the risk of adverse effects of chronic corticosteroid use and rebound flares upon drug discontinuation.

**B - Topical benzoyl peroxide** - Benzoyl peroxide is an antimicrobial agent with comedolytic properties that is mainly used to treat acne vulgaris. Acne vulgaris commonly occurs in younger individuals and is typically characterized by numerous papules, pustules, and comedones on the face, neck, shoulders, and back. This patient's age, characteristic location of lesions on the central face, and absence of comedones make rosacea the more likely diagnosis. Benzoyl peroxide is not commonly used to treat rosacea.

Image File: 1554-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f2cee87cab7f.jpg

**C - Oral doxycycline** - Oral tetracyclines (e.g., doxycycline, tetracycline, minocycline) are used to treat moderate to severe rosacea that involves several inflammatory papules and/or pustules. Systemic therapy is not appropriate for this patient, who only has scant papules on examination and has not tried other therapies with fewer adverse effects.

**D - Oral isotretinoin** - Oral isotretinoin may be considered in patients with refractory rosacea that does not respond to other treatments. It is not used as a first-line agent due to its adverse effect profile (e.g., dry skin and mucous membranes, teratogenicity).

**E - Oral hydroxychloroquine** - Oral hydroxychloroquine is used to treat systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) because of its anti-inflammatory and immune-modulating effects. The malar rash of SLE is characterized by erythema of the face, nose, and cheeks that worsens with sun exposure and after alcohol consumption. However, the presence of papules and telangiectasias and absence of other common symptoms of SLE (e.g., arthritis, fatigue) make this diagnosis unlikely. This patient has rosacea, a condition for which oral hydroxychloroquine has no role in treatment.

