### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Eczema herpeticum** - This patient's symptoms (fever, malaise, lymphadenopathy) and his rash indicate eczema herpeticum, a cutaneous manifestation of herpes infection (usually HSV-1 or HSV-2). This condition is associated with pre-existing skin conditions, most often atopic dermatitis. Eczema herpeticum is considered a dermatological emergency because the rash on the patient's shoulder can disseminate rapidly. Treatment with oral or IV acyclovir should be initiated as soon as possible.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bed bug bites** - Crowded living conditions are a risk factor for bed bug infestations. However, bed bug bites take the form of painless papules that becomes itchy and resolve spontaneously within a week. They are typically found on skin that is exposed during sleep.

**B - Nonbullous impetigo** - Nonbullous impetigo may cause a rash that progresses from papules to small vesicles surrounded by erythema followed by pustules that rupture. However, nonbullous impetigo primarily occurs in young children (2–6 years), is generally not painful, and is not usually accompanied by fever and malaise.

Image File: 1555-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57c971814c307.jpg

**C - Stevens-Johnson syndrome** - Stevens-Johnson syndrome causes a rash associated with fever and malaise and is often triggered by infection (e.g., mycoplasma, herpes simplex virus). However, the rash in this patient is papular in nature, unlike the blistering rash observed in Stevens-Johnson syndrome. Moreover, the rash of Stevens-Johnson syndrome typically involves sloughing and the mucosal membranes are almost always involved.

Image File: 1555-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55360003e7b86.jpg

**E - Shingles** - Shingles is associated with a rash in a dermatomal distribution, typically affecting 1–3 dermatomes on one side of the body. Most patients report severe burning or throbbing pain that is followed by a rash. The rash is initially maculopapular on an erythematous base and quickly progresses to a vesicular rash. Crusting and involution typically occur after 7–10 days. This patient's immunizations are up-to-date and should include the chickenpox vaccine.

Image File: 1555-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57c97d5a067d6.jpg

**F - Scabies** - Scabies typically affects the interdigital folds, wrists, and ankles, and patients classically have intense pruritus that is worst at night. Although crowded, unsanitary living conditions are a risk factor for this condition, the rash associated with scabies is not painful. Moreover, fever, malaise, and lymphadenopathy would not be expected.

Image File: 1555-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_559560d35530f.jpg

**G - Chickenpox** - Chickenpox is a highly contagious viral illness that typically manifests with a widespread, pruritic rash that initially involves the trunk and quickly spreads to the face, scalp, and extremities. This patient's underlying skin condition puts him at an increased risk of developing a severe form of chickenpox and complications such as bacterial superinfection and scarring. However, his immunizations are up-to-date and should include the chickenpox vaccine.

Image File: 1555-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f22ec1f44e76.jpg

