### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Inflammation of the pilosebaceous unit** - Inflammation of the pilosebaceous unit is the underlying cause of acne vulgaris, as seen in this patient. Increased sebum production by sebaceous glands due to hormonal stimulation (i.e., increased androgen production in puberty, menstrual cycle), and accumulating keratin debris due to increased keratinocyte activity leads to blockage of the pilosebaceous duct, resulting in the formation of comedones. In addition, colonization with Cutibacterium acnes induces an inflammatory reaction that leads to the formation of papules, nodules, pustules, and/or cysts. Individuals with a genetic predisposition are particularly susceptible and environmental factors (i.e., diet, certain drugs, climate) are also thought to play a role. As a highly visible skin disorder that most commonly affects the face and torso, acne vulgaris can cause significant psychological impairment.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Disseminated infection with a spirochete** - Disseminated infection with the spirochete Treponema pallidum causes secondary syphilis, which can also manifest with a nonpruritic papular rash that involves the back. However, the rash seen in patients with syphilis is more commonly maculopapular and generalized rather than papulopustular and confined to the face and back; in addition, the entire trunk, extremities, palms, and soles are usually affected, with the face typically being spared. Finally, this patient lacks additional features of secondary syphilis such as generalized lymphadenopathy, constitutional symptoms, condylomata lata, and patchy alopecia.

Image File: 1559-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59240a099b9b3.jpg

**B - Hyperreactivity of cutaneous blood vessels** - Hyperreactivity of cutaneous blood vessels has been implicated in the pathogenesis of rosacea, which can also manifest with papules and pustules. Skin manifestations in rosacea are more commonly localized to the central face rather than the forehead, and comedones are not present. Additional symptoms of rosacea include facial flushing and erythema, phymatous changes, and ocular involvement, none of which are seen in this patient. Finally, rosacea most commonly affects patients aged 30–60 years old.

Image File: 1559-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91a499df.jpg

**C - Colonization of hair follicles by gram-negative rods** - Colonization of hair follicles by gram-negative rods such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa can lead to folliculitis and potentially manifest with papules and pustules. Although most cases of folliculitis are caused by S. aureus, infection with P. aeruginosa is sometimes seen after exposure to contaminated water (“hot tub folliculitis”). This patient has no recent history of exposure to inadequately disinfected pools or hot tubs. Moreover, the papules and pustules associated with Pseudomonas folliculitis are located at the site of hair follicles (with one or multiple hairs emerging from the lesion) and the eruption is more common in the trunk, buttocks, and extremities, while the face is usually spared. Finally, comedones, as seen in this patient, are not present in individuals with folliculitis.

Image File: 1559-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59b938c9d2672.jpg

**E - Superficial infection with a dermatophytic fungus** - Superficial infection with a dermatophytic fungus can cause different types of tinea. In rare cases, the facial skin can be affected (tinea faciei) and presents with papules and pustules, both of which are seen in this patient. However, tinea more commonly causes round, erythematous, pruritic plaques with raised borders and a central clearing, unlike the lesions seen here. Additionally, tinea usually spares the face and, instead, affects other areas of the skin (torso, groin, or feet), hair, or nails.

Image File: 1559-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f842303e7825.jpg

**F - Mutation of a tumor supressor gene** - A mutation of a tumor suppressor gene is the underlying etiology of tuberous sclerosis, which can also manifest with erythematous papules on the face (adenoma sebaceous). However, these papules are more common around the nose and cheeks rather than the forehead and usually appear early in life (between 3–4 years of age). Additionally, comedones are not seen in patients with adenoma sebaceum. Finally, most patients with tuberous sclerosis present with neurological findings (e.g., epilepsy due to brain tumors, cognitive deficits, learning disabilities), which are not seen here.

**G - Delayed hypersensitivity reaction to a topically applied substance** - Delayed hypersensitivity reaction to a topically applied substance is the underlying mechanism of allergic contact dermatitis, which can also manifest with a papular rash at the site of exposure to a cosmetic product. However, this condition presents 12–48 hours after repeated contact with an allergen rather than after initial contact and usually resolves with avoidance of the antigen; this patient has a 1-year history of cutaneous lesions. Additionally, the rash in contact dermatitis is often intensely pruritic, erythematous, and, in severe cases, vesicular; contact dermatitis does not manifest with comedones.

Image File: 1559-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d919a30c3.jpg

