### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Apply topical calamine preparation** - Calamine is a zinc-based compound used as an antipruritic in conditions like insect bites, dermatitis, and rashes. Topical preparations like calamine are used for symptomatic relief in poison ivy dermatitis in the initial stages. Once the vesicles start oozing fluid, astringents containing aluminium acetate are commonly used.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer oral ivermectin** - Ivermectin is used to treat scabies, pediculosis, and filariasis. Scabies presents with itching and erythematous papules in areas like the interdigital folds on the hands and feet, buttocks, and genital areas as opposed to plaques and vesicles localized to the arms. Additionally, no mite burrows are seen in the picture, making scabies unlikely in this man. Ivermectin will not help relieve his symptoms.

**B - Counsel patient on alcohol intake** - Counseling patients on alcohol intake is an important element in preventive medicine, especially in conditions like porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT) that are exacerbated by alcohol. PCT commonly presents with blisters and erosions in sun-exposed areas – not the plaques and vesicles limited to the upper extremities seen above. Moreover, individuals with PCT have reddish-colored urine, which this man does not have. Alcohol cessation will not help his symptoms.

**D - Administer oral prednisone** - Oral prednisone may be used in poison ivy dermatitis if the individual has severe or refractory symptoms, or if the rash covers a large or sensitive (face or genitals) area of the body, but this is not the case here. This patient has a short history of a limited rash, with no history of failed treatment attempts. Therefore, another step in management is more appropriate for this case.

**E - Administer oral cetirizine** - Cetirizine is a second-generation antihistamine used for symptomatic relief of allergies, urticaria, and rhinitis. The itching in poison ivy dermatitis is due to a type 4 hypersensitivity reaction, which has a different pathophysiology than the type 1 hypersensitivity reactions that antihistamines are best suited to treat. However, sedating antihistamines may be used in those who have difficulty sleeping due to the itching or in more severe cases.

**F - Discontinue mesalazine suppositories** - Mesalazine is an aminosalicylate used to treat inflammatory bowel disease. While mesalazine can cause urticarial rashes or fixed drug eruption (FDE), which can present with erythematous plaques, the first onset of FDE occurs within 2 weeks of exposure to the drug. Additionally, it tends to recur with each exposure to the drug. This man has no history of rashes while using mesalazine. Discontinuing it is not likely to help his pruritus and may actually worsen his ulcerative colitis.

