### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Autoimmune melanocyte destruction** - Vitiligo is a common skin condition that is thought to be caused by autoimmune destruction of melanocytes. The areas of depigmentation commonly involve the face (e.g., perioral and periocular regions), neck, scalp, acral surfaces (e.g., hands), extensor surfaces, or genitalia. Vitiligo is generally a clinical diagnosis. It may be a sign of an autoimmune disorder (e.g., autoimmune thyroiditis, type 1 diabetes mellitus, pernicious anemia), and patients with vitiligo should be tested for thyroid dysfunction and markers of autoimmune disease (e.g., ANA).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cutaneous mosaicism** - Cutaneous mosaicism is seen in nevus depigmentosus, which would typically present by early childhood as a solitary, nonprogressive, hypopigmented macule with serrated borders. This patient has multiple, progressively enlarging, ivory-white/depigmented lesions with nonserrated borders, which first appeared in adolescence.

**B - Malassezia globosa infection** - Malassezia globosa infection causes tinea versicolor, which can manifest with well-defined hypopigmented macules on the chest and abdomen. However, the lesions are smaller (measuring a few millimeters), have a fine, powdery scale, and are usually only mildly hypomelanotic (unlike the depigmented ivory-white lesions in this patient).

Image File: 1565-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94f445b2.jpg

**C - Tyrosinase deficiency** - A deficiency of tyrosinase is the most common cause of oculocutaneous albinism, which would result in depigmentation. However, depigmentation would have been present since birth and would affect the entire skin, unlike the patchy involvement of skin in this patient. In addition, patients usually have a history of visual impairment, as well as depigmented hair and light blue, translucent irises.

**E - Increased mTOR signalling** - Overactivation of the mTOR signaling pathway is seen in tuberous sclerosis because the proteins tuberin and hamartin, which inhibit the mTOR pathway, are nonfunctional in this syndrome. Tuberous sclerosis can cause multiple, oval/polygonal, hypopigmented macules (ash-leaf macules) on the trunk. However, these macules would have already appeared during infancy or early childhood, and other features such as Shagreen patches, angiofibromas (adenoma sebaceum), developmental delay, a history of seizures and/or intellectual disability would be present by the time the patient reached adolescence.

Image File: 1565-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60cb03a262054.jpg

**F - Mycobacterum leprae infection** - Mycobacterium leprae causes leprosy, which can manifest with hypopigmented macules. Also, a history of migration from Indonesia is a risk factor for leprosy. However, the skin lesions would be insensate, and other features such as nerve thickening would be present.

**G - Hyalinization of the dermis** - Hyalinization of the dermis can be seen in patients with lichen sclerosus, which can manifest with well-defined, ivory-white lesions. However, lichen sclerosis causes itchy papules or plaques with wrinkling of the epidermis (unlike the nonpruritic macules with normal skin texture in this patient), typically occurs in females, and more commonly affects the genital region.

Image File: 1565-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5272a95b8e5c5.jpg

**H - Postinflammatory depigmentation** - Inflammatory skin lesions (e.g., eczema, herpes zoster) can cause hypopigmentation after the inflammation resolves. However, this patient does not have a history of any cutaneous disorder.

