### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Oral amoxicillin-clavulanate therapy** - Acute dacryocystitis is most commonly caused by gram-positive cocci (staphylococci, streptococci). Oral antibiotics with gram-positive coverage, such as amoxicillin-clavulanate, would be the first-line empirical therapy in a patient with mild to moderate acute dacryocystitis. As this patient has no features of severe infection, i.e., fever or features of orbital cellulitis (restricted, painful eye movement or diplopia), oral antibiotics are an appropriate treatment option. Warm compresses and NSAIDs are also used to decrease pain and inflammation.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Dacryocystorhinostomy** - Dacryocystorhinostomy (DCR) is often indicated in patients who develop acute (or chronic) dacryocystitis, since the underlying cause is usually a nasolacrimal duct obstruction. However, DCR should be deferred until the active infection has subsided. Because this patient has features of active infection (erythema, warmth, purulent discharge from the lower punctum), DCR is not indicated at this stage.

**B - Nasolacrimal duct probing** - Nasolacrimal duct (NLD) probing is contraindicated in acute dacryocystitis to avoid spreading the infection. NLD probing may be used in combination with dacryocystography to localize the site of obstruction in patients with chronic dacryocystitis. However, chronic dacryocystitis does not cause localized signs of inflammation (erythema, warmth, tenderness).

**C - Topical ciprofloxacin** - Dacryostenosis is the usual underlying cause of acute dacryocystitis. Topical antibiotics will therefore be unable to reach the site of the infection (i.e., the lacrimal sac) due to the stasis of tears.

**D - Lacrimal sac massage** - An obstructed nasolacrimal duct (NLD) is often the underlying cause of dacryocystitis. Lacrimal sac massage is effective in the management of congenital dacryostenosis, as the obstruction is caused by a persistent mucosal fold within the NLD. However, acquired dacryostenosis, which is often due to concretions, post-inflammatory stenosis or granulomatous diseases, cannot be treated with lacrimal sac massage.

**E - Intravenous ceftriaxone** - Empirical IV ceftriaxone is indicated in patients with acute dacryocystitis involving systemic symptoms (i.e., fever) or complications (e.g., orbital cellulitis, cavernous sinus thrombosis). Clinical features of orbital cellulitis include exophthalmos, ophthalmoplegia, and diplopia, while those of cavernous sinus thrombosis include headache, periorbital edema, proptosis, and third, fourth, fifth, and/or sixth cranial nerve palsies. None of these features are present in this patient.

**F - Irrigation of lacrimal cannaliculi** - Irrigation of the lacrimal canaliculi (lacrimal syringing) is painful and may spread the infection to surrounding tissues. It is therefore not recommended in acute dacryocystitis.

**H - CT scan of the orbit** - A CT scan of the orbit might be indicated for suspected orbital cellulitis and would show inflammatory stranding of the orbital fat and edema of the extraocular muscles. Patients with orbital cellulitis have fever, exophthalmos, ophthalmoplegia, and diplopia, none of which are present in this patient.

