### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Evaluating the prosthetic fit** - This patient has a superficial stump ulcer without signs of necrosis or infection (normal vital signs, nontender ulcer, nonpurulent drainage, and no signs of surrounding inflammation). Stump ulcers can develop due to friction and repetitive pressure from a prosthesis with suboptimal fit, which may be exacerbated by a sudden increase in activity level, such as the start of physical therapy in this patient. Management of a noninfected, non-necrotic stump ulcer includes pressure relief, painstaking skin care, frequent wound checks, and ensuring a proper prosthetic socket fit. To achieve and maintain a proper, individualized fit, which is especially important in patients with risk factors for poor wound healing (e.g., diabetes, peripheral neuropathy, poor circulation), regular evaluation with socket and liner modifications as needed is recommended.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Bone biopsy** - A bone biopsy is used to confirm the diagnosis of osteomyelitis and to obtain specimens for Gram staining and culture and sensitivity testing, as the culture yield from wound swabs is low and frequently contaminated with normal skin flora. Osteomyelitis may develop due to contiguous spread from an infected full-thickness stump ulcer. However, this afebrile patient's ulcer is superficial, nontender, draining nonpurulent fluid, and does not show signs of adjacent infection. Therefore, it is unlikely the ulcer or adjacent tissues are infected.

**C - Wound swab for culture** - A wound swab for culture is indicated for stump ulcers that become infected. Signs of an infected ulcer include fever, pain, purulent drainage, foul odor, and surrounding tenderness, erythema, swelling, and warmth, which are not seen here. This afebrile patient's ulcer is nontender, draining serous fluid, and not showing signs of adjacent infection. It is, therefore, unlikely to be infected.

**D - Above-the-knee amputation** - Above-the-knee amputation is generally the last resort reserved for nonhealing, necrotic, or limb/life-threatening infections (e.g., necrotizing fasciitis) or chronic limb-threatening ischemia that has failed to respond to all other treatments. This afebrile patient's ulcer is nontender, draining nonpurulent fluid, and does not show signs of necrosis or adjacent infection. Therefore, it has a good chance of healing with appropriate conservative management.

**E - Surgical debridement** - Surgical debridement is indicated in the management of ulcers that are nonhealing, necrotic, increasing in size, or complicated by deep infections. This afebrile patient's ulcer is nontender, draining nonpurulent fluid, and does not show signs of necrosis or adjacent infection. Therefore, it has a good chance of healing with appropriate conservative management.

**F - Oral clindamycin** - Oral clindamycin is an antibiotic that is commonly prescribed empirically for skin and soft tissue infections after culture specimens have been collected (e.g., wound swab, blood cultures). Signs of an infected ulcer include fever, pain, purulent drainage, foul odor, and surrounding tenderness, erythema, swelling, and warmth, which are not seen here. This afebrile patient's ulcer is nontender, draining serous fluid, and not showing signs of adjacent infection. It is, therefore, unlikely to be infected.

