### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Interfollicular penetration of the skin by distal end of hair** - Pseudofolliculitis barbae primarily affects African American men and is characterized by an inflammatory reaction to ingrown hairs (e.g., after shaving). The hair either enters the interfollicular epidermis after exiting the follicular orifice (extrafollicular penetration) or penetrates the dermis before exiting the follicular orifice (transfollicular penetration). The resulting inflammatory reaction against the hair leads to the characteristic finding of painful papules distributed along the areas of facial hair growth. Management of pseudofolliculitis barbae includes cessation of shaving and adjunctive topical therapies (e.g., topical corticosteroids to reduce inflammation and antimicrobial therapy to treat secondary infection).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Trichophyton infection of the superficial hair follicle** - Trichophyton (dermatophyte) infection of the superficial hair follicle of the beard area causes tinea barbae, which can manifest with pustules. However, this condition more typically causes an inflamed region with an enlarging, raised, erythematous ring with a clear center and elevated edges. There is often associated hair loss.

Image File: 1569-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58458dc407e03.jpg

**B - Cutibacterium acnes colonization of the pilosebaceous unit** - Cutibacterium acnes colonization of the pilosebaceous unit causes acne vulgaris, which manifests primarily on the face with inflammatory papules, pustules, nodules, and comedones. This patient does not have comedones, and the distribution of lesions is atypical for acne vulgaris.

Image File: 1569-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f2cee87cab7f.jpg

**C - Follicular obstruction with subsequent duct rupture** - Follicular obstruction with subsequent duct rupture is characteristic of hidradenitis suppurativa. This condition most often affects the intertriginous areas (e.g., axillary, groin, perineal regions) and is associated with fistula formation, scarring, and foul odor, which are not seen in this case.

**E - Bacterial infection of the superficial or deep hair follicle** - Bacterial folliculitis is characterized predominantly by pustules and erythematous papules on hair-growing areas of the skin, not by the firm, dark papules as seen in this case.

