### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Administer oral amoxicillin-clavulanate** - Following a deep puncture wound from a cat bite, antibiotic prophylaxis should be provided to prevent abscess formation and serious infections such as osteomyelitis, septic arthritis of nearby joints, infectious tenosynovitis, and bacteremia. Amoxicillin-clavulanate is effective against most bacteria present in feline saliva, including Pasteurella multocida. In addition to antibiotics, the wound should be thoroughly irrigated with saline. The wound should then be left open to allow drainage and healing by secondary intention.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Obtain a wound culture** - Wound culture can be performed to identify the bacteria responsible for infection, which ensures selection of an appropriate antibiotic. However, since this patient's wound does not appear infected (e.g., no purulent drainage, surrounding erythema, warmth, or necrotic tissue), wound culture is not indicated.

**C - Close the wound surgically** - Bite wounds should be left open to heal by secondary intention to allow spontaneous drainage and prevent deep infection. Surgical wound closure is only recommended for bite wounds that are large and/or disfiguring, e.g., wounds of the face. This patient's wounds do not meet criteria for surgical closure and should be left open.

**D - Provide reassurance** - Bite wounds from cats carry a significant risk of infection. Given the potentially serious complications (e.g., abscess, osteomyelitis, septic arthritis, infectious tenosynovitis), reassurance alone is not appropriate.

**E - Close the wound with cyanoacrylate tissue adhesive** - Tissue adhesive can be considered in the closure of small, clean skin lacerations. However, tissue adhesive should be avoided in wounds in highly mobile areas, such as on the hands or over joints (as in this patient). In addition, other than in special circumstances (e.g., large wounds, cosmetic concerns, facial wounds), bite wounds should generally be left open to heal by secondary intention and allow spontaneous drainage, which prevents infection.

**F - Administer the rabies vaccine** - Rabies vaccine and immunoglobulin should be given to any patient bitten by a potentially rabies-infected animal. Concerning animal types include bats, raccoons, skunks, foxes, and unvaccinated domestic animals. In the case of a bite from an unvaccinated pet, a 10 day observation period is recommended. Postexposure prophylaxis is only recommended if the animal develops signs of rabies (e.g., agitation, aggression, seizures, paralysis) within that time.

**G - Administer tetanus toxoid and tetanus IV immunoglobulin** - Bite wounds are tetanus-prone wounds, and tetanus toxoid vaccine should be given if the patient's last booster was more than five years ago (as is likely in this patient). However, tetanus immunoglobulin is only indicated if patients have had less than 3 tetanus toxoid doses. This patient received all childhood immunizations (which typically includes 3 doses of the tetanus vaccine). Therefore, she does not require tetanus immunoglobulin.

**H - Administer oral cephalexin** - Bite wounds from cats carry a significant risk of infection with Pasteurella multocida, a bacteria commonly found in feline oral flora. While cephalexin is effective against some gram-negative bacteria, it is less effective against P. multocida and is not indicated for this type of injury.

