### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Topical miconazole** - Miconazole is used to treat several fungal infections, including vulvovaginal candidiasis and tinea corporis. Tinea corporis is a skin infection caused by dermatophytes of the Trichophyton (most common), Microsporum, and Epidermophyton genera. Dermatophytes grow best in moist environments such as public swimming pool facilities; the patient's job as lifeguard, therefore, predisposes him to the condition.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral amoxicillin** - Oral amoxicillin is used in the treatment of Lyme disease in pediatric and pregnant/lactating patients. Lyme disease often manifests with an erythematous, circular rash with central clearing, as seen in this patient. However, the rash is usually characterized by a single annular lesion around the tick bite, is flat without elevated borders, and is not pruritic. Antibiotic treatment is not indicated in the treatment of this patient's condition.

Image File: 1571-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5639fcbd73947.jpg

**B - Topical erythromycin** - Topical erythromycin is used in the treatment of acne vulgaris and skin infections such as erythrasma. Erythrasma is a superficial bacterial infection caused by Corynebacterium minutissimum that causes scaly, pruritic, hyperpigmented or erythematous patches, as seen in this patient. However, the lesions typically appear in intertriginous areas, such as the axilla or between fingers, and are not characterized by central clearing.

Image File: 1571-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93d9f5c1.jpg

**C - Phototherapy** - Targeted phototherapy is used in the treatment of some cutaneous diseases, including psoriasis and vitiligo. Psoriasis manifests with erythematous, scaly plaques, as seen in this patient. However, the plaques are usually silvery, occur predominantly on the scalp, elbows, and knees, and are not associated with central clearing or raised borders. Additionally, psoriasis is often associated with other findings, such as nail abnormalities or psoriatic arthritis, which are not seen in this patient.

Image File: 1571-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5509770b814f8.jpg

**E - Topical hydrocortisone** - Topical hydrocortisone is used for a variety of cutaneous conditions, including psoriasis, allergic reactions, and eczema/atopic dermatitis. Skin manifestations of allergic reactions manifest with an acute onset of hives, whereas atopic dermatitis manifests during infancy with dry skin and an intensely pruritic rash that involves the face, scalp, and the extremities, neither of which are seen in this patient. Topical hydrocortisone is not indicated in the treatment of this patient's condition.

Image File: 1571-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d953ea2dd.jpg

**F - Parenteral benzathine penicillin** - This patient's sexual history increases his risk for syphilis, which is treated by penicillin G benzathine. Secondary syphilis typically manifests with cutaneous involvement in the form of a generalized nonpruritic, scaly, papulosquamous rash. However, though the lesions can develop a central clearing, they are usually much smaller than those of tinea corporis.

Image File: 1571-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94bb5c36.jpg

**G - Reassurance** - There are several dermatologic diseases that do not require treatment, such as pityriasis rosea. Pityriasis rosea is a common disorder that arises spontaneously and is usually self-limited. Patients present with asymptomatic or pruritic scaly plaques and possibly a central clearing, as in this patient. However, lesions are usually preceded by a solitary pink or flesh-colored plaque (known as a herald patch or mother patch) and are not associated with raised borders. This patient's presentation and occupational history make a dermatophyte infection more likely. He should be treated accordingly, as the disease does not resolve on its own and spreading of the disease to other individuals should be prevented.

Image File: 1571-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55096c36676d9.jpg

