### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Ask the patient to consult a pest control service** - Bedbug infestations, as seen here, are challenging to eradicate and usually require consulting with pest control professionals. Because of their ability to hide in cracks, crevices, and seams, multiple management methods are typically used and include vacuuming, heat and/or cold treatment for nonwashable items, high-temperature machine washing for washable items, sealing of crevices and cracks, and use of chemical and nonchemical pesticides. Patients with bedbug bites do not require any specific treatment, since skin reactions to bites are self-limited and resolve within 1–2 weeks. If there is significant pruritus, topical corticosteroids and/or oral antihistamines can be prescribed. In patients with impetiginized lesions (due to Staphylococcus aureus superinfection), antibiotic therapy is indicated.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Prescribe oral doxycycline and schedule a follow-up visit** - A single dose of oral doxycycline can be prescribed as prophylaxis for Lyme disease if a deer tick bite (Ixodes scapularis) is suspected. Although tick bites also manifest as small erythematous papules at the tick-feeding site, multiple tick bites are unlikely; tick bites are usually single lesions. Moreover, there is no evidence of a tick bite in this patient and people from the same household are unlikely to be bitten at the same time.

**C - Examine the patient's clothing seams and hair** - Examination of the patient's clothing seams and hair is appropriate when there is suspicion for a lice infestation, which also manifests with pruritus and commonly affects people of the same household. While this patient presents with pruritic, erythematous lesions on his arm and back, predilection sites for lice infestation are the scalp, neck, waist, axilla, and pubic region. Moreover, patients with lice infestation usually have excoriations due to intense pruritus rather than papular lesions. In contrast with lice, human hosts are neither reservoirs nor vectors of bedbugs; examining the patient's hair and current clothing would most likely show no evidence of bedbugs.

Image File: 1574-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57d17d3f73d93.jpg

**D - Prescribe oral fexofenadine and schedule a follow-up visit** - Oral antihistamines (e.g., fexofenadine) can be prescribed to patients with a bedbug infestation, which is seen here, if the patient has significant pruritus. However, the prescription of antihistamine medication along with scheduling a follow-up visit is not the most appropriate next step in managing a bedbug infestation.

**E - Prescribe topical permethrin for the patient and his roommates** - Prescription of topical permethrin for the patient and his roommates (i.e., close contacts) is indicated for the treatment of scabies infestation, which also manifests with erythematous papules and pruritus that is worse at night, and commonly affects people of the same household. However, predilection locations of mite burrows include the flexor surface of the wrists, medial aspect of fingers, and intertriginous areas rather than the arms and back.

Image File: 1574-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60ce029f7d97b.jpg

