### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - No intervention is necessary** - Intervention to prevent a neonate from contracting VZV infection is performed through passive immunization with varicella-zoster immunoglobulin. Postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) with varicella-zoster immunoglobulin is indicated in neonates whose mother was infected between 5 days before and 2 days after birth, premature neonates born after 28 weeks' gestation to a mother with no evidence of immunity to VZV, and in all neonates born before 28 weeks' gestation (regardless of the mother's immunity status). This neonate was born at term to a mother with known evidence of immunity against VZV (i.e., from prior VZV infection) and has a low risk of developing complications from chickenpox, so no intervention is necessary at this time.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Administer specific live-attenuated vaccine** - The varicella vaccine, a live-attenuated vaccine, is used to actively immunize against varicella and is indicated for postexposure prophylaxis in immunocompetent individuals who are not pregnant and not yet immune against varicella. However, the varicella vaccine cannot be used in patients under 12 months of age, so it is contraindicated in this patient.

**C - Administer acyclovir** - Acyclovir is used to treat chickenpox in newborns with disseminated VZV infection. This neonate does not have chickenpox, so treatment with antiviral therapy is not indicated at this point. Acyclovir therapy is also used to treat chickenpox in individuals who are at high risk of developing complications, such as immunocompromised patients, unvaccinated adolescents ≥ 13 years of age, adults, and individuals on long-term salicylate therapy. Acyclovir can be used in the treatment of herpes zoster as well, especially in individuals > 50 years of age, so acyclovir can be recommended for the treatment of this patient's grandfather instead.

**D - Administer specific conjugate polysaccharide vaccine** - Conjugate polysaccharide vaccines include vaccines against Haemophilus influenzae serotype b, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis, and Salmonella typhi. Active immunization against chickenpox is performed with a different type of vaccine.

**E - Administer specific immunoglobulin** - The use of varicella zoster immunoglobulin (passive immunization) as postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) for chickenpox is indicated in neonates whose mother was infected between 5 days before and 2 days after birth, premature neonates born after 28 weeks' gestation to mothers with no evidence of immunity to VZV, or all neonates born before 28 weeks' gestation (regardless of the mother's immunity status). Since this neonate was born at term to a mother with known immunity against VZV, varicella zoster immunoglobulin is not indicated here.

