### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - No further interventions** - Solar lentigo is a benign skin condition commonly seen in older individuals with light skin. Flat, brown macules or patches occur as a result of the overproduction of melanin by existing keratinocytes or from the proliferation of melanocytes caused by prolonged sun exposure. No further interventions are necessary unless patients desire the removal of solar lentigines for cosmetic reasons. Limiting exposure to the sun as well as applying sunscreen can prevent the development of new lesions and decrease the darkening of existing lesions.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Topical imiquimod** - Topical imiquimod can be used in patients with actinic keratosis, a precancerous skin lesion that typically manifests on sun-exposed skin (e.g., the scalp, face, dorsal aspects of the hands or arms) and predominantly affects light-skinned individuals over 50 years of age. However, the lesion is initially small with a rough, sandpaper-like surface, which grows slowly in size and becomes erythematous and scaly. Solar lentigo should be managed differently.

Image File: 1576-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a76f5d027a8f.jpg

**C - Surgical excision with safety margin** - Surgical excision with a safety margin is performed in malignant skin conditions such as melanoma or basal cell carcinoma. However, this patient has solar lentigo, a benign condition caused by chronic solar damage. Surgical excision should be performed when malignancy is suspected, e.g., based on the ABCDE criteria. Chemical peels, cryotherapy, and laser modalities can be used to remove solar lentigo for cosmetic reasons.

Image File: 1576-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55590ee181e18.jpg

**D - Topical corticosteroids** - Topical corticosteroids are used to treat various skin conditions, e.g., psoriasis, eczema, atopic dermatitis, and lichen planus. However, this patient has solar lentigo, a condition characterized by an increase in melanization. A triple combination cream containing steroids, hydroquinone, and tretinoin can be used as an adjuvant to cryotherapy in patients seeking to lighten hyperpigmented areas. Steroid use alone is not indicated in patients with solar lentigo.

**E - Topical hydroxyquinone** - Topical hydroxyquinone is a depigmenting agent that can be used in patients with severe melasma (chloasma). Melasma is a benign condition that is characterized by irregular, patchy hyperpigmentation of the skin and can be triggered and/or exacerbated by exposure to sunlight. However, melasma is most commonly seen in females of reproductive age and those experiencing hormonal changes (e.g., pregnancy, oral contraceptive use).

Image File: 1576-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ef3139d798e4.jpg

