### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Mohs micrographic surgery** - Mohs micrographic surgery is the gold standard treatment for BCC. It has a high cure rate and ensures complete tumor removal while sparing uninvolved skin. As BCC does not metastasize, the prognosis is excellent.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Wide local excision** - Wide local excision is a surgical procedure in which the tumor and a small margin of normal tissue are removed. This technique is mainly used for the treatment of early-stage melanoma. Although this procedure may also be used to treat certain cases of BCC (e.g., those located on the arms or legs), this patient would benefit from a different technique that minimizes the removal of normal tissue.

**B - Cryotherapy** - Although cryotherapy can be used for the treatment of superficial BCC, it is not widely accepted as a first-line therapy; recurrence rates are often higher when compared to other therapies. Also, because cryotherapy does not involve microscopic observation of the tissue, assessing the extent of tumor removal is not possible.

**C - Topical chemotherapy** - Topical chemotherapy with imiquimod or 5-fluorouracil is indicated for the treatment of small superficial BCCs. Although topical chemotherapy may be effective in treating some cases of BCC, it is associated with various side effects (redness, edema) and therefore not recommended as a first-line therapy. Additionally, as this technique does not involve microscopic observation of the tissue, assessing the extent of tumor removal is not possible.

**D - Radiotherapy** - Radiotherapy is an alternative treatment for BCC, usually indicated in the case of large tumors or tumors located in hard to reach locations, or after prior treatment has failed. Because none of these conditions apply, this patient would most likely benefit from a first-line approach.

**F - Laser ablation** - Laser ablation with a carbon dioxide laser is an alternative treatment for superficial BCCs and is often used when other therapies fail. Although this approach may treat some cases of BCC effectively, other techniques are preferred because of lower recurrence rates. Additionally, as this technique does not involve microscopic observation of the tissue, assessing the extent of tumor removal is not possible.

