### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Topical salicylic acid** - Topical salicylic acid is one of the first-line treatment options for the management of common warts in patients who present with associated pain, functional impairment, or discomfort, as seen here. The benefits of this treatment option include high efficacy and availability, low cost, painless application, and minimal side effects, all of which make topical salicylic acid a safe option for wart removal in pediatric patients. Topical salicylic acid can also be combined with other first-line treatment options, such as cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen, for a faster and more effective therapeutic response.

Common warts (verruca vulgaris) are caused by HPV types 2 and 4, which are particularly low-risk.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Topical fluorouracil** - Topical administration of fluorouracil (FU) can be used in patients with common warts who have not responded to first-line treatment. However, topical FU is associated with multiple side effects (e.g., erythema, dryness, burning sensation), and its safety and effectiveness have not been established for pediatric use, making a different intervention more appropriate for this patient.

**B - Pulsed dye laser therapy** - Pulsed dye laser therapy is a second-line treatment option for patients with common warts. Given the high cost, low availability, and side effects of the procedure (e.g., skin discoloration, scarring, pain), pulsed dye laser therapy is reserved for patients who have not responded to first-line therapy. This patient has not yet received any treatment; therefore, another treatment option is indicated at this point.

**C - Intralesional bleomycin injection** - Intralesional bleomycin injection may be indicated for patients with common warts that are refractory to first-line treatment. However, this injection is not recommended for immunosuppressed individuals, pregnant women, or children because of the risk of systemic absorption of bleomycin (a chemotherapeutic agent).

**E - Surgical removal** - Surgical excision (e.g., curettage) is a second-line treatment option for the management of common warts. This option is reserved for patients who have not responded to first-line therapy or who request the immediate removal of warts. However, surgery is associated with an increased risk of scarring, infection, and wart recurrence, which limits its use in clinical practice.

