### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Increased levels of androgen** - Androgens cause sebum production, which can lead to the obstruction of pilosebaceous units within the epidermis. This obstruction results in clogged pores, or comedones, which are characteristic of acne vulgaris. Because there is an increased production of androgens during puberty, acne vulgaris is highly prevalent in adolescents.

Image File: 1580-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f2cee87cab7f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Dysfunction of apocrine glands** - Dysfunction of apocrine glands is believed to contribute to hidradenitis suppurativa, an inflammatory skin disorder affecting areas with abundant apocrine sweat glands including the axilla, groin, and perineum. Lesions in hidradenitis suppurativa can form abscesses, fistulas, and draining sinuses with foul odor. This patient exhibits none of these clinical features

**B - Hyperplasia of pilosebaceous glands** - Hyperplasia of pilosebaceous glands occurs in the phymatous subtype of rosacea. Rosacea typically affects individuals 30–60 years old, and the phymatous subtype causes disfiguring enlargement of the nose, known as rhinophyma. This patient has comedonal lesions, which are not expected in rosacea, and he does not have rhinophyma or other symptoms of rosacea.

**C - Formation of superficial epidermal inclusion cyst** - Formation of superficial epidermal inclusion cysts is the underlying mechanism of milia. Milia is a benign skin disorder typically affecting neonates, marked by small white papules on the nose and cheeks that resolve spontaneously. The inflammatory, comedonal nature of this patient's skin lesions and distribution on the face, back, and chest are inconsistent with milia.

**D - Hyperkeratinization of hair follicles** - Hyperkeratinization of hair follicles is the underlying mechanism of keratosis pilaris, which results in rough bumps distributed over the extensor surfaces of the arms and thighs. This patient has characteristic lesions on the face, back, and chest that suggest a different disorder and pathophysiology.

**F - Type IV hypersensitivity reaction** - A type IV hypersensitivity reaction is the mechanism underlying allergic contact dermatitis, which occurs in susceptible individuals after repeat skin exposure to an allergen. Lesions in allergic contact dermatitis are intensely pruritic, erythematous, and papular, although they can also be vesicular in nature. The distribution and characterization of the lesions in this patient are not consistent with allergic contact dermatitis.

