### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Increased growth of Malassezia globosa** - Tinea versicolor is most commonly caused by increased growth of Malassezia globosa or other fungi of the Malassezia genus (e.g., Malassezia furfur), which belong to the physiological flora of the skin. Affected individuals typically present with abnormal pigmentation (can vary from white to brown or reddish-brown) involving the trunk, back, and/or abdomen following a history of travel to a humid and warm place, such as the Caribbean. Both higher temperatures and humidity provide an ideal environment for the pathogen, which predisposes to overgrowth. The lesions become more apparent after UV exposure or tanning because the surrounding skin gets darker, which provides greater contrast to the lesions.

Image File: 1581-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d933e2d70.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Autoimmune destruction of melanocytes** - Autoimmune destruction of melanocytes may play a role in the development of vitiligo. This theory is supported by the fact that almost 20% of patients with vitiligo patients have coexisting autoimmune diseases. Although this patient has a personal and family history of autoimmune diseases (DM type 1 and Hashimoto thyroiditis), vitiligo typically manifests with nonscaling, well-demarcated, depigmented macules.

Image File: 1581-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91472849.jpg

**B - Increased sebum production** - Increased sebum production has been implicated in the development of acne vulgaris. The characteristic finding in acne vulgaris is the presence of comedones, however, which are absent in this patient. Additionally, areas with increased sebaceous activity are susceptible to seborrheic dermatitis, which typically presents with pruritic erythematous plaques with patchy scaling distributed along areas with hair and oily skin; however, this patient's nonpruritic macules distributed on the chest and trunk are unlikely to be due to seborrheic dermatitis.

Image File: 1581-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acded208aff3.jpg

**C - Infection with Trichophyton rubrum** - Trichophyton rubrum can cause tinea corporis infection, which typically presents with a round, pruritic, erythematous plaque that grows centrifugally, with central clearing and a scaling and raised border. This patient's presentation with nonpruritic (no excoriation marks) macules is unlikely to be due to tinea corporis infection.

Image File: 1581-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5845867ba8d37.jpg

**E - Exposure to human herpes virus 7** - Viral exposure such as HHV-7 may be involved in the development of pityriasis rosea, which typically initially presents with a herald patch followed by secondary eruption of bilateral, diffuse, oval-shaped, salmon-colored papules and plaques distributed on the trunk along the skin cleavage lines.

Image File: 1581-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55096c36676d9.jpg

**F - Increased growth of Corynebacterium minutissimum** - Corynebacterium minutissimum is part of the normal human flora. However, under favorable conditions (heat and high humidity, typically provided by most skin fold areas), these organisms proliferate, causing erythrasma. Although erythrasma is prevalent among diabetic patients, it is rare in children and typically appears in intertriginous areas (not on the chest and trunk).

Image File: 1581-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93d9f5c1.jpg

**G - Antigen uptake by Langerhans cells** - Antigen uptake by Langerhans cells plays a role in the pathophysiology of type IV hypersensitivity reactions such as allergic contact dermatitis, which typically presents with an intensely pruritic, erythematous, and papular rash in a pattern corresponding to the areas of contact with the external irritant. This patient's nonpruritic (no excoriation marks) macules with no specific pattern of distribution are unlikely to be due to allergic contact dermatitis.

Image File: 1581-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d919a30c3.jpg

