### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Maternal serologic assays for virus-specific IgG and IgM** - The mother is at risk of acquiring her son's parvovirus B19 infection and transmitting it to the fetus, which can cause fetal anemia, hydrops, or even death. Therefore, the first step would be to test if the mother has an acute infection or immunity against the virus, which is done using serologic assays for IgG or IgM antibodies against parvovirus B19. Positive IgM and negative IgG antibodies would indicate an acute infection or a false positive test and must be repeated in 2 weeks for confirmation. The repeat test can show either negative IgG and IgM, in which case the mother would be susceptible to infection, or positive IgM and IgG, indicating acute infection. Positive IgG and negative IgM levels, however, would indicate maternal immunity and the expectant mother could be reassured that no further action is necessary.

Image File: 1582-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ebbc451dc09a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Report the disease to health authorities** - While the list of reportable diseases includes many diseases, including measles and rubella, parvovirus B19 infection is not reportable.

Image File: 1582-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_555097269923b.jpg

**B - Reassurance** - Reassurance of the expectant mother would be all that was required if her son's rash were rubella. The mother's rubella titers indicate immunity, and as such, the son's infection would not put the mother at risk. In contrast to the rash seen in parvovirus B19 infection, which begins on the cheeks and is notable for perioral pallor, the rash of rubella usually begins behind the ears. Furthermore, rubella is notable for marked postauricular and suboccipital lymphadenopathy, which is not reported in this child.

**C - PCR for viral DNA in amniotic fluid** - If maternal infection with parvovirus B19 is confirmed, then amniocentesis may be used to confirm acute fetal parvovirus infection. Currently, however, it is not known whether the mother is infected with parvovirus or not. Therefore, any invasive diagnostic procedures should be deferred until less invasive tests have been performed.

**E - Antibiotics for the child** - Antibiotics would have no effect on this child's parvovirus B19 infection. Furthermore, fifth disease is a self-limiting condition.

**F - Maternal administration of intravenous immunoglobulin** - Intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIGs) are mainly used to treat chronic B19 infection in immunocompromised individuals who suffer from anemia. However, the mother here is not immunocompromised. Furthermore, it is not yet clear if she is infected with or has immunity against B19.

**G - Serial fetal ultrasounds** - Pregnant women diagnosed with confirmed acute parvovirus B19 infection are usually monitored with serial ultrasounds every week or two weeks to detect fetal anemia (through Doppler studies of the middle cerebral artery) or hydrops early on. Although the mother was exposed to a child with parvovirus B19 infection, it is not yet clear if she is also infected.

**H - Isolation precautions for the child** - Once the rash of fifth disease has appeared, the infected individual is no longer contagious. Exposure of this pregnant woman has therefore already occurred and isolation precautions would be of no benefit.

