### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Retinol** - While there is no curative treatment for measles, vitamin A (retinol) should be administered to all children with acute measles (esp. important in those with signs of malnutrition) because it helps prevent complications such as otitis media, viral pneumonia, encephalitis, and subacute sclerosing panencephalitis. Vitamin A enhances the barrier function and immunity of the ocular, respiratory, and gastrointestinal epithelium. Lower serum levels of vitamin A are associated with a more severe and prolonged course of the disease.

Image File: 1584-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb90ff11db7d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Valacyclovir** - Valacyclovir is used to treat VZV and HSV infections. Primary HSV infection in children typically presents as gingivostomatitis with bloody gingival ulcerations and mucosal blisters. Cervical lymphadenopathy, but not generalized lymphadenopathy, may be present. Furthermore, facial rash is not typical for HSV infection. VZV infection (chickenpox) presents with a widespread rash that starts on the trunk, and eventually spreads to the face, scalp, and extremities as opposed to the progression from face to trunk seen in this patient. In VZV infection, the various stages of the rash typically occur simultaneously. Valacyclovir is not effective against the rubeola virus that causes measles.

Image File: 1584-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f22ec1f44e76.jpg

**B - Penicillin V** - Oral penicillin V is used to treat various diseases, including scarlet fever, which also manifests with a blanching, maculopapular rash. However, in scarlet fever, the rash would have a sandpaper-like texture and be most prominent in flexural areas. In addition, scarlet fever is characterized by a history of pharyngitis (sore throat), flushed cheeks with perioral pallor, and a characteristic white-coated or strawberry-red tongue

Image File: 1584-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb56ed724fa6.jpg

**D - Live-attenuated vaccine** - While the MMR vaccine is a live-attenuated vaccine, it has no benefit during the exanthem phase of measles and is, in fact, contraindicated if the child has a high fever, as in this case. MMR vaccine can be administered within 72 hours of exposure to measles in immunocompetent patients (postexposure prophylaxis) or in nonresponders to vaccination as determined by serologic testing.

**E - Intravenous immunoglobulin** - IVIG can be used as postexposure prophylaxis (within 6 days of exposure) for measles in infants younger than 12 months of age, pregnant women without evidence of measles immunity, and people with severely compromised immune systems. As, in this patient, the disease is already in the exanthem stage, it is now too late for postexposure prophylaxis. Another possible indication for IVIG would be Kawasaki disease, but the child does not have the characteristic strawberry tongue and rash with palmar and plantar desquamation.

