### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Seborrheic keratosis** - This patient presents with skin lesions suggestive of seborrheic keratosis, the most common benign skin tumor in elderly individuals. The lesions present as multiple darkly pigmented and clearly demarcated papules or plaques that have a greasy, wax-like appearance. Seborrheic keratoses may be pruritic or become irritated and bleed, especially as they tend to occur on exposed body parts like the hands, arms, trunk, face, and neck.

Image File: 1585-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_509eed858e550.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Actinic keratosis** - Actinic keratosis is a UV-induced precancerous skin lesion that initially presents with a sandpaper-like texture and progresses to erythematous, scaly lesions. While this patient's work as a gardener places him at increased risk of developing actinic keratosis, the lesions' greasy, wax-like appearance and the location of one on a body part that is not typically sun-exposed (lower back) make this diagnosis unlikely.

Image File: 1585-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5769bf9d0b0df.jpg

**B - Dysplastic nevus** - A dysplastic nevus is a benign skin lesion that can occur in all age groups and is often seen in individuals with a genetic disposition (e.g., fair skin, multiple common moles). The lesion may be flat or raised and is characterized by an asymmetric shape, irregular borders, and inconsistencies in color. The wax-like, greasy appearance of this patient's lesions is not consistent with dysplastic nevi.

Image File: 1585-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_547f3a550a77d.jpg

**C - Compound nevus** - A compound nevus is a benign skin lesion similar in appearance to common moles but usually lighter in color. The fact that it consists of a central raised area surrounded by a flat patch of pigmented skin makes it similar to this patient's lesion, but the dark pigmentation and waxy appearance in this case is more suggestive of a different diagnosis.

**D - Lentigo maligna** - Lentigo maligna is a precancerous skin lesion caused by long-term exposure to sunlight. While this patient's risk of developing malignant skin lesions is increased, lentigo maligna presents as an irregularly shaped, dark macula, unlike the sharply demarcated nodules seen in this patient. Since one of this patient's lesions is on skin that is not sun-exposed (lower back), this diagnosis is very unlikely.

Image File: 1585-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_517be8d412454.jpg

**E - Basal cell carcinoma** - Basal cell carcinoma is a malignant skin tumor primarily associated with long-term exposure to sunlight and typically occurs on the nose or eyelids. The lesion presents as a slow-growing pearly nodule with a rolled border and central depression that may ulcerate. While this patient has a history of occupational exposure to sunlight, the appearance and swift development of his lesions rule out BCC.

Image File: 1585-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94baae0a.jpg

**G - Dermatofibroma** - Dermatofibromas are benign skin lesions of unknown etiology that may occur in any age group. They most commonly manifest on the lower legs as skin-colored or brownish nodules and can be diagnosed with a positive Fitzpatrick's sign. This patient's age and dark, wax-like lesions suggest a different diagnosis.

Image File: 1585-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58a6ce12a3b39.jpg

