### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Use of demeclocycline** - Demeclocycline has an adverse effect profile similar to that of other tetracyclines, which includes photosensitivity, as seen in this patient. UV light interacts with metabolites of the phototoxic drug in a way that results in the release of reactive oxygen species to the surrounding area and, subsequently, damage to sun-exposed skin. Unlike a photoallergic drug reaction, a phototoxic drug reaction occurs without prior sensitization to the triggering agent.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Adverse reaction to amoxicillin** - While an allergic reaction to amoxicillin use could result in erythema and the papular eruptions seen in this patient, the fact that the rash appeared within 30 minutes of exposure to sunlight and was limited to sun-exposed areas points to a different diagnosis. Amoxicillin is not a common trigger of photosensitivity reactions.

**B - Uroporphyrin accumulation** - Porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT) is caused by a defect in uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase that results in the accumulation of uroporphyrin. The typical cutaneous manifestations of PCT are a photosensitive blistering rash and increased skin fragility, not erythema and papular eruptions. Moreover, these symptoms typically occur as a delayed reaction several hours after sunlight exposure and would be unlikely to develop only 30 minutes after exposure.

**C - Cell-mediated photoallergic reaction** - A cell-mediated photoallergic reaction is a type IV hypersensitivity reaction that can occur in patients taking medications such as an antibacterial sulfonamide or anticonvulsants. More commonly, however, photoallergy occurs after exposure to topical agents, such as sunscreens, diclofenac, and perfumes. The patient would then have a photosensitivity reaction within 48–72 hours of exposure to sunlight. This patient's acute reaction makes a photoallergic reaction unlikely.

**D - Systemic lupus erythematosus** - Systemic lupus erythematosus often presents with photosensitivity, and the skin findings in this patient are particularly often seen in drug-induced systemic lupus erythematosus. Drugs that are known to cause drug-induced lupus erythematosus include procainamide, hydralazine, methyldopa, phenytoin, chlorpromazine, diltiazem, and isoniazid. However, none of the drugs currently taken by the patient are known to induce a lupus reaction.

**F - Paraneoplasic dermatomyositis** - Dermatomyositis is frequently associated with malignancies, including lung cancer. Paraneoplastic dermatomyositis would also involve photosensitivity. However, this patient does not have muscle weakness, which is a defining feature of this disorder.

**G - Normal sunburn reaction** - Though this patient is light-skinned and does have a history of sunburns, it would be unlikely for a sunburn to appear 30 minutes after a short, 10-minute exposure to sunlight.

