### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Leukoplakia** - This patient has oral leukoplakia, a relatively common precancerous condition of the oral epithelium. Smoking and alcohol consumption are important risk factors for this condition, which manifests as single or multiple asymptomatic white plaques that cannot be scraped off. Any part of the oral cavity can be affected. If untreated, leukoplakia can undergo malignant transformation into squamous cell carcinoma. The risk of malignant transformation is higher if the white patches are nonhomogenous in appearance and/or texture (e.g., erythroleukoplakia, verrucous leukoplakia).

Image File: 1589-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b3d2b67a53f5.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral candidiasis** - The pseudomembranous (common) and hyperplastic (rare) forms of oral candidiasis manifest as white lesions in the oral cavity. Chronic smoking, which can cause xerostomia and alter the balance of oral bacterial flora, is also a minor risk factor for oral candidiasis. However, the lesions of pseudomembranous candidiasis can be scraped off, unlike this patient's lesions. Moreover, a biopsy of oral candidiasis lesions would show hyphal structures and an infiltrate of inflammatory cells, neither of which are seen here.

Image File: 1589-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5486e48c66db9.jpg

**B - Squamous cell carcinoma** - In-situ oral squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) can appear as a white patch that cannot be scraped off, as seen here. This patient also has several risk factors for oral SCC (e.g., 50–70 years of age, male sex, smoking, alcohol use). However, a biopsy in the case of carcinoma-in-situ would show evidence of dysplastic changes (e.g., hyperchromatism, increased N:C ratio) extending to the basement membrane of the oral epithelium. This patient has a premalignant condition that can develop into oral SCC, but there is no histological evidence of SCC at this time.

**C - Oral hairy leukoplakia** - Oral hairy leukoplakia (OHL), which is caused by Epstein-Barr virus, manifests as white patches on the oral mucosa that cannot be wiped off with gauze, and biopsy can show marked hyperkeratosis and parakeratosis, as seen here. However, the lesions of OHL are typically found on the lateral surfaces of the tongue, not the gingiva, and have a hairy or feathery rather than granular texture. Moreover, OHL lesions typically only manifest in immunocompromised patients, and there is no evidence of immunosuppression in this patient.

Image File: 1589-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_54808bffa55e6.jpg

**D - Lichen planus** - Lichen planus typically occurs in middle-aged individuals, manifests as asymptomatic white lesions of the oral mucosa, and can show hyperkeratosis and/or parakeratosis on biopsy, as seen here. However, the lesions of oral lichen planus typically appear as reticular white lines (Wickham striae), and the degree of hyperkeratosis and parakeratosis on biopsy is usually minimal. Moreover, lichen planus is characterized by hypergranulosis, degeneration of the stratum basale, and saw-toothed rete ridges with lymphocytic infiltration, none of which is seen here.

Image File: 1589-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_535fb7e03de6b.jpg

