### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Molluscum contagiosum** - Molluscum contagiosum typically affects children < 5 years of age. The lesions are nontender, skin-colored, pearly, dome-shaped papules with central umbilication. They are usually 2–5 mm in diameter and commonly occur on the trunk, face, and genitalia. Because spontaneous remission usually occurs within 6–9 months, treatment is usually not required.

Molluscum contagiosum also occurs in adults, particularly in those with immunosuppression (e.g., HIV, chemotherapy).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Insect bites** - In the case of insect bites (e.g., mosquito or flea), lesions are typically pruritic and physical examination most often reveals erythematous papules at the site of the bite. The patient does not have any of these findings, which makes the diagnosis unlikely.

**C - Folliculitis** - Folliculitis is characterized by erythema, tender papules, and/or pustules at the site of hair follicles. However, the patient's papules are nontender and the vignette does not mention any association with hair follicles, making the diagnosis unlikely.

Image File: 1593-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589dbd91941e3.jpg

**D - Cutaneuous lichen planus** - Cutaneus lichen planus most commonly manifests on the wrists and lower extremities in individuals between 30–60 years of age. The typical skin lesions are pruritic, polygonal, planar (flat-topped), purple plaques or papules (the 6 P's). Pattern of white lines on the lesion's surface (Wickham striae) may also be seen. In contrast, the lesions described in the vignette are skin-colored and they do not have irregular borders or Wickham striae, making the diagnosis of cutaneous lichen planus unlikely, especially in a 2-year-old girl.

Image File: 1593-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91141b99.jpg

**E - Keratoacanthoma** - A keratoacanthoma grows rapidly (within 2–3 months) in areas of skin exposed to the sun. Examinations show a round erythematous nodule with central crater. Based on the patient's age (2 years old), the description of the skin lesions, and the recent onset of the lesions, this patient most likely has a different underlying pathology.

Image File: 1593-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_550982ec6e5c4.jpg

**F - Verruca vulgaris** - Verruca vulgaris (common warts) present as rough, scaly papules or plaques that may sometimes have a cauliflower-like appearance. They are typically located on the hands, feet, and knees. However, the patient's skin lesions are pearly papules with a central umbilication and they are located on the abdomen, allowing verruca vulgaris to be ruled out.

Image File: 1593-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9176e6af.jpg

**G - Chickenpox** - Chickenpox (varicella) typically presents during childhood with a rash, characterized by the simultaneous manifestation of macules, papules, vesicles, and crusts. The rash starts on the trunk, spreading to the face, scalp, and extremities and causing severe pruritus and fever. However, the patient's rash is not pruritic and she does not have any further symptoms, which makes the diagnosis of chickenpox unlikely.

Image File: 1593-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57c963388af76.jpg

