### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Sensory neuropathy** - Sensory neuropathy in the form of postherpetic neuralgia is the most common complication of shingles, occurring in approximately 10–15% of patients, with the proportion of those affected increasing with age. Symptoms of postherpetic neuralgia include intense pain, numbness, and allodynia in the affected dermatome that persist 3 months or more after the initial onset of the rash. In addition to being a risk factor for shingles, immunosuppression likely increases the risk of postherpetic neuralgia.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Ascending paralysis** - Ascending paralysis is characteristic of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), a postinfectious autoimmune reaction. Although this patient does have a slightly increased risk for developing GBS because of his shingles, the most common GBS trigger is not shingles but a URI or gastrointestinal tract infection, which did not occur here. A different complication of shingles is far more common.

**C - Urinary retention** - Urinary retention can occur as an extragenital complication of severe primary HSV-2 (or, less commonly, HSV-1) infection with lumbosacral radiculomyelitis. Although the lesions found in genital HSV-2 may manifest as painful vesicles, similar to those of this patient, for HSV-2 they are located on or around the genitals and anus, whereas this patient has vesicles on his right flank (likely a thoracic dermatome). Shingles are caused by VZV rather than HSV, and are not commonly complicated by urinary retention.

**D - Loss of vision** - Loss of vision can occur as a complication of herpes zoster ophthalmicus (HZO), in which the majority of patients experience direct involvement of the eye. Early diagnosis and antiviral treatment are essential in preventing vision loss as a result of HZO uveitis, iritis, conjunctivitis, keratitis, and optic neuritis. HZO presents with grouped vesicles, as seen in this patient; however, in HZO they are found in the trigeminal nerve distribution, whereas they are located in a thoracic dermatome in this patient.

Image File: 1596-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_570f501964cf0.jpg

**E - Temporal lobe inflammation** - Temporal lobe inflammation is seen in herpes zoster encephalitis; risk factors for which include immunosuppression and shingles with cranial or cervical dermatomal involvement, two or more prior episodes, or systemic dissemination. Herpes zoster encephalitis usually presents with delirium within days of vesicular eruption. Although this patient does have shingles and is immunosuppressed, he has shingles in a thoracic dermatome rather than a cranial or cervical one, and he is not delirious.

