### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Gliadin-dependent hypersensitivity** - Gliadin-dependent hypersensitivity causes celiac disease, a condition strongly associated with dermatitis herpetiformis (DH). The majority of patients with DH have gastrointestinal disease related to gluten sensitivity on histopathologic examination, despite lacking gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., bloating, diarrhea, abdominal pain). In addition to lifelong avoidance of gluten-containing foods, the first-line treatment of DH is dapsone.

Image File: 1599-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93140b83.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Mite eggs and fecal pellets** - Mites, their eggs, and/or fecal pellets can be found on dermoscopy in patients with scabies. Though scabies can manifest with intensely pruritic, scattered vesicles, the pruritus is typically worse at night. Additionally, scabies usually affects the creases of the body (e.g., interdigital web spaces, the antecubital and popliteal fossae, groin), not the elbows and shoulders. Lastly, this patient does not have dark red burrows (2–10 mm in length) in the dermis, which are tunnels created by the female mite.

Image File: 1599-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_559560d35530f.jpg

**B - White dermographism** - White dermographism is associated with atopic dermatitis, which typically manifests with a poorly demarcated, lichenified rash in flexural creases (e.g., antecubital and popliteal fossae) rather than grouped vesicles on extensor surfaces. White dermographism is not seen in dermatitis herpetiformis.

Image File: 1599-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b0bd75412ec8.jpg

**D - Multinucleated giant cells** - Multinucleated giant cells found on scrapings of an ulcer base (i.e., a positive Tzanck smear) indicate herpes simplex virus infections (HSV) or varicella-zoster virus infections (VZV). HSV infections cause grouped, vesicular lesions, which are typically painful (not pruritic) and usually manifest around the mouth (HSV-1) or genital (HSV-2) area. VZV infections cause chickenpox and shingles, which also manifest as vesicular lesions. However, chickenpox causes a more widespread rash, and shingles typically manifests in a dermatomal distribution. Systemic signs (e.g., fever, malaise) are also commonly present.

Image File: 1599-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_599d662b08747.jpg

**E - Nail pitting** - Nail pitting is a key feature of psoriasis, which can also manifest with a pruritic rash on the extensor surfaces (e.g., elbows). However, this rash typically consists of clearly demarcated, erythematous plaques with silvery scales (not grouped vesicles). Characteristic microscopic findings in psoriasis include neutrophilic microabscesses (Munro microabscesses) in the stratum corneum, not microabscesses and IgA deposits in the papillary dermis.

Image File: 1599-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91617532.jpg

**F - Positive Nikolsky sign** - A positive Nikolsky sign is seen in pemphigus vulgaris, a condition that also manifests with skin blisters. However, these blisters are typically flaccid and usually first appear on the buccal mucosa. In addition, the lesions are characteristically painful (not pruritic). Histopathologic examination shows IgG deposits in the epidermis accompanied by acantholysis. In dermatitis herpetiformis, the oral mucosa is not typically involved and Nikolsky sign is negative.

Image File: 1599-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5974a5211bf27.jpg

