### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Oral rifampicin and dapsone** - The combination of rifampicin and dapsone is the treatment of choice for tuberculoid leprosy. Tuberculoid leprosy is characterized by a small number of hypopigmented, anhidrotic, and hypoesthetic skin lesions (rarely more than 3), which is consistent with the clinical findings in this patient.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral hydroxychloroquine** - Hydroxychloroquine would be an adequate treatment option for an acute lupus flare. Systemic lupus erythematosus can occasionally present with hypopigmented skin lesions and with neuropathy, but reduced sensation and anhidrosis are not common for lupus skin lesions. Also, SLE often involves other organs such as the kidneys.

**B - Intravenous sodium stibogluconate** - Sodium stibogluconate is an antibiotic that can be used to treat cutaneous leishmaniasis. The cutaneous form can manifest with painless, hypopigmented skin lesions, but it does not cause neuropathy and reduced sensation over the skin lesions. Moreover, leishmaniasis is not endemic to Indonesia.

**C - Topical fluconazole** - Topical fluconazole is useful for superficial fungal infections caused by dermatophytes. Although dermatophyte infections (e.g., tinea versicolor) can cause hypopigmented lesions, these infections do not cause neuropathy, and the skin lesions would be itchy. Anhidrotic lesions with reduced sensation, as seen in this patient, would not be expected.

**D - Topical betamethasone** - Topical betamethasone can be used to treat a wide variety of skin conditions, including vitiligo. Although vitiligo presents with painless depigmented areas of skin and is commonly associated with other autoimmune diseases (e.g., this patient's Hashimoto's disease), it does not cause neuropathy and reduced sensation over the skin lesions.

**E - Intravenous amphotericin** - IV amphotericin can be used to treat leishmaniasis and severe systemic fungal infections. Although both can present with hypopigmented skin lesions, these lesions would not have reduced sensation and anhidrosis. In addition, neither of the two would cause neuropathy.

