### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Pyogenic granuloma** - Pyogenic granuloma (PG) is a benign, vascular tumor characterized by rapid growth and a tendency to bleed profusely after minor trauma. PG typically manifests as a painless, red papule or nodule and often develops at sites of skin injury on the face or hands, as seen here. The exact cause is unknown. Young men and pregnant women are commonly affected. Diagnosis is based on clinical findings but a histopathological confirmation can help to rule out malignant tumors. Surgical excision is the preferred method of treatment because it reduces the recurrence rate. Other methods of treatment include laser therapy, cryotherapy, intralesional steroid injections, and topical therapies (e.g., beta blockers).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cherry hemangioma** - A cherry hemangioma can manifest as a painless, red lesion that may bleed profusely after trauma. However, cherry hemangiomas are usually seen in adults older than 30 years of age and rarely occur on the hands, which is where this patient's lesion is located. Moreover, multiple, smaller (0.1–0.4 cm) lesions rather than a single nodule are typically seen.

Image File: 1606-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a83280abb8b1.jpg

**C - Glomus tumor** - A glomus tumor can manifest as a red-purple nodule on the fingers, like the one seen here. However, glomus tumors are typically located on the nail bed or the palm and are associated with severe paroxysmal pain, tenderness, and cold sensitivity, none of which this patient has. Furthermore, a glomus tumor does not usually bleed following minor trauma or develop at the site of an injury.

**D - Bacillary angiomatosis** - Bacillary angiomatosis is typically transmitted by cat scratches and patients can present with a solitary, red nodule that bleeds easily, as seen here. However, patients with bacillary angiomatosis usually present with constitutional symptoms, such as fever, chills, and malaise, none of which this patient has. Moreover, bacillary angiomatosis is characteristically seen in immunocompromised patients (especially patients with HIV infection and a CD4 count < 100 cells/μL).

Image File: 1606-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_604db23079f0f.jpg

**E - Kaposi sarcoma** - Kaposi sarcoma can manifest with a painless, red-brown nodule, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, multiple lesions on the lower legs, chest, and/or mucous membranes are typically seen. Moreover, Kaposi sarcoma is typically seen in immunocompromised individuals (e.g., individuals with HIV, organ transplant recipients) and does not usually lead to profuse bleeding following minor trauma.

Image File: 1606-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_599d6975c708c.jpg

**F - Keloid scar** - A keloid scar typically develops at the site of a wound 3–12 months after the injury, similar to what is seen in this patient, who was scratched by a cat six months ago. However, a keloid scar consists of brownish-red scar tissue with a claw-like appearance that grows beyond the boundaries of the injury, unlike what is seen here. Furthermore, in contrast to this patient's presentation, a keloid scar is usually painful, pruritic, and does not bleed following minor trauma.

Image File: 1606-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f86a8c306cfb.jpg

