### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Seborrheic dermatitis** - The infantile type of seborrheic dermatitis typically presents within the first 3 months of life, most frequently in premature infants, with erythematous (or salmon-colored) scaling plaques and, in some cases, greasy, yellow, adherent scales that rarely cause mild pruritus. Typical locations include the scalp (hence the term “cradle cap”), forehead, nose, external ear, umbilical area, and intertriginous areas. The pathophysiology is not yet fully understood but colonization of areas around sebaceous glands with the yeast Malassezia furfur appears to be a contributing factor. In some patients (especially in adults) active phases are triggered by an inadequate or abnormal immune response to the yeast (e.g., due to stress, fatigue, or cold temperatures) leading to an inflammatory reaction of the skin. Seborrheic dermatitis is more common in patients with a family history of psoriasis.

Image File: 1608-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_579206c0b6d27.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Impetigo** - Nonbullous impetigo can present in infants with erythema and honey-colored crusting involving the face. However, the crusts are typically dried secretions that arise from ruptured pustules or vesicles, rather than scales. Furthermore, it primarily affects children between 2–6 years of age. Although the face is commonly involved, a rash around the nose and mouth would be more common than lesions on the scalp and along the hairline. In addition, warm and humid climates, rather than cold temperatures, are risk factors for this condition.

Image File: 1608-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93a7dc7a.jpg

**B - Atopic dermatitis** - In infants, atopic dermatitis can present with a scaling rash involving the scalp and face. However, the lesions are typically dry and intensely pruritic, whereas this child appears comfortable. Furthermore, the onset of symptoms in atopic dermatitis usually occurs between 3–6 months, not as early as this infant's condition. In addition, heat and extremely dry or humid climates, rather than cold temperatures would trigger disease flares.

Image File: 1608-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9278972a.jpg

**C - Erythroderma** - Erythroderma may present with erythema and scaling as seen in this patient. It can be idiopathic or occurs secondary to other dermatologic conditions. While the idiopathic type typically presents in patients older than 40 years, the secondary type can occur earlier in life, depending on the underlying condition. However, erythroderma is characterized by generalized erythema rather than limited involvement of the face or scalp, and does not present with greasy scaling, making this diagnosis unlikely in this patient.

Image File: 1608-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d926b36e6.jpg

**D - Seborrheic keratosis** - Seborrheic keratosis is characterized by the presence of greasy skin lesions that frequently involve the face, trunk, and the back of the hands. However, it presents with soft, sharply demarcated, pigmented papules or plaques that have a stuck-on appearance, rather than erythematous lesions with scaling. It is also most common in the elderly population and would be unlikely to present in an infant.

Image File: 1608-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94d87db5.jpg

**E - Allergic contact dermatitis** - Allergic contact dermatitis may manifest with an erythematous rash already during the neonatal period. The distribution pattern of the rash reflects the areas and shapes of external exposure (e.g., soaps or cosmetics used on the face and scalp). However, the rash of contact dermatitis is usually papular, intensely pruritic and may, in severe cases, form of vesicles with serous oozing.

Image File: 1608-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58c265b81ca6e.jpg

**F - Pityriasis rubra pilaris** - Pityriasis rubra pilaris may present as a scaly rash. However, it typically involves the palms and soles rather than the scalp and the associated rash is characterized by disseminated plaques with orange-pink scales and follicular keratosis. In addition, symptoms do not occur during infancy but usually begin during early childhood or adulthood.

**G - Psoriasis** - Psoriasis may present with erythematous skin lesions with scaling that are typically located on the scalp, back, elbows, and knees (extensor surfaces). A positive family history, as seen in this case, increases the risk of developing the disease. However, the lesions in psoriasis are usually well-demarcated, elevated, and the scales have a classic silvery-white appearance. In addition, mild pruritus is present in most patients, which appears to be absent in this patient. Furthermore, the age of onset is usually between 20–40 years of age, making the diagnosis even less likely.

Image File: 1608-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9492d885.jpg

