### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Intravenous cefazolin therapy** - Intravenous cefazolin is first-line treatment against erysipelas in patients with systemic symptoms (e.g., fever) because it is highly effective against group A streptococci. Alternatively, intravenous penicillin G may be used.

Image File: 1609-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59d8a2cf65044.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral cephalexin therapy** - Oral cephalexin therapy is used to treat erysipelas because it is effective against group A streptococci. However, it is not the optimal therapy for patients who have systemic signs of infection and would be inappropriate for this patient with fever and chills.

**C - Compression stockings** - Compression stockings are used in patients with varicose veins. Compression may increase the velocity of venous blood flow, improve venous valve function, reduce vein distention, control edema, and prevent complications such as stasis dermatitis and deep vein thrombosis. Compression stockings do not have a role in the treatment of erysipelas, a skin infection.

**D - Symptomatic relief only** - Symptomatic relief can be achieved in this patient with the help of painkillers and by elevating the affected limb. However, antibiotic therapy is required to treat erysipelas, especially since the patient has diabetes. Symptomatic relief alone would be unlikely to control the infection.

**E - Surgical debridement** - Surgical debridement is indicated in the case of severe soft tissue infections such as necrotizing fasciitis. Necrotizing fasciitis is a rapidly progressive infection that involves the deeper fascia and presents with purple skin discoloration or necrosis, bullae, and palpable crepitus. This patient presents with erysipelas, which affects only the upper dermis and usually does not require surgical therapy.

**F - Intravenous ciprofloxacin therapy** - Ciprofloxacin may be used as a second or third-line alternative (e.g., in the case of penicillin allergy) to treat erysipeloid, which appears at the site of contact with infected meat (usually the hand) as an indurated, purple red, maculopapular rash with local swelling, pain, and sharply demarcated borders. Despite the resemblance of erysipeloid lesions to those of erysipelas, the location of the lesion and the patient's occupational history make the diagnosis of erysipeloid unlikely. Ciprofloxacin does not cover gram-positive aerobes such as Streptococci, meaning it is not effective in the treatment of erysipelas.

**G - Subcutaneous heparin injection** - Heparin is indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of deep venous thrombosis, which may present with pain, redness, and swelling of the leg. However, the presence of fever and an indurated skin lesion with sharply defined margins indicates erysipelas rather than DVT. Furthermore, risk factors for DVT such as immobilization or recent intravascular instrumentation are absent in this patient.

Image File: 1609-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58a30fc375e6f.jpg

