### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome** - Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome (SSSS) is a blistering skin disorder that results from toxemia following focal Staphylococcus aureus infections (usually of the nasopharynx, and less commonly the umbilicus and urinary tract). However, the initial focal infection may not be apparent in all cases. SSSS typically affects children less than 6 years of age due to impaired renal clearance of the exfoliative toxins and a lack of circulating antitoxins.

Image File: 1610-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5977837e77709.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Streptococcal impetigo** - Unlike the presentation in this patient, impetigo due to streptococcal infection is not associated with vesicle/bullae formation (nonbullous impetigo). Instead, small tiny vesicles, pustules, and/or honey-colored crusts surrounded by erythema develop on the traumatized face or extremities (e.g., from insect bites, abrasions). Also, Nikolsky's sign would not be present. Moreover, regional lymphadenopathy, which is present in 90% of patients with nonbullous impetigo, is not evident in this patient. Neutrophilic leukocytosis may be present but constitutional symptoms such as fever are also usually absent.

Image File: 1610-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93a7dc7a.jpg

**C - Pemphigus vulgaris** - A patient with pemphigus vulgaris would present with a positive Nikolsky's sign and flaccid blisters over the face and trunk, as seen here. However, pemphigus vulgaris is more common in patients > 30 years. Also, mucosal involvement is very common and often precedes cutaneous manifestations. A normal oropharyngeal examination essentially rules out this diagnosis.

Image File: 1610-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_545ce3a6bfa9f.jpg

**D - Scarlet fever** - Scarlet fever is not a blistering disorder and resolution of the exanthem takes place by desquamation instead of vesicle/bullae formation. A positive Nikolsky's sign would also not be present. Moreover, patients with scarlet fever usually have palatal petechiae and a white-coated or strawberry-red tongue. The oropharyngeal examination is normal in this patient.

Image File: 1610-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57c994ce88f45.jpg

**E - Bullous pemphigoid** - The absence of oropharyngeal lesions supports the diagnosis of bullous pemphigoid. However, this condition is more common among elderly patients and the blisters associated with bullous pemphigoid are usually tense, not flaccid. In addition, Nikolsky's sign would be negative and constitutional systems (e.g., fever) are uncommon.

Image File: 1610-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_547454f18f542.jpg

**F - Toxic epidermal necrolysis** - Although high fever, the appearance of blisters over the face and trunk, a positive Nikolsky's sign, and hypotension (sign of shock) support the diagnosis of toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), sparing of the oropharyngeal mucosa and a negative medication history makes TEN an unlikely diagnosis.

Image File: 1610-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_547854aac3aa8.jpg

**G - Epidermolysis bullosa** - Epidermolysis bullosa lesions usually involve the extremities but may occasionally occur on the neck and trunk, as seen here. A positive Nikolsky's sign is possible, and the mucosa may also be spared. However, epidermolysis bullosa is not an infectious skin disease. Both fever and leukocytosis would be absent unless a secondary bacterial infection occurs in the denuded skin. In addition, this child lacks a positive family history of epidermolysis bullosa, making the diagnosis unlikely.

