### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Ibuprofen** - NSAIDs, like ibuprofen, are recommended for the treatment of Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction, which is a common complication of treatment of spirochetal infections such as borreliosis, leptospirosis, and syphilis. After the patient receives antibiotic treatment (usually in the early phases of the secondary stage of syphilis), the release of bacterial endotoxins and pyrogens can elicit the systemic reaction seen in this patient.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ceftriaxone** - Ceftriaxone is indicated as an alternative treatment option for syphilis. However, this patient currently requires treatment for a complication he developed following therapy of the primary infection.

**C - Epinephrine** - Epinephrine is commonly used to treat anaphylactic reactions. While these may occur following medical treatment (e.g., with antibiotics) and may present with skin lesions, they are typically urticarial and not maculopapular. Since fever and myalgias are not caused by anaphylaxis and further typical symptoms (e.g., erythema, angioedema, dyspnea) are absent in this patient, the diagnosis is unlikely and treatment with epinephrine is not necessary.

**D - Methylprednisolone** - Methylprednisolone is a steroidal anti-inflammatory drug. Although it is effective in reducing inflammation in several conditions (e.g., systemic lupus erythematosus, allergies, asthma), it is not indicated for the treatment of Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction.

**E - Phenylephrine** - Phenylephrine is most commonly used as a decongestant, but can also be indicated as a vasopressor to treat hypotension (e.g., secondary to shock). While this patient experienced a drop in blood pressure, treatment for hypotension should be considered if blood pressure drops below 90/60 mm Hg and is therefore not required in this patient.

