### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Reassurance and follow-up** - Seborrheic keratosis is a benign, slow-growing lesion that is commonly seen in older individuals. For asymptomatic lesions, such as the one seen here, treatment is generally not necessary and reassurance with follow-up is sufficient. If atypical features are present (e.g., asymmetry, rapid change or growth, ulceration) or if the diagnosis is unclear, a biopsy may be indicated. Treatment with cryotherapy, laser therapy, or surgical excision is appropriate for cosmetic removal or if the lesion becomes symptomatic (e.g., pruritic, painful, or bleeds easily).

In patients with the sudden appearance of multiple seborrheic keratoses, known as the Leser-Trélat sign, further investigation is necessary because of this feature's association with malignancies such as lung cancer and gastrointestinal cancer.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Topical salicylic acid** - Topical salicylic acid is the first-line treatment for warts, which can manifest as soft papules on the face (i.e., flat warts or verruca plana). However, flat warts are more common in younger individuals and they are usually flesh-colored, smooth, and flat, whereas this elderly patient's lesion is darkly pigmented and has a “stuck-on” appearance. Salicylic acid treatment is not recommended for seborrheic keratosis.

Image File: 1612-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9176e6af.jpg

**C - Shave biopsy** - A shave biopsy might be indicated to rule out malignancy in patients with pigmented skin lesions with atypical features (e.g., size > 6 mm; a recent change in shape, size, or color; irregular borders; asymmetry). This patient, however, has a small (5 mm), asymptomatic lesion that has not changed much over the past 4 months and has a waxy, “stuck-on” appearance, all of which are characteristic of seborrheic keratosis.

**D - Excisional biopsy** - An excisional biopsy is indicated for pigmented lesions if there is suspicion for melanoma. According to the ABCDE rule for melanoma, a biopsy should be considered if the lesion is > 6 mm in diameter, asymmetric, has color variegation, irregular borders, or recent change in size, shape, or color. This patient's lesion has a waxy, “stuck-on” appearance characteristic of seborrheic keratosis, for which biopsy is not routinely indicated.

**E - Cryotherapy** - Cryotherapy is the most common treatment for seborrheic keratosis. However, cryotherapy is indicated in symptomatic lesions or if the patient requests treatment for cosmetic reasons, which is not the case here.

