### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Deficiency of a natural anticoagulant** - Deficiency of the natural anticoagulant protein C is a strong predisposing factor for warfarin-induced skin necrosis, a rare complication of warfarin use. Protein C is a protease that inactivates factor V and factor VIII. Although warfarin's anticoagulation effect is the result of inhibition of the vitamin K-dependent factors II, VII, IX, X, it is also an inhibitor of natural anticoagulants, including protein C and protein S, which are depleted more quickly. The loss of protein C and protein S activity before the loss of the other clotting factors results in a transient state of hypercoagulability during the first days of treatment. The depletion of protein C becomes even more apparent in patients who already have a hereditary protein C deficiency, resulting in a greater risk of thrombosis and subsequent tissue infarction (which manifests as hemorrhagic skin necrosis), as seen in this patient.

Image File: 1613-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5be3047d48b2b.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Mutation in clotting factor V** - A mutation in clotting factor V is the underlying pathomechanism of factor V Leiden. This mutation renders factor V resistant to inactivation by protein C and results in a hypercoagulable state with an increased risk of thromboembolism. Classically, these patients have a history of repeated or early-onset venous thrombotic events. Although hemorrhagic skin necrosis has been reported in patients with the factor V Leiden mutation, it is extremely rare. The recent administration of an anticoagulant should raise suspicion of a different etiology.

**C - Damaged aortic valve** - A damaged aortic valve can predispose patients to the development of bacterial endocarditis, which can be complicated by septic thromboembolism. Septic thromboemboli can cause petechiae, splinter hemorrhages, Janeway lesions, or Osler nodes, but hemorrhagic skin lesions, which are seen in this patient, would not be expected. Furthermore, this patient does not have a new-onset murmur, fever, or risk factors for endocarditis (e.g., recent dental procedure). A damaged valve is not a risk factor for warfarin-related skin necrosis.

**D - Formation of antibodies against a platelet antigen** - Formation of antibodies against a platelet agent is the mechanism of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type 2 (HIT II). Administration of heparin (or, less commonly, low molecular weight heparin) can induce the formation of antibodies against platelet factor 4 (PF4), causing platelet aggregation and thrombosis. Affected patients develop thrombocytopenia 5–14 days after heparin therapy is initiated (as a result of platelet aggregation), and they can develop arterial or venous thrombosis. Hemorrhagic skin necrosis, as observed in this patient, is not associated with HIT.

**E - Elevated serum blood glucose** - Elevated serum blood glucose, as seen in diabetes mellitus, is a predisposing factor for skin infections such as cellulitis, cutaneous candidiasis, and necrotizing fasciitis. Although these lesions can appear similar to the lesions seen in this patient, they are less well-circumscribed. Additionally, other evidence of infection, such as fever, would be expected. The development of cutaneous hemorrhagic necrosis shortly after initiation of a new drug makes a different risk factor more likely in this patient.

**F - Major neurocognitive disorder** - A major neurocognitive disorder is a known risk factor for accidental medication overdose. In the case of warfarin, an accidental overdose would manifest with signs of dose-dependent bleeding that range from ecchymoses, gingival bleeding, and vaginal bleeding to life threatening gastrointestinal or intracranial bleeding. Hemorrhagic skin necrosis, as observed in this patient, is not associated with warfarin overdose.

