### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Pityriasis rosea** - Pityriasis rosea is a self-limited condition that most commonly affects children > 10 years of age and young adults. Although the exact etiology is unknown, pityriasis rosea is thought to be triggered by a viral infection. Some patients experience a prodromal phase with flu-like symptoms 1–2 weeks prior to rash onset, as seen here. The initial eruption typically appears as a single ovoid macule that is 2–10 cm in diameter, also known as a herald patch. This plaque is usually salmon-colored, slightly raised, and surrounded by a scaly, white collarette. The secondary eruption develops about 2–21 days later and is characterized by bilateral diffuse, oval-shaped papules and plaques that are smaller than the herald patch. Patients can also experience pruritus, for which topical emollients and/ or oral antihistamines may be prescribed. The rash typically resolves spontaneously in 6–8 weeks.

Image File: 1614-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_553e12bf3c203.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Tinea corporis** - Tinea corporis manifests with pruritic, round, erythematous plaques with scaling, central clearing, and raised borders, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, tinea corporis usually develops slowly and is not preceded by prodromal symptoms. Additionally, the rash does not start with a single, larger lesion followed by a secondary eruption of smaller, similar lesions.

Image File: 1614-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_584588d54a72c.jpg

**B - Lyme disease** - In the early localized stage, Lyme disease often manifests with a single erythematous lesion with central clearing (erythema migrans) that can be followed by a secondary stage where multiple, lesions develop. In addition, patients with Lyme disease often have flu-like symptoms in the early stages of the disease. Unlike in this 8-year-old girl, however, lesions of erythema migrans are neither scaly nor pruritic and, instead, have a typical “bull's eye” appearance. Finally, in Lyme disease, the secondary eruption develops weeks after the primary lesion, whereas this patient's secondary eruption developed a few days after the initial one.

Image File: 1614-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a81d8591f8ba.jpg

**C - Pityriasis versicolor** - Pityriasis versicolor manifests with scaly macules that are typically found on the chest and the trunk and can be accompanied by pruritus. However, this condition is also characterized by round, sharply demarcated macules that can be hyperpigmented or hypopigmented. Also, patients with pityriasis versicolor do not usually present with prodromal symptoms and the rash does not start with a single, larger lesion followed by a secondary eruption of smaller, similar lesions.

Image File: 1614-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60316b7043612.jpg

**E - Nummular eczema** - Nummular eczema manifests with large, coin-shaped, well-demarcated erythematous plaques that are pruritic and scaly. However, nummular eczema primarily affects the extremities and the lesions are usually confined to a smaller area. Also, patients with this condition do not present with prodromal symptoms and the rash does not begin with a single, larger lesion followed by a secondary eruption of smaller, similar lesions.

Image File: 1614-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58458d0dab934.jpg

**F - Measles** - Measles most commonly affects young children and manifests with a prodromal stage followed by an erythematous maculopapular rash, similar to what is seen here. Furthermore, this patient has not received any childhood vaccinations, which puts her at increased risk of developing measles. In the prodromal stage, however, patients with measles usually present with coryza, cough, and conjunctivitis. Measles manifests with a rash that originates behind the ears before spreading to the trunk and the extremities instead of a single, larger lesion followed by a secondary eruption with smaller, similar lesions. Finally, the rash is typically accompanied by fever and lymphadenopathy, neither of which is seen here.

Image File: 1614-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_54575982416bd.jpg

**G - Guttate psoriasis** - Guttate psoriasis most commonly occurs after streptococcal infections, which can manifest with fever, sore throat, and pharyngeal inflammation. Although guttate psoriasis also originates from the trunk and manifests with numerous, erythematous, scaly lesions, the papules are typically droplet-shaped and smaller than the lesions seen in this patient. Additionally, the rash does not start with a single, larger lesion followed by a secondary eruption of smaller, similar lesions.

Image File: 1614-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60c6735823486.jpg

