### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Branchial cleft cyst** - A branchial cleft cyst typically presents as a painless, cystic swelling that lies in the anterior triangle of the neck at a point between the upper one-third, and lower two-thirds of the anterior border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle. It is caused by failure of the second branchial cleft or cervical sinus to obliterate.

Image File: 1617-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ed8c85f7d452.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Thyroglossal duct cyst** - A thyroglossal duct cyst appears as a cystic, fluctuant swelling, and may have a uniformly hypoechogenic appearance on ultrasonography, as seen here. However, they are usually located in the midline of the neck (unlike the lateral neck swelling in this patient) and move upwards during swallowing.

Image File: 1617-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58b421ab9459a.jpg

**B - Cystic hygroma** - Although cystic hygromas appear as a soft, painless, fluid-filled fluctuant swelling, they are usually located in the posterior triangle of the neck (behind the sternocleidomastoid muscle) and arise typically before the age of 2 years. A swelling that arises in the anterior triangle of the neck in a 15-year-old girl is unlikely to be a cystic hygroma.

**C - Lymphadenopathy** - Lymphadenopathy could be a sign of infection or malignancy. This patient has no signs of infection (normal complete blood count, no fever). Additionally, despite the family history of cancer, there is no evidence to suggest malignancy (e.g., weight loss) in this patient. Most importantly, enlarged lymph nodes would appear as solid, nonfluctuant swellings rather than soft, fluctuant ones.

**D - Carotid body tumor** - Although a carotid body tumor may appear as a soft, painless swelling in the anterior triangle of the neck, they generally appear after 40 years of age and are usually pulsatile, making this condition an unlikely diagnosis.

**F - Laryngocele** - An external laryngocele may appear as a painless, swelling in the anterior triangle. However, these swellings are nonfluctuant (because they do not contain fluid) and characteristically increase in size with a Valsalva maneuver. Laryngoceles are also 5 times more common in men. In this adolescent girl, a fluctuant swelling that does not increase in size with a Valsalva maneuver suggests a different diagnosis.

**G - Infantile hemangioma** - Infantile hemangiomas appear as strawberry red or bluish lesions during infancy that generally resolve spontaneously and slowly during early childhood. They are typically noticed during the first days to months of life and would not appear in an adolescent patient, such as this 15-year-old girl.

Image File: 1617-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5880bd205bfa1.jpg

