### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - "Can you explain to me your understanding of how a copper intrauterine device works?"** - Enabling a shared decision-making process by ensuring that a patient understands a treatment or procedure is a key principle in patient-physician communication. A useful way to uncover possible misunderstandings is by asking the patient for his or her own perspective on a medication or procedure. Other features of shared decision-making include ensuring the patient knows his or her options, providing relevant facts, and encouraging the patient to discuss his or her thoughts about the options.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "Your symptoms are unlikely to be related to the oral contraceptive pill."** - This statement is incorrect. Breast pain is a common side effect of oral contraceptive pills. Moreover, the patient's opinion should be acknowledged.

**B - "Most of my patients in situations like yours have been very happy using this contraceptive method."** - Disclosure of other patients' experiences with a specific medication can influence a patient's decision. In this case, the patient's uncertainties about nonhormonal contraceptives were not acknowledged by the physician. Instead of mentioning other patients' experiences, the physician should provide neutral information to empower the patient in the shared decision-making process.

**D - "I really recommend trying a nonhormonal contraceptive. They are also very safe if used correctly."** - Breast pain is a common side effect of hormonal contraceptives and would likely resolve if the patient switched to a nonhormonal contraceptive. However, this patient explicitly stated that she is worried about the safety of nonhormonal contraceptives. The patient's preferences should not be dismissed; more information should be provided about the safety of nonhormonal contraceptives.

**E - "You seem unsure about the options presented. Would you like me to give you my personal opinion to help you with this decision?"** - Reflecting the patient's feelings to demonstrate listening and understanding is a good method of strengthening the patient-physician relationship. However, in a shared decision-making process, the physician should be as objective as possible and provide neutral information about the different options rather than offer personal opinions.

