### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Close the patient and obtain consent for a second operation** - Informed consent is a fundamental legal concept that applies to all physicians in all fields of medicine. If an incidental finding during surgery does not require immediate action, performing an additional procedure without patient consent is unlawful. In this patient undergoing cholecystectomy, the surgeon incidentally discovers hepatocellular carcinoma that does not currently pose immediate life-threatening harm. Therefore, closing the patient, waking her up, and obtaining consent is the most appropriate next step. In situations in which there is a threat of immediate harm if the patient is not treated, the need for full informed consent is waived. If a patient lacks decision-making capacity (e.g., due to coma), consent for nonemergency procedures should be obtained from the patient's designated medical power of attorney or, if there is no such designated person, a next of kin.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Proceed with additional surgery without obtaining consent** - Performing an additional surgical procedure without the patient's prior consent is only appropriate in emergency situations in which there is an immediate threat to the patient's life or health. Although the findings consistent with hepatocellular carcinoma are serious, they do not pose an immediate threat to this patient's life.

**B - Decrease the patient's sedation until she is able to provide consent** - Although decreasing the patient's sedation in order for her to provide consent for proceeding with surgery would avoid an additional surgery at a later point, it would also subject the patient to unnecessary pain and potential psychological trauma. Moreover, a patient regaining consciousness from sedation is unlikely to immediately have full decision-making capacity.

**C - Contact the patient's next of kin** - Obtaining consent from a surrogate decision-maker, such as the patient's next of kin, is appropriate for a patient without decision-making capacity who requires a nonemergency procedure (e.g., cancer surgery). This patient, however, does not lack decision-making capacity and will be capable of giving consent as soon as she regains consciousness.

**E - Schedule an emergency hospital ethics consultation** - Consulting the hospital ethics committee is appropriate for a patient without decision-making capacity who requires a nonemergency procedure (e.g., cancer surgery) and whose surrogate decision-maker is not available or is thought to be acting against the patient's preferences or best interest. This patient, however, does not lack decision-making capacity and will be capable of giving consent as soon as she regains consciousness.

