### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - “I'm sorry, I can't discuss any information with you without his permission. I recommend that you have an open discussion with your father.”** - Healthcare providers have a legal responsibility to protect patient medical information in accordance with patient preferences and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. This patient has decision-making capacity and expressed that he does not want his family members to know about his condition. This preference should be respected. Although there are some circumstances in which it is permissible to disclose information (e.g., the patient poses a danger to himself or others), none of these conditions are present in this case.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - “As your father's physician, I think that it's important that you know that his prostate cancer has returned. However, we are confident that he will respond well to treatment.”** - This response violates the patient's expressed preference, which is that he does not want his family members to know about his condition. This preference requires keeping any medical information, including the presence or absence of any particular condition, confidential.

**B - “It’s difficult to deal with parents aging, but I have experience helping families cope. We should sit down with your father and discuss this situation together.”** - This response undermines the patient's expressed preference, which is that he does not want his family members to know about his condition. Though it may be appropriate to convey the daughter's concern to the patient and encourage him to communicate with her, the physician must respect the patient's decision to maintain his privacy.

**D - “It concerns me that he's not speaking openly with you. I recommend that you seek medical power of attorney for your father. Then, we can legally discuss his diagnosis and treatment options together.”** - This response undermines the patient's expressed preference, which is that he does not want his family members to know about his condition. The patient has intact decision-making capacity, and his preferences must be respected. Questions of legal competence may arise during the care of patients who have reduced mental capacity (e.g., from severe psychiatric illness or intoxication), but these concerns are assessed by a court of law, not the treating physician.

**E - “Sorry, but because your father’s condition is not classified as a notifiable disease, I’m not permitted to discuss his medical information with you without first obtaining his consent.”** - This response undermines the patient's expressed preference, which is that he does not want his family members to know about his condition. This preference requires keeping any medical information, including the presence or absence of any particular condition, confidential.

**F - “Your father is very ill and may not want you to know the details. I can imagine it's frustrating for you, but you have to respect his discretion.”** - Though this response attempts to respect the patient's expressed preference, which is that he does not want his family members to know about his condition, it conveys information about the presence and severity of a medical condition and thus violates confidentiality.

