### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Framing** - Framing bias is the tendency for an individual's conclusions to be unduly influenced by the way information is presented (“framed”). The framing bias in this scenario is the result of a heuristic that makes people prefer an option when its positive aspects (positive frame) are highlighted and its negative ones (negative frame) are minimized (e.g., "glass half full" vs. “glass half empty”). The consequences of framing biases should be considered during patient counseling and when formulating public health messages. When using a shared decision-making strategy, the effects of framing bias can be minimized by providing both the positive and negative frames, and by using patient decision aids.

Cognitive biases can also affect health care providers. For example, the phrasing or order of presentation of information in electronic health records or during patient handovers and patient interviews can emphasize one aspect of the patient's health information over another aspect and lead to diagnostic errors as a result of a framing bias.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Anchoring** - Anchoring bias is the tendency for an individual to stick ("anchor") to a prior conclusion even when new information that goes against this conclusion is presented. An example of an anchoring bias is a situation in which a patient who believes that HPV vaccination is harmful does not change their mind even when the physician presents information supporting the safety and efficacy of HPV vaccination.

**C - Visceral** - Visceral bias refers to a tendency to allow positive or negative feelings to influence decision-making. An example of visceral bias would be a situation in which a patient refuses HPV vaccination because the patient mistrusts the physician as a result of transference.

**D - Confirmation** - Confirmation bias is the tendency for an individual to selectively seek and emphasize information that supports their prior conclusion and overlook information that goes against the conclusion. An example of confirmation bias is a situation in which a patient who already believes that HPV vaccination is harmful selectively reads up on adverse events following HPV vaccination.

**E - Availability** - Availability bias is the tendency to consider past events perceived as significant or readily recalled information as more representative of the truth than events perceived as insignificant or information that comes to mind less promptly. An example of availability bias would be a situation in which a patient refuses HPV vaccination after hearing about a friend who experiences syncope following HPV vaccination and fails to consider all the individuals who have not experienced any adverse event after HPV vaccination.

