### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Step two arm lengths away from the patient and offer the patient food and water** - To ensure personal safety when dealing with an aggressive patient, the HCP should step two arm lengths away and position themselves closer to the exit (so that there is an escape route) without blocking the patient's view or access to the exit. The HCP should then attempt verbal deescalation. Offering comfort measures (e.g., food, water) is an appropriate initial step. During verbal deescalation, only one HCP should talk to the patient; the HCP should remain calm, maintain a neutral expression, respect the patient's personal space, and avoid gestures that can be perceived as threatening (e.g., sudden movement, staring back at the patient, expressing a condescending or commanding attitude). The HCP should acknowledge the patient's feelings, ask what the patient wants, and allow the patient to choose between different acceptable options (e.g., sitting down or lying down); doing so gives the patient a sense of control while also clarifying rules and limits (e.g., informing the patient that violent or abusive behavior will not be accepted). The HCP should listen actively, use short sentences and simple words, seek out points on which they and the patient can agree, and give the patient time to process information and respond.

If the patient continues to remain aggressive despite attempts at verbal deescalation, it is appropriate to ask the patient to voluntarily take a calming medication orally before considering use of force. The use of force (e.g., physical restraints, involuntary sedation) should only be considered if all other measures fail or if the patient is actively violent. Physical restraints and/or involuntary sedation should not be used as punishment and should be removed as soon as feasible.

Question Difficulty: 0

** Other Answers: **

**A - Use the additional personnel to set up a four-point restraint on the patient** - When dealing with an aggressive patient, the use of force, such as physical restraints (e.g., a four-point restraint) or chemical restraints, should be a last resort.

**B - Stand between the patient and the ED exit and request that the patient take a sedative medication orally** - When dealing with an aggressive patient, the HCP should position themself closer to the exit than the patient to ensure an escape route in case the aggressive behavior escalates. If a chemical restraint is indicated, it is also appropriate for the HCP to request that the patient voluntarily take the calming medication orally before considering use of force (e.g., physical restraints, involuntary sedation). However, the HCP should not block the exit by standing between the patient and the exit, because this action can be perceived as threatening and lead to escalation of the aggressive behavior. Moreover the HCP should attempt verbal deescalation before considering the use of a chemical restraint.

**C - Take turns speaking to the patient with another health care provider** - When dealing with an aggressive patient, it is important to have other HCPs nearby to provide assistance in case the aggressive behavior escalates. However, only one HCP should talk to the patient so as not to confuse them.

**E - Sit next to the patient and maintain eye contact in silence until the patient calms down** - When dealing with an aggressive patient, the HCP should maintain a safe distance to ensure personal safety and attempt to speak to the patient in a calm tone to deescalate the situation. The HCP should avoid maintaining eye contact because it can be perceived as a threatening gesture and lead to escalation of aggressive behavior by the patient.

