### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Perform a failure mode and effects analysis** - A failure mode and effect analysis (FMEA) is a prospective medical error analysis used to evaluate the potential risks and failures of an initiative, and the impact that these failures might have. In this specific scenario, an FMEA would explore any potential security and privacy breaches that might take place when using smartphones for internal communication (failure mode). After that, the reasons for failure (failure causes) and the outcomes of potential failures (failure effects) would be identified. An additional benefit of an FMEA is that it would aid in the design of measures to prevent these breaches from occurring, should the new smartphone system be implemented.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Plan a randomized controlled trial with residents** - A randomized controlled trial (RCT) is a prospective, experimental, analytical study to determine the effect of an intervention on a given population. In this scenario, an RCT would likely require half the doctors to use pagers and the other half to use smartphones. The outcomes on patient care and medical error would then be compared in the two groups. RCTs are considered the gold standard for clinical trials. However, RCTs are costly and time-consuming. Additionally, RCTs involve the practical implementation of an intervention that could potentially be harmful to the patient. This study design would therefore expose patients to the real risks of a smartphone system, and not just evaluate for potential risks.

**B - Conduct a root cause analysis** - A root cause analysis is a retrospective analysis and only analyzes medical errors that have already taken place. Since the smartphone system still needs to be implemented, a root cause analysis would not be beneficial in assessing the potential benefits and risks of such a system. This analysis could be used to assist in analyzing the current paging system's technical issues and the resulting miscommunication and delays in patient care. The results of the root cause analysis can then be used to plan interventions to address specific problems within the paging system.

**C - Perform a systematic review of smartphone use in hospitals** - A systematic review (SR) provides a detailed and qualitative assessment of a specific question by reviewing the results of multiple studies. This analysis could be done to review the results of previous studies of smartphone systems in hospitals. However, an SR would not provide the benefit of assessing this hospital's situation specifically. Moreover, limited good-quality studies might be available to perform a comprehensive review. An SR would therefore not be the best method to assess the risks and benefits of a smartphone system for this hospital.

