### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - "I cannot imagine how hard this must be for you. You say you no longer see the light at the end of the tunnel. Are you having thoughts of suicide?"** - Through this reaction, the physician shows empathy and specifically asks about suicidal ideation. Assessing a patient's suicide risk is the most important diagnostic step for any depressed individual. If the patient confirms that he is having suicidal ideation, the physician should also ask the patient if he has thought of a means of suicide (suicidal plan), assess the degree to which he intends to put the plan into action (suicidal intent), and evaluate whether additional risk factors for suicide completion are present (e.g., possession of a firearm, personal and family history of prior suicide attempts). If the patient is suicidal, they should be admitted to the hospital. Treatment of a major depressive episode often requires a combination of antidepressants, psychotherapy, and lifestyle changes.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - "Considering what you have been going through, it is absolutely normal to feel that way. You will see that things will become easier for you over time!"** - Through this reaction, the physician minimizes the patient's symptoms. Although it could be normal for the patient to occasionally have some of his symptoms (e.g., depressed mood, decreased sleep, decreased concentration) as a part of grief, it is not normal to have them on a persistent basis or have unexplained weight loss over 8 months. Moreover, by saying, “You will see that things will become easier for you over time!" the physician is making promises that cannot be guaranteed.

**C - "It sounds like you are depressed, but before we begin treatment for depression, I would like to evaluate you for any underlying conditions that may be causing your mood changes."** - Depression can be caused by organic conditions (e.g., hypothyroidism, CNS neoplasm, Parkinson disease), and it is necessary to evaluate patients with features of depression for organic disease. However, since depression can be life-threatening, there is something more pressing that the physician should first address with this patient.

**D - "This is obviously a very difficult time for you and it would be normal to turn to certain substances when you are feeling this way. Would you be willing to provide a urine sample for testing?"** - Depression can be caused by a substance use disorder, and it is necessary to evaluate any patient with features of depression for a substance use disorder. However, it would be inappropriate to perform a urine toxicology screen before first directly asking the patient about substance use and examining the patient for signs of a substance use disorder.

**E - "Losing your brother must have been extremely hard for you. Would you be willing to speak with a grief counselor?"** - A referral to a grief counselor is appropriate for the management of grief, which is caused by the death of a loved one and can present with symptoms such as a depressed mood, disturbed sleep, and decreased concentration, as seen here. However, the symptoms of grief tend to occur in waves (grief pangs), decrease over time, and are not associated with functional impairment or feelings of desperation. This patient's presentation is consistent with a major depressive episode and cannot be treated by grief counseling alone. Moreover, even in patients with grief, it is important to first ask a specific question in order to differentiate normal from pathological grief.

**F - "After the death of your brother, it is even more important to stay close to your family. What do you think about starting to attend family therapy with your wife?"** - The patient said that he has been having marital issues with his wife, so seeing a family therapist with his wife could be beneficial. However, since depression can be life-threatening, there is something more pressing that the physician should first address with this patient.

