### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Increase in the frequency of readmissions after surgery** - The FFS model provides reimbursements for each unbundled health care service provided, rewarding activity rather than efficient use of resources. This can lead to overutilization and fragmentation of health care services, as evidenced, for example, by an increase in readmission frequency and/or duplications of services. Furthermore, the FFS model does not reward performance, good outcomes, and/or coordination of services. Together, these effects lead to increased health care expenditures. Nevertheless, the FFS model is the dominant payment model in the US. Advantages of this model include price transparency, large revenues for the health care providers, and a decrease in administrative overhead.

Alternatives to the FFS model include the discounted fee-for-service model, the per diem payment model, the capitation model, and the bundled payment model. All of these models aim to overcome the disadvantages of the traditional FFS model (e.g., inefficient utilization of resources) but are not without their own disadvantages (e.g., increased duration of hospital stay with per diem payment).

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increase in overhead expenditure for reimbursement** - The FFS model has less overhead expenditure than other reimbursement models because it is easy to bill for each scheduled service. Moreover, hospitals with the FSS model tend not to implement services that improve quality of care if they do not directly generate income (e.g., training staff) and the absence of such services further decreases the administrative burden. Models such as pay-for-performance tend to increase overhead expenditure.

**B - Decrease in the number of preventable adverse events** - In the FFS model, the health care provider is reimbursed for each service provided, regardless of performance and/or outcome. A decrease in the number of preventable adverse events would not be the most likely effect of the implementation of an FFS system because such a model does not provide any incentives for decreasing error rates. On the contrary, healthcare providers are reimbursed for each subsequent service made necessary by an error.

**C - Decrease in self-referral rates for laparoscopic procedures** - The FFS model provides unbundled reimbursements for each health care service provided, rewarding activity rather than efficient use of resources. This model tends to incentivize overtreatment and would most likely lead to an increase rather than a decrease in self-referral rates and procedures (e.g., laparoscopic cholecystectomy).

**E - Decrease in the use of diagnostic radiology services** - In the FFS model, the health care provider is reimbursed for each service provided rather than for the treatment of a patient’s condition over the entire care cycle. Reimbursement for each individual service regardless of the previous results obtained by other providers tends to foster duplication, lack of coordination, and lack of accountability. This would lead to an increase rather than a decrease in the use of diagnostic radiology services.

