### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - "What is your understanding of your husband's current condition?"** - Asking open-ended questions is an integral part of the second step of the SPIKES protocol and helps establish the basis for delivering bad news effectively and compassionately. Awareness of how the patient's wife perceives the situation can help the physician clear up misconceptions that she may have and convey bad news in a way that accommodates her degree of understanding. For conversations that require extensive discussion about end-of-life care and decision-making, it is especially important that patients and their caregivers understand a diagnosis and its associated prognosis.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - "Have you discussed a living will or goals of care together?"** - This question is appropriate in the context of the last step in the SPIKES protocol (“Summarizing” and developing a “Strategy”). However, it is unethical to discuss plans for the future (e.g., end-of-life decisions) with the patient's wife before consulting the patient and discussing the diagnosis and prognosis together.

**C - "We should talk about how we can manage his symptoms with additional chemotherapy."** - Initiating the conversation with treatment options is misguided for several reasons. This response fails to address the wife's questions and concerns. In addition, it does not respect the patient's autonomy, as it assumes that he seeks further treatment. Moreover, offering additional chemotherapy to this patient is inappropriate for his stage of illness.

**D - "Your husband has end-stage cancer, and his prognosis is poor."** - Discussion about the details of a condition is part of the fourth step of the SPIKES protocol (“Knowledge”). This statement is not an appropriate way to begin a conversation with the patient's wife. Moreover, when delivering bad news, it is more appropriate to buffer the shock that comes with receiving bad news with a warning statement (e.g., “I'm afraid I have some bad news...”) before delivering the facts.

**E - "Why do you think your husband has not discussed his medical condition with you?"** - Although open-ended questions are a cornerstone of patient-centered care models, this question is not relevant to the discussion. The patient has requested that the physician deliver the bad news; investigating his motivations for doing so are not appropriate at this time. In addition, this question may be perceived as insensitive or judgmental, sparking conflict between the patient and his wife at a time when they most need compassionate support.

