### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Availability** - The availability bias describes a tendency to make judgments based on the availability of information in an individual's memory. Readily recalled information/events are believed to be more relevant and representative, whereas information that comes to mind less promptly is perceived as less likely to be true. In medicine, the availability bias typically occurs when a physician picks a diagnosis that comes to mind easily and quickly, e.g., when several patients with a similar clinical presentation were recently diagnosed with a certain disease. The availability bias often results in the correct diagnosis being made, but it also can also result in diagnostic errors, as seen here.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Confirmation** - Confirmation bias occurs when information that confirms or strengthens one's beliefs is favored over information that contradicts them. In medicine, confirmation bias describes the tendency to selectively focus on evidence that is in favor of a presumed diagnosis while not trying to find or ignoring information that goes against that diagnosis. This bias can lead to diagnostic errors. Confirmation bias is understood as an error of overattachment to a particular diagnosis.

**B - Anchoring** - Anchoring bias occurs when an individual sticks (“anchors”) with an initial impression or piece of information when making decisions and does not adjust his or her thinking when receiving new information. In medicine, this bias can lead to diagnostic errors if a physician stands by a diagnosis based on information received early in the diagnostic process (e.g., laboratory result), even though new information supporting a different diagnosis has been received. Anchoring bias is understood as an error of overattachment to a particular diagnosis.

**C - Visceral** - Visceral bias refers to a tendency to allow positive or negative feelings to influence decision making. In medicine, this bias can lead to under- or overdiagnosis based on a physician's feelings towards a patient. Visceral bias is understood as an error associated with physician affect or personality.

**D - Framing** - Framing bias occurs when the way information is presented (e.g., with a positive or negative connotation) unduly influences the conclusions reached by a second person. In medicine, this bias can lead to diagnostic errors, e.g., when certain evidence is emphasized or left out. Framing bias is understood as an error due to inheriting someone else's thinking.

