### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - "I understand that you are frustrated and angry, and I apologize for the inconvenience. Let's talk about your concerns."** - An appropriate response to this patient's frustration should apologize for the situation, empathically acknowledge the patient's anger, refrain from justifying or explaining the delay, and turn the focus of attention back to the patient.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "I'm very sorry for the delay. I had a very sick patient who required immediate care."** - An appropriate response to this patient's frustration should include an apology for the situation. However, the response should refrain from justifying or explaining the delay and keep the focus of attention on the patient rather than the clinician's personal feelings.

**B - "You have a right to be frustrated, but shouting at me is not appropriate. I am afraid I will have to ask you to leave."** - This patient is justifiably unhappy, but there is no indication of verbal or physical threat to the clinician that merits his removal from the situation.

**C - "Let me apologize on behalf of my staff, who is responsible for most of the delay. I can assure you, there will be consequences for this."** - An appropriate response to this patient's frustration should include an apology for the situation. However, explaining the delay or attributing it to other staff members may lead the patient to view the clinician as unempathetic, unconcerned, or unwilling to take responsibility.

**D - "I can understand your distress and would not blame you if you choose to transfer care to another physician."** - An appropriate response to this patient's frustration should empathically acknowledge the patient's anger. However, discussions about transfer-of-care are premature without an attempt to restore the clinician-patient relationship and may come across as abandoning the patient.

