### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - "There is no need to worry because differences between twins reaching milestones are normal."** - Developmental milestones are based on the mean age at which most children can perform a particular task; some children attain these milestones before the mean age while others attain it later. Twins can also develop at different rates, just like the normal population. The definition of developmental delay varies depending on the state but, as a general rule, a developmental delay should be suspected when the child's age is > 25% of the mean age at which a particular milestone is attained or > 1.5 standard deviations on a standardized developmental screening test. The mean age at which infants attain the ability to prop themselves up while prone using the hands is 4 months. As per the 25% rule, a delay in attaining this milestone would be present when the child is not able to perform this task at 5 months. This response by the physician is, therefore, most appropriate. The mother's concern should be noted and the twin should be reassessed during the next well-child visit at 6 months.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "There is no reason for concern, but I will order blood tests to rule out a genetic disorder."** - Further evaluation including reviewing the newborn screening test and assessing for a genetic disorder would be warranted if the twin who cannot yet prop himself up failed to obtain the milestone by the time of his next well-child examination. At this time, there is no reason to pursue further testing.

**B - "I will refer you to a developmental pediatrician for further assessment."** - Further evaluation including a referral to a developmental pediatrician would be warranted if the twin who cannot yet prop himself up failed to obtain the milestone by the time of his next well-child examination. At this time, there is no reason for a referral.

**C - "We will set up examinations at shorter intervals until both children have achieved the same milestones."** - The twin who is unable to prop himself up will need to be reassessed at his next well-child examination, but there is no need to set up examinations at shorter intervals. Frequent examinations are only required for infants with certain risk factors (e.g., perinatal complications, genetic disorders, history of living in impoverished conditions, and/or domestic violence in the family), which are not present here.

**D - "I will order a detailed neurological assessment to further investigate your child's developmental delay."** - The twin who is unable to prop himself up would need a detailed neurological assessment only if he has red flags (e.g., hypertonia/hypotonia, dysmorphism, failure to thrive, positive newborn screening). Since he does not have any such red flags a detailed neurological assessment is not indicated at this time; he only needs to be re-assessed at his next well-child examination. If he has failed to obtain the milestone by then, a detailed neurological examination will be performed.

