### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Pronounce death and attempt to contact the patient's family** - Although no single factor or specific combination of factors can clearly predict the outcome of resuscitative efforts in a hospital setting, it is appropriate to pronounce death in this patient when all the scenario-specific features are taken into account (e.g., effective CPR for > 30 minutes without ROSC, no shockable rhythm). Performing procedures on newly deceased patients can provide valuable hands-on training for inexperienced health care providers. However, consent from the next of kin is required for each procedure if the deceased's preferences are not known. According to the Uniform Anatomical Gifts Act, in the absence of an advance directive or emergency medical contacts in the patient's records, emergency physicians and medical technicians are allowed to search through the patient's belongings and may share their personal information (e.g., social security number) with authorities to identify them.

If the next of kin cannot be located within a reasonable time frame, it is ethically inappropriate to use the body of a deceased patient for training purposes, regardless of the degree of invasiveness of the procedure. If consent is obtained, the training procedures should be organized systematically and conducted under close supervision while ensuring a respectful environment for the deceased and their family.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Continue CPR and attempt to contact the patient's family** - When the deceased's preferences are not known (e.g., no advance directives), consent from the next of kin should be obtained before any training procedure can be performed, so it is appropriate to contact this patient's family. However, considering all the scenario-specific features associated with a poor outcome, continuing CPR would be futile.

**C - Pronounce death and allow both procedures to be performed under supervision** - Considering all the scenario-specific features associated with a poor outcome, it is appropriate to pronounce this patient dead. However, when the deceased's preferences are not known (e.g., no advance directives), consent from the next of kin should be obtained before any training procedure is performed, regardless of the level of supervision.

**D - Pronounce death and allow femoral vein catheterization under supervision** - Considering all the scenario-specific features associated with a poor outcome, it is appropriate to pronounce this patient dead. However, when the deceased's preferences are not known (e.g., no advance directives), consent from the next of kin should be obtained before any training procedure is performed, regardless of the degree of invasiveness or level of supervision.

**E - Continue CPR and allow femoral vein catheterization under supervision** - Considering all the scenario-specific features associated with a poor outcome, continuing CPR would be futile. When the deceased's preferences are not known (e.g., no advance directives), consent from the next of kin should be obtained before any training procedure can be performed, regardless of the degree of invasiveness or level of supervision.

**F - Continue CPR and allow both procedures to be performed under supervision** - Considering all the scenario-specific features associated with a poor outcome, continuing CPR would be futile. When the deceased's preferences are not known (e.g., no advance directives), consent from the next of kin should be obtained before any training procedure can be performed, regardless of the level of supervision.

