### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Politely decline and explain that he cannot accept valuable gifts from his patients.** - There is a general consensus that physicians should decline gifts from patients and pharmaceutical companies to avoid potential conflicts of interest and conveying the impression of favoritism or preferential treatment. Physicians should especially avoid accepting gifts that are very large and/or potentially valuable (e.g., a framed painting, jewelry, etc.) and could be regarded as a payoff. Gifts of a very personal or intimate nature (e.g., a family heirloom or an invitation to a dinner date) should also be declined as accepting them could be regarded as transgressing the boundaries of a professional relationship.

The American Medical Association's Code of Medical Ethics permits the acceptance of gifts of substantial monetary value by physicians under certain conditions bound to strict recommendations (e.g., gifts that benefit patients, support medical education, etc.).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Accept the gift to maintain a positive patient-physician relationship but decline any further gifts.** - In most instances, gifts represent an expression of gratitude or a cultural tradition (e.g., gifts given during holidays). Physicians should be sensitive to the value and intent of a patient's gift, communicating effectively when declining a gift that doing so has professional reasons and that the rejection will not affect the therapeutic alliance with the patient. Nevertheless, physicians should avoid accepting any gifts (now and in the future) that are very personal or intimate in nature, very large, and/or potentially valuable.

**B - Accept the gift and promise to keep it in the doctor's office.** - Physicians should avoid accepting gifts that are very personal or intimate in nature, very large, and/or potentially valuable. Where the gift is ultimately used or displayed does not affect this principle.

**D - Politely decline and explain that he cannot accept gifts that belonged to her late husband.** - While physicians should decline gifts that are very personal or intimate in nature, very large, and/or potentially valuable, they should do so to avoid potential conflicts of interest and conveying the impression of favoritism or preferential treatment. The reason for declining a gift is not the gift's sentimental value to the patient or, in this case, to this patient's deceased husband.

**E - Accept the gift and assure the patient that he will take good care of her.** - Physicians should avoid accepting gifts that are very personal or intimate in nature, very large, and/or potentially valuable. Furthermore, a physician should not convey the impression that a gift may lead to preferential treatment in the future.

