### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - "I anticipate the patient will be in the hospital for at least 3 days."** - According to the HIPAA privacy rule, access to and disclosure of protected health information must be limited to the minimum necessary to fulfill the intended function for which it was requested. In this case, the intended function is to facilitate claims payments, which is covered under “Permitted Uses and Disclosures” in the HIPAA, and the patient's health insurance company only requested information on the duration of hospitalization for this purpose. This response is most appropriate because it provides the requested information and nothing beyond that.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - "So I won't have to repeat the information multiple times, let me also get her daughter and son on the phone."** - According to the HIPAA privacy rule, disclosure of protected health information to certain covered entities, such as a patient's health insurance company, is allowable, within limitations. However, unless the patient has given consent, protected health information should not be shared with the patient's relatives.

**B - "I am not allowed to share information with you because that would be a violation of HIPAA."** - According to the HIPAA privacy rule, limited disclosure of protected health care information to a health care insurance company is allowed without requesting consent from the patient. However, the amount of information has to be limited to the minimum necessary to fulfill the intended function for which it was requested.

**C - "I am not able to share information without you providing proof of identification.”** - According to the HIPAA privacy rule, protected health information can be passed on by a health care provider to a health insurance company without proof of identification.

**E - "She will be receiving at least one blood transfusion and it is too early to know how long she will be in the hospital."** - According to the HIPAA privacy rule, disclosure of protected health information should be limited to the minimum amount necessary to perform a particular task. In this case, the patient's health insurance company requested information on the expected duration of the hospital stay but did not ask for information about the exact treatment of the patient. Therefore, mentioning that the patient requires a blood transfusion violates the HIPAA privacy rule.

