### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Try to contact the father for consent** - The most appropriate action would be to contact the patient's father. This patient does not have decision-making capacity and there is no written advance directive to guide treatment. Therefore, a surrogate decision-maker is required to act on this patient's behalf in an effort to represent his best interests. The accepted order of surrogate decision-makers, in the absence of documentation appointing a specific decision-maker, is the following: spouse, adult child, parent, sibling, and other relatives.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Avoid dialysis in line with the patient's wishes** - Although the friend has reported that this patient previously stated he would not want dialysis, it is not clear that the statement is a reliable oral advance directive. Without a legally binding written advance directive (e.g., a living will), it is unknown whether: the patient was informed about the benefits and risks of dialysis; his preference was specific to the particular clinical scenario; the preference was stable over time. Making treatment decisions based on the neighbor's report, therefore, would not be appropriate at this time.

**B - Start dialysis when required** - Before initiating dialysis, informed consent must be obtained from a patient. In the case of a patient without capacity, this consent would need to be obtained from a surrogate decision-maker. Certain exceptions exist (e.g., when dialysis is indicated immediately) that permit the consent process to be bypassed. This patient has no indication (e.g., acidosis, electrolyte imbalance, severe fluid overload) for immediate dialysis.

**D - File for legal guardianship** - If a patient lacks decision-making capacity and does not have a surrogate decision-maker (identified by an advance directive or through next-of-kin), a legal guardian may be assigned by a court of law to make decisions on behalf of the patient. This patient has a living father and a friend, either of whom could be eligible to act as a surrogate decision-maker. Therefore, seeking a legally appointed guardian would not be appropriate at this time.

**E - Consult ethics committee** - If, after exhaustive effort, no surrogate decision-maker can be located, the ethics committee may be consulted to make medical decisions on behalf of patients who lack capacity. The committee would take into account what is known about the patient's own preferences for interventions such as dialysis. Before involving the ethics committee, however, the most appropriate step would be to try to locate a surrogate decision-maker.

