### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - "I understand that you want to go home, but I'll have to keep you here as long as you are intoxicated."** - This patient's decision-making capacity is impaired on account of his intoxication. He is likely to be unable to give consent or reach an informed decision regarding his treatment options at this time and should, therefore, be kept at the hospital until sober.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - "If you don't consent to treatment, I'll be forced to obtain consent from your parents."** - Before treating a patient with permanently impaired decision-making capacity, consent from a legal guardian or a person with the power of attorney must be obtained. In the event of a life-threatening condition, a physician may initiate treatment of a patient against his or her will, if that patient's decision-making capacity is impaired. However, this patient's condition is not immediately life-threatening and his impaired decision-making capacity is likely to be temporary. Therefore, it would be more appropriate to wait until he was sober to make a definitive decision.

**B - "Have you ever felt you should cut down on your drinking?"** - Questioning a patient about cutting down on drinking is the first of the CAGE questions, which are used to screen for problematic drinking. This question would be appropriate during a follow-up evaluation. However, considering this patient's acute intoxication, it would be unlikely to lead to a productive dialogue.

**C - "You can leave the hospital after signing a self-discharge against medical advice form."** - A patient with intact decision-making capacity may always choose to leave the hospital. However, this patient's intoxication reduces his capacity to fully understand the consequences of his medical condition. Discharging an intoxicated patient might endanger the patient's health and also have untoward legal consequences for the responsible physician.

**D - "Please let me know if you would agree to one of the alternative treatment options."** - Informing patients about alternative treatment options is crucial to informed consent. However, this patient's intoxication reduces his capacity to fully understand the consequences of his medical condition and to rationally consider different treatment options.

**F - "I can't force you to stay here, but I'll have to inform your dean of this incident."** - A patient with intact decision-making capacity may always leave the emergency department at his own request. However, this patient's intoxication reduces his capacity to fully understand the consequences of his medical condition. Furthermore, the physician should not inform the patient's dean of the incident, as that would be a breach of patient confidentiality.

