### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Request further information about which drugs he has taken recently and in the past** - This patient's behavior and history of illicit drug use raises suspicion for substance use disorder. It is the physician's responsibility to guard against misuse of prescription drugs while properly assessing and treating the patient's pain. To do so, they must avoid prejudice and cognitive bias. It is therefore appropriate in this case to request further information regarding the patient's drug use, to determine whether he has a history of substance use disorder and/or is actively receiving narcotic prescriptions from multiple physicians.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Prescribe a long-acting opioid for better pain relief if he is willing to sign a pain contract** - A pain contract aims to control opioid administration by ensuring that patients take opioids exactly as prescribed. It may be indicated for patients undergoing narcotic therapy, especially for chronic pain. It is not clear from this patient's presentation whether he requires pain management with opioids. His behavior and presentation raise concern for substance use disorder, and prescribing a long-acting opioid may increase the risk of drug misuse. A different response is more appropriate at this time.

**C - Request consent for urine test to assess current drug use** - This patient's behavior and history of cocaine use raise suspicion for substance use disorder, and a urine test could be helpful in determining whether the patient is misusing other drugs. However, because the patient was recently prescribed opioids, the test would not be helpful for determining whether the patient has been using opioids recreationally. Moreover, requesting consent for a urine drug test would likely alienate this patient. A different response is more appropriate at this time.

**D - Prescribe a short course of oxycodone and schedule a follow-up appointment in one week** - A short-course prescription for oxycodone with follow up may be indicated for patients requiring management of severe pain. It is not clear from this patient's presentation whether he still requires pain management with opioids. His behavior and presentation raise concern for substance use disorder, and prescribing oxycodone may increase the risk of drug misuse. A different response is more appropriate at this time.

**E - Refer to a substance use counselor for addiction counseling** - A substance use counselor can be helpful in counseling individuals with substance use disorders. This patient's behavior and history of cocaine use raise suspicion for substance use disorder, but it is too early to determine whether this is actually the case. Referring the patient to a substance use counselor at this point would not be appropriate and could result in a loss of rapport with the patient.

