### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Resource stewardship** - Resource stewardship refers to the concept of managing the distribution of limited health care resources in order to avoid unnecessary testing and procedures. This means that more resources will be directed to the individuals who need them the most and patients will be spared from undergoing unnecessary procedures that may be more harmful than beneficial. For example, this patient, who underwent a total hysterectomy, is no longer at risk for cervical cancer and therefore does not require further Pap smears or screening for human papillomavirus. One way of improving resource stewardship is the lean process improvement method, in which factors that use time, energy, and resources but do not improve patient outcomes (also referred to as “waste”) are continuously identified and eliminated.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Therapeutic privilege** - Therapeutic privilege refers to a situation in which a physician withholds relevant health information from the patient if disclosure may cause severe psychological harm to the patient. In this case, therapeutic privilege does not apply because the physician did not withhold any information from the patient.

**C - Shared decision-making** - Shared decision-making is a communication principle in which patients and physicians decide on the best treatment option together. In this case, the physician made a recommendation without first consulting with the patient, which means this was not a shared decision-making process.

**D - Healthcare ergonomics** - Healthcare ergonomics refers to the concept of creating a work environment that provides optimal working conditions for health care workers, which reduces injuries, ensures safety, and optimizes efficiency. This concept can be applied to the design of medical equipment, new medical technologies, and optimizing processes, but it does not apply to this scenario.

**E - Medical reconciliation** - Medical reconciliation is the process of a physician comparing the patient's current prescribed medications to the ones actually taken in order to avoid medication errors (e.g., drug interactions, dosing errors, duplications, and omissions). The physician's recommendation to stop Pap smears and HPV testing does not count as medical reconciliation.

