### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Bring the case to the hospital ethics committee** - When there is a difference of opinion between the family and the medical team over life-sustaining measures in a patient with established brain death, the AMA Principles of Medical Ethics recommend seeking consultation from an independent, objective medium, like an ethics committee. However, note that it is medically appropriate to discontinue therapy after brain death. Technically, the physician does not need to obtain the family's permission to remove life support. Nevertheless, recommendations mostly advocate an empathetic approach, which meets the family's emotional needs and tries to reach a mutual understanding.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Discontinue all life-supporting measures and exclude the family from the decision-making process** - Discontinuing therapy after brain death is medically appropriate, and the physician does not need to obtain the family's permission to end life-sustaining measures. However, excluding the family without further efforts at communication would be unempathetic and not responsive to the family's emotional needs. The AMA Principles of Medical Ethics recommend an alternative approach in the case of a difference of opinion over life support in a patient with brain death.

**C - Explain that the patient is dead and life support has to be stopped because the treatment of other patients is more important now** - Discontinuing therapy after brain death is appropriate, and the reasons for doing so should be communicated transparently and empathetically to the patient's surrogate (in this case, his family). However, this should be done with care and respect for the family's emotional needs. Although the capacities of the health care system are limited and other patients need treatment, it is insensitive and potentially confrontational to tell the family about that at this point. The AMA Principles of Medical Ethics recommend an alternative approach in the case of a difference of opinion over life support in a patient with brain death.

**D - Respect the family’s autonomy and maintain life support indefinitely** - The patient, or if applicable his surrogate decision-maker (in this case, the family), should be included in the decision-making process whenever possible, and their autonomy needs to be respected. However, it is medically appropriate to discontinue therapy after brain death.

**E - Obtain a CT angiography to confirm absent intracranial blood flow** - CT angiography of the brain is an accepted ancillary method for establishing brain death. However, it is not necessary for this patient whose diagnosis has already been properly established by two different neurological examinations showing the absence of brainstem reflexes, and an apnea test. Ancillary brain death tests are only indicated when the neurological examination or the apnea test cannot be performed (e.g., severe facial trauma).

