### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Encourage a family meeting** - A family meeting with the patient's husband, sister, and members of the healthcare team could provide clarification as to what the patient would have desired had she been able to make the decision herself. Although the patient's sister and husband currently disagree, a discussion about the patient's own goals and values could encourage family agreement and facilitate better surrogate decision-making. If a resolution of the disagreement is not possible, the husband will most likely have the final say as his wife's next of kin.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Consult the hospital ethics committee** - Consulting the hospital ethics committee is appropriate if there is a complicated, unresolved ethical dilemma in which the stakeholders would benefit from the involvement of professionals (physicians, nurses, social workers, bioethicists) with advanced training in facilitating difficult decision-making. However, an ethics consult is more appropriate if there is a conflict between the four core bioethics principles of autonomy, beneficence, nonmaleficence, and justice. Disagreements between family members are routine in medical care, and the team should first attempt another course of action.

**B - Initiate total parenteral nutrition** - Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) is not indicated in this patient because she can still receive enteral nutrition (e.g., PEG).

**D - Request a court-appointed guardian** - A request for a court-appointed guardian for a patient who lacks the capacity to make medical decisions is typically made when there is no medical power of attorney or next-of-kin available to serve as surrogate decision-maker. In this scenario, the patient has multiple family members involved. Another approach would better facilitate reaching a decision in the best interests of the patient.

**E - Transfer to a physician specialized in hospice care** - Hospice care is not indicated here, as there is no suggestion that the patient is terminally ill and expected to live less than six months.

