### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - "I see that you have changed your mind. Could you explain to me in your own words what you understand about gastrostomy?"** - This patient's sudden change in the decision to undergo an invasive surgical procedure, in combination with mildly impaired cognition (Mini-Mental State Examination score of 23/30) and features of schizophrenia (e.g., flat affect), should prompt a reassessment of his decision-making capacity. The first part of this statement acknowledges the patient's wish via active listening, in keeping with the PEARLS model. The second part helps to assess his decision-making capacity, which includes evaluation of the patient's understanding of the situation and ability to use information to make a choice. Though this patient has articulated a choice, it is not yet clear if he is able to assimilate and process the potential outcomes of the proposed procedure, despite the physician's previous explanations. Standardized instruments, such as the MacArthur Competence Assessment Tool, are used to evaluate capacity and legal competence and involve a semi-structured interview with open-ended questions to explore the patient's reasoning.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "I know that you initially decided against the procedure. Are you sure that you want a gastrostomy?"** - Although the first part of this statement acknowledges the patient's wish via active listening (in keeping with the PEARLS model), it is followed by a close-ended question (i.e., the patient may respond with only a "yes" or "no”), which does not help to assess his decision-making capacity.

**B - "This must have been a difficult decision for you. Would you allow me to perform a preoperative assessment if this is your final choice?"** - This statement acknowledges the patient's feelings in an empathetic manner, in keeping with the PEARLS model. However, performing a preoperative examination is premature at this time because the patient's decision-making capacity has not yet been assessed.

**D - "Your brother seems to disagree with your choice. Could you talk to him first?"** - This patient has named his brother the medical power of attorney (POA), and it is reasonable for him to discuss his condition and preferences with his brother. The POA is tasked with making decisions for the patient if the patient lacks decision-making capacity. In this scenario, the patient's decision-making capacity has not yet been assessed.

**E - "This must be a difficult decision to make. Would you like to talk to another physician?"** - This statement acknowledges the patient's feelings in an empathetic manner, in keeping with the PEARLS model. However, referring this patient to another physician is not medically indicated at this time, and the patient has not requested to speak with another physician.

