### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Reevaluate the patient when she is no longer sedated** - An agitated patient that shows violent behavior and poses an imminent threat to themself or others can be physically restrained and/or chemically sedated if other deescalation methods (e.g., verbal techniques) are unsuccessful, as seen here. After the patient has calmed down or adequate sedation has been achieved, restraints should be removed immediately. Once the patient is no longer sedated, the physician should then reevaluate the underlying cause of the patient's behavior and decision-making capacity to determine whether she should be admitted or discharged. Admission is appropriate when imminent harm to one's self or others continues and/or if the patient is uncooperative, intoxicated, or demonstrates psychotic behavior. If the patient is no longer combative, the behavior was a result of intoxication, and medical examination finds no abnormalities, discharge is recommended.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Admit the patient involuntarily** - Involuntary admission is appropriate if the patient poses danger to self or others, is in grave disability (e.g., due to a psychiatric illness), or is in need of acute medical treatment. Although involuntary admission may be appropriate in this case, another step needs to be taken before a decision to admit the patient can be made.

**C - Notify law enforcement authorities** - It is appropriate to notify law enforcement authorities when an individual poses a serious and imminent threat to a person or the public. Although this patient verbally threatened a staff member, no physical harm occurred and she has already been physically restrained and chemically sedated. She does not pose a serious or imminent threat anymore, so it would not be appropriate to notify law enforcement.

**D - Restrain the patient until a court order is obtained** - It is inappropriate and illegal to prolong physical and/or chemical restraint of a patient after the patient has calmed down or sedation has been achieved. Moreover, it is not necessary to obtain a court order to physically restrain and/or chemically sedate a patient that poses an immediate threat of danger to self or others.

