### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - "I would encourage you to speak to your father directly about your concerns, but, if you like, you may broach the subject during the next appointment we all have together."** - Physicians who are responsible for the care of several members of the same family are sometimes confronted with family conflicts. In these situations, physicians must avoid a triangulated relationship by not taking the side of any of the family members, since doing so would compromise at least one physician-patient relationship. The physician should encourage conflict resolution because impaired family relationships can negatively impact health outcomes in each of the family members. If a patient has difficulty voicing their concern to a family member, the physician can offer a space for the two individuals to communicate during a family consultation. A physician should only take sides in the event that one patient is suspected of abusing another.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - "I believe this constitutes a legal dispute. As such, I think you should contact a lawyer."** - The patient's concern for her father's physical and financial wellbeing does not constitute a legal dispute, so this response would not be appropriate.

**C - "I must admit that I agree with your concerns, I will bring this up when I have the next appointment with your father."** - The physician cannot agree with the patient's concerns because by doing so the physician takes sides in a family conflict; the physician must remain neutral. The physician also cannot mention the daughter's concerns in the next appointment with the father, because doing so would breach the obligation of confidentiality to the daughter.

**D - ”I understand you are concerned, but it is your father's right to make such decisions. You should try to support him in his decision.”** - This would not be an appropriate response to the patient's request, because the physician is giving their personal opinion about this family conflict and indirectly blaming this patient for not supporting her father. The physician should attempt to stay neutral and suggest other ways to deal with this family issue.

**E - "I understand you are concerned, but I should not be involved in such family matters, especially if they are not directly related to your father's medical care."** - This response is partially correct, because the physician's involvement in the family conflict is not directed to the patient's medical care. However, this response is not the most appropriate because, besides being neutral, the physician should also provide the patient with some advice on how to deal with the situation.

