### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Decreased variance of door-to-balloon time** - In the context of quality metrics for cardiovascular care of patients with ACS, door-to-balloon-time (D2B time) is a process measure. Standardization increases the reliability of a process and thereby decreases the magnitude of dispersion of process measures (e.g., variance of D2B time) as well as outcome measures (e.g., variance of case fatality rate). The other aspects of the hospital's new policy, such as removal of the forcing function, training, and the use of cognitive aids, would decrease the process measure's central tendency (e.g., mean D2B time) and thereby decrease the magnitude of the outcome measure's central tendency (e.g., mean case fatality rate of ACS).

This scenario also highlights the importance of a systems-based approach to quality improvement (QI) and the need for process validation (e.g., change impact analysis, check balancing measures, failure mode and effects analysis) when implementing a QI strategy in one aspect of a system. The forcing function was implemented in the ED at the behest of the cardiology department before considering the effect of staffing shortfalls in the ED; a forcing function that could prevent the timely performance of a critical step (e.g., cath lab activation) can cause the entire process (e.g., chain of survival) to fail.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Increased lockout period for cath lab activation** - The lockout period is the duration for which a forcing function (a type of HFE strategy) prevents an event from happening. The new hospital policy removes a forcing function (disallowing residents from activating the cath lab), so the lockout period for cath lab activation decreases to zero rather than increases.

**C - Increased case fatality rate of ACS patients** - Two of the most important determinants of case fatality rates of out-of-hospital ACS are the onset-to-door time and the time to initiation of reperfusion therapy; the expertise of the person who activates the cath lab is irrelevant. The new policy implemented by the hospital would be expected to decrease the case fatality rate of admitted ACS patients by removing any bottlenecks in cath lab activation, and to decrease the ED wait time of patients with ACS.

**D - Decreased net workload capacity of ED personnel** - Workload capacity is the amount of cognitive processing power that is available to perform a task. The interventions at the hospital implement a cognitive aid to assist residents and attending physicians in decision-making; cognitive aids decrease the mental workload and increase workload capacity. The intervention further increases the workload capacity of attending physicians by decentralizing decision-making responsibility. Therefore, the interventions would be expected to increase, not decrease, the net workload capacity of ED personnel.

**E - Decreased situational awareness scores among ED physicians** - Situational awareness is an individual's perception of their environment, understanding of its meaning, and ability to predict its possible implications for the future. Any form of personnel training, which was one of the hospital's interventions, would be expected to increase, not decrease, situational awareness and scores on standardized tests for situational awareness.

Image File: 1660-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60bdd29201858.jpg

