### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - No further workup is indicated** - To determine brain death, a physician must first identify evidence of a known cause for irreversible brain damage (e.g., a massive epidural hematoma on imaging) and exclude confounders (e.g., sedative/paralytic use, drug intoxication, severe metabolic derangements, hypotension, hypothermia). The physician must then demonstrate via examination that the patient is comatose, does not have brain-mediated motor responses (e.g., decorticate or decerebrate posturing, facial grimacing) to noxious stimuli applied above and below the neck, has brainstem areflexia, and has a positive apnea test. Finally, the evaluation must be independently repeated by another physician and the findings on reevaluation must be in concordance with the first physician's findings. For children and for patients who received cardiopulmonary resuscitation, an observation period is required before the reevaluation. If all of these criteria are met, brain death can be declared without performing any ancillary testing.

Ancillary testing using a brain blood flow study (e.g., cerebral angiography, cerebral scintigraphy, transcranial Doppler) or an electrophysiological study (e.g., electroencephalography, evoked potentials) is indicated if any of the aforementioned criteria are not met, if any of the steps of the examination cannot be performed or yield inconclusive results, and for children below 1 year of age. If organ procurement from the patient is being considered, none of the physicians involved in determining brain death can be involved in the organ transplantation process or care of the organ recipient.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Somatosensory evoked potentials test** - Measurement of somatosensory evoked potential (SSEP) is an ancillary test to diagnose brain death; absence of SSEPs from both the parietal cortices supports a diagnosis of brain death. This patient does not require SSEP measurement.

**C - Nerve conduction test** - A nerve conduction test is used in the workup of certain brain death mimics, such as severe Guillain-Barre syndrome, but is not used to diagnose brain death from trauma, as seen here.

**D - Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography** - Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography is an ancillary test to diagnose brain death; evidence of high resistance in intracranial blood vessels (e.g., decreased systolic flow velocity with no diastolic blood flow) suggests brain death. This patient does not require transcranial doppler ultrasonography.

**E - Electroencephalography** - Electroencephalography (EEG) is an ancillary test to diagnose brain death; electrocerebral silence on EEG indicates brain death. This patient does not require electroencephalography.

