### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Taking the patient to a vacant room** - The approach to victims of sexual assault in the emergency department differs from other medical emergencies. Physicians must follow a trauma-informed approach to minimize retraumatization by ensuring privacy and obtaining consent for almost every step in management. The patient should be asked if they would like to be brought to a vacant room and whether the door should be left open or closed. Subsequently, consent should be obtained for history taking, physical examination, forensic documentation of the injuries and evidence collection, and reporting to law enforcement authorities. Ideally, patients who have experienced sexual assault should be managed by trained professionals such as sexual assault nurse examiners (SANEs) or sexual assault forensic examiners (SAFEs). In most states, there is no legal obligation for the physician to report sexual crimes in adults without the patient's consent. If the patient wishes to report the crime, a forensic examination will be conducted with a sexual assault forensic evaluation kit to gather and preserve the chain of evidence for law enforcement authorities.

Before leaving the setting of care, all patients should be offered testing for sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and adult patients should be offered empirical prophylaxis against certain STIs. A female patient of the reproductive age group should also be offered pregnancy testing and emergency contraception. In addition, psychological counseling with referrals to sexual assault crisis programs, rape crisis advocates, social workers, and/or psychiatrists (e.g., for trauma-related disorders) should be provided as needed.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Informing law enforcement authorities** - Requesting the patient's permission to report his case to law enforcement authorities may be appropriate at a later point, but it is not the most appropriate action at this time. Sexual assault or abuse of minors must be reported by health care providers (HCPs) to law enforcement or Child Protective Services but, in most states, it is not mandatory for HCPs to report sexual assault of adults to law enforcement authorities.

**C - Providing prophylaxis against sexually transmitted infections** - Empiric prophylaxis against certain STIs (e.g., HIV, gonorrhea, chlamydia, trichomoniasis, HBV vaccination if immunization status is unknown or negative) should be offered to adult patients who have been sexually assaulted, such as this patient, before they leave the setting of care (e.g., emergency department). However, patients who are medically stable should not receive any medications orally or intravenously until forensic samples have been obtained or the patient refuses a forensic examination.

**D - Performing a forensic examination** - A forensic examination should be offered to all patients who have experienced sexual assault and performed only upon obtaining consent. Evidence is collected with sexual assault forensic evaluation kits and samples can be collected up to 72 to 120 hours after the assault. Therefore, a forensic examination can be delayed in this case and would not be the most appropriate initial step in management.

**E - Obtaining pertinent information about the sexual assault** - Obtaining pertinent information about details of the sexual assault (e.g., time, type of sexual assault) is required for patient care and can provide important information for the legal prosecution of the perpetrator in the future. However, a trauma-informed approach should be followed with patients who have undergone sexual assault to minimize retraumatization. With this approach, it is important to find an appropriate setting for information gathering and to limit the number of times the patient has to recount the traumatic experience to different people. Gathering information is not the most pressing concern at this time.

