### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - "I can only release your father's medical records if he requests them himself."** - According to the HIPAA Privacy Rule, patients have the legal right to obtain copies of their medical records. However, a patient's medical records can only be released to another party, such as a family member, if the patient himself provides written or verbal consent to share the information. This is done in order to protect the patient's confidentiality. In accordance with HIPAA, exceptions to the information that can be accessed by a patient include notes taken by a mental health care provider during psychotherapeutic counseling and information gathered in expectation of a probable civil, criminal, or administrative claim or process.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "Can you tell me what the issue is with your father's health insurer?"** - As per the HIPAA Privacy Rule, the physician does not need to know the reason for the request to access medical records in order to make a decision about providing access.

**B - "It is inappropriate for you to handle your father's medical records."** - This response from the physician is inappropriately confrontational and untrue since, as per the HIPAA Privacy Rule, medical records can be disclosed to family members under certain situations. Hence, the physician should inform the daughter about the rules related to disclosing confidential patient records.

**D - "I can release your father's medical records, but they have to be returned to me within the next 30 days.”** - As per the HIPAA Privacy Rule, patients have a legal right to their medical records, and they do not have to return them to the hospital once they receive the records. The HIPAA Privacy Rule, however, places a 30-day time limit within which the medical records should be released by the hospital or physician practice once the request is made.

**E - “I will send a copy of your father's medical records to his home address within the next 30 days.”** - Although the HIPAA Privacy Rule allows for patients to access their medical records, the request should only be granted if the patient himself or an authorized representative makes the request.

