### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - “What have you heard about the use of alprazolam to treat high blood pressure?”** - To respond to this patient's request for a particular medication, the physician should begin an open-ended conversation to explore the patient's knowledge of the drug and thought process for requesting it.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - “I would recommend fluoxetine because alprazolam can cause dependence.”** - Though fluoxetine is associated with lower risk of dependence compared to alprazolam, it would not treat the patient's hypertension.

**B - “I would recommend consultation with a psychiatrist.”** - The physician may ultimately refer the patient for expert consultation but should first explore his understanding of illness and the thought processes that underlie his preferences.

**C - “Anxiety can cause temporary spikes in blood pressure, but it does not cause a long-term increase in blood pressure.”** - The physician should educate the patient about the clinical manifestations and natural history of the disease process. However, the physician should first explore the patient's understanding of illness and the thought processes that underlie his preferences.

**E - “Lisinopril is more effective to treat hypertension. If you do not control your high blood pressure, you may develop a stroke.”** - The physician should educate the patient on the clinical manifestations, natural history, potential complications, and appropriate management of the disease process. However, the physician should first explore the patient's understanding of illness and the thought processes that underlie his preferences.

