### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Storing epinephrine preparations for intramuscular injection in autoinjectors** - This action is an example of a forcing function, which is considered a stronger action according to the action hierarchy of HFE. The storage of 1:1000 preparations of epinephrine (only used in anaphylaxis and for intramuscular injection) in epinephrine autoinjectors guarantees the correct route of administration of this highly concentrated epinephrine preparation. This forcing function would have prevented the medication error that resulted in a lethal complication in this scenario (i.e., a never event) by making it impossible to administer this epinephrine preparation via the intravascular route.

Other examples of forcing functions include design features that only allow one health care record to be open on a computerized physician order entry system to prevent wrong-patient errors and providing different hub fits for intravenous injections of high-risk medications (e.g., opiates) to prevent administration of the wrong drug.

Image File: 1669-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60dc49d4d09cf.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Training medical personnel on the indications for various epinephrine concentrations** - Training medical personnel is useful for preventing knowledge deficiency errors. However, error prevention strategies such as training, double checks, and warnings are considered weaker actions according to the action hierarchy of HFE because they rely strongly on human effort for error mitigation and are subject to workarounds.

**C - Creating separate crash carts for cardiac arrest and anaphylaxis** - Separate crash carts are often used for children and adults because the size of devices and doses of medication differ for pediatric and adult patients. However, when an emergency code is called, the underlying condition causing the patient's symptoms may not be apparent. Moreover, this error prevention strategy is subject to human error (e.g., picking the wrong cart by accident) and workarounds can easily be found. It also unnecessarily increases the use of resources.

**D - Labeling prefilled epinephrine syringes with the correct indication instead of concentration** - This action is an example of a visual cue that could have helped to prevent the medication error in this scenario, since it is easier to distinguish words than concentrations that almost look alike (e.g., 1:1000 can easily be misread as 1:10,000 or vice versa). However, visual cues are considered a weaker to intermediate action according to the action hierarchy of HFE. Moreover, there is more than one indication for 1:10,000 epinephrine (e.g., infusions during septic shock).

**E - Initiating disciplinary action against the healthcare provider who committed the error** - Active errors by healthcare providers, as seen here, are commonly the result of latent errors in the health care system and punitive actions against an individual are more likely to undermine the safety culture of the organization than rectify the underlying issue. Disciplinary actions (e.g., informing the state medical licensing board or firing the physician) should be pursued in the case of gross misconduct, reckless actions, or repeated violations.

**F - Mandating code teams to perform a time-out before epinephrine injections** - Time-outs are an example of standardization and double checks that are commonly used before invasive surgeries to prevent never events (e.g., wrong-site surgery). However, this form of error prevention is not appropriate in an emergency setting, since it unnecessarily delays the onset of medical treatment. Moreover, time-outs are considered a weaker to intermediate action according to the action hierarchy of HFE.

