### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Transfuse packed red blood cells to son but not to father** - In emergency situations, competent adult patients have the right to refuse life-saving treatments. However, this rule does not apply to minor patients. Although the father may refuse a blood transfusion procedure due to his religious views, he cannot refuse it for his 9-year-old son. Although parental consent is preferred for treatment of minors in emergency situations, it is not mandatory.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Consult hospital ethics committee for medical treatment of the son** - Consulting a hospital committee or an ethics board is recommended in situations where the physician and the parent/guardian can not reach a conclusion regarding a treatment in the best interest of the child. However, given this boy's emergency situation and the need for an immediate intervention, consulting the hospital ethics committee would defer care and would, therefore, not be ethically justified.

**C - Seek court order for medical treatment of the son** - Obtaining a court order for the medical treatment of a minor patient is recommended in situations where the physician or the hospital committee and the parent/guardian cannot reach a conclusion regarding a treatment in the best interest of the child. However, given this child's emergent situation and the need for an immediate intervention, seeking a court order would defer care and is not ethically justified.

**D - Transfuse packed red blood cells to both son and father** - In emergent situations, a competent adult patient has the right to refuse life-saving treatments. The father is a competent adult patient and has the right to refuse a blood transfusion procedure due to his faith. Therefore, transfusing him with packed RBCs at this time is not ethically justified.

**E - Wait for the son's mother before providing further treatment** - Although parental consent is required when treating a nonemergency condition in a minor patient, delaying a life-saving intervention in a minor child is not ethically justified. Additionally, in an emergency situation, physicians may disregard parental refusals of a life-saving intervention to their minor child until the situation becomes nonemergent.

**F - Proceed to surgery of the son without transfusion** - This minor patient was involved in a motor vehicle accident and a FAST scan in the emergency department is concerning for multiple organ lacerations and internal bleeding. Given his internal bleeding, he has most likely lost significant blood volume, which may explain his unconscious state. Additionally, the surgery itself carries a risk of blood loss. Therefore, proceeding to surgery without a transfusion may further deteriorate this patient's condition.

