### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Explain that it is not appropriate to prescribe medication to a friend unless in an emergency** - According to the American Medical Association (AMA) Code of Medical Ethics, self-treatment, treatment of immediate family, and treatment of close friends should only occur in emergency situations. An emotional relationship with a patient can interfere with a physician's objective judgment. Their relationship may cause the physician or patient to be uncomfortable obtaining a full history and physical exam (e.g., sexual history and genitourinary exam). It is not appropriate for the physician to provide treatment to their friend in this non-emergency situation. In this case, the physician should politely decline while explaining their concerns and help the friend to find a more appropriate physician.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Suggest that friend use condoms for contraception during their vacation** - Condoms are an alternative form of contraception for this patient. However, physicians should generally avoid making professional consultations to close friends and family because they can be subject to conflict between emotional relationships and objectivity.

**B - Inform the friend that it is never appropriate for a physician to be involved in the treatment of a friend or family member** - Physicians should generally refrain from the treatment of family and friends because professional objectivity can be clouded by emotion. However, this principle does not apply to all situations, such as when emergency treatment is indicated.

**C - Prescribe oral contraceptives if the friend agrees to undergo a proper physical examination** - Whenever possible, a thorough physical examination should be performed before prescribing any medication or initiating any treatment. However, even after a thorough physical examination, it would not be appropriate for a physician to prescribe an elective medication to a friend in this case.

**D - Prescribe oral contraceptives after ruling out that the friend has any contraindications, but emphasize that this is an exception** - Contraindications have to be ruled out before prescribing any medications. However, even after ruling out contraindications, it would not be appropriate for this physician to prescribe elective medication to a friend in this case.

