### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Request the presence of a chaperone** - As part of the patient-physician relationship, physicians should try to create a comfortable environment in order to build trust and fulfill their duty to provide optimal care for their patients. Inappropriate patient behavior can make fulfilling this duty challenging and should be addressed directly. In this scenario, telling the patient that his comment is inappropriate in a polite and direct manner (so as to not undermine the therapeutic alliance) and requesting the presence of a chaperone (i.e., an authorized member of the care team, who can act as an impartial observer and witness) can help create an environment in which all parties feel comfortable and respected. Family members and other close contacts are not appropriate chaperones. Additional strategies to prevent inappropriate behavior include asking direct, close-ended questions and performing only medically necessary portions of the examination to minimize contact.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Report the incident to law enforcement authorities** - Inappropriate comments from patients are not an indication for notifying law enforcement authorities. Situations in which a physician must provide law enforcement authorities with patient information include suspected cases of injury caused by a criminal act and the abuse of children, elderly people, or people with disabilities.

**B - Transfer the care of the patient to a male physician** - Transferring the care of the patient to a male physician does not address this patient's inappropriate behavior. While it may be reasonable for the original physician to terminate the patient-physician relationship and transfer the patient's care if he continues to behave inappropriately, a more appropriate initial step is to attempt to address the behavior itself.

**C - Call the patient's partner back into the room** - As part of the patient-physician relationship, physicians should try to create a comfortable environment in order to build trust and provide optimal care for their patients. This patient has requested that his wife is not present during the examination, and his request should be respected in order to maintain trust.

**E - Use humor to diffuse the situation** - Physicians may choose to use humor in the clinical setting to cultivate the patient-physician relationship. However, using humor to diffuse the situation in this scenario would downplay the seriousness of the patient's inappropriate behavior.

