### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Penicillin V, 500 mg, orally, twice a day, for 10 days** - This prescription is written in precise, simple, and common language and is, therefore, least likely to result in a medication error. First, the drug is named specifically (“Penicillin V”). Second, the dosage (“500 mg”) describes the drug strength in clearly defined units and does not contain trailing zeros. Third, the route (“orally”), frequency (“twice a day”), and duration (“for 10 days”) of administration are all written in plain English; Latin, abbreviations, and acronyms should be avoided because they can be misinterpreted. In addition, it is recommended to indicate the reason for the medication on the prescription, as this introduces an additional safety checkpoint and opportunity for counseling for pharmacists and collaborating providers, and reminds the patient of the drug's purpose. Other instructions typically provided on prescriptions include the number of medication units to be dispensed and the number of refills permitted before the patient's next follow-up.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Pen-V, 500.00 mg, orally, twice a day, as directed** - In general, it is recommended to use generic (e.g., “Penicillin V”) rather than commercial drug names (e.g., “Pen-V”) on prescriptions to avoid conflicts of interest and decrease the risk of confusing similar-sounding medications. Furthermore, the use of vague statements such as “as directed” should be avoided. The use of trailing zeros as in “500.00 mg” should be avoided because the dosage can be easily misread (e.g., 50000 mg), which can result in serious adverse events.

**C - Penicillin, 500 mg, PO, BID, for 10 days** - Drugs should be identified as specifically as possible; this prescription does not specify which type of penicillin is being prescribed. Furthermore, the use of Latin and acronyms such as “PO” (per os, which means by mouth) or “BID” (bis in die, which means twice a day) should be avoided.

**D - Penicillin V, 25 mg/kg, orally, twice a day, as directed** - Although pediatric dosages can be written using the units “mg/kg,” the use of vague statements such as “as directed” should be avoided.

**E - Penicillin V, 25.0 mg/kg, orally, b.d.s., for 10 days** - The use of trailing zeros as in “25.0 mg/kg” should be avoided because the dosage can be easily misread (e.g., 250 mg/kg), which can result in serious adverse events. Moreover, the use of Latin and acronyms such as “b.d.s” (bis die sumendum, which means twice a day) is discouraged.

