### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Minimizing patient sedation** - Sedatives are used in mechanically ventilated patients to relieve discomfort and anxiety and, if a spontaneous ventilatory mode is unavailable, to prevent complications arising from patient-ventilator asynchrony. However, excessive sedation impairs the patient's airway protective reflexes and allows oropharyngeal secretions or gastric reflux to pass beyond the glottis. In intubated patients, these collections can pool in the subglottic region and drain around the endotracheal tube cuff, as microaspirates, into the lower respiratory tract. Using sedation assessment tools and daily titration of the patient's depth of sedation to the minimum necessary level (sedation vacation) can prevent the subglottic pooling of secretions and subsequent VAP. Sedation vacations also prevent VAP by facilitating spontaneous breathing trials and early ventilator weaning.

VAP can also be prevented by measures that decrease oropharyngeal or gastrointestinal bacterial colonization (e.g., oral chlorhexidine rinses, avoiding unnecessary acid suppression therapy), decrease subglottic pooling (e.g., oropharyngeal and subglottic suctioning, semirecumbent positioning of the patient), and decrease the risk of microaspiration (e.g., minimizing patient transport, avoiding frequent ventilator circuit changes for the same patient).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Avoiding routine oropharyngeal suctioning** - Routine oropharyngeal and subglottic suctioning prevents the pooling of secretions above the endotracheal tube cuff. Avoiding routine oropharyngeal suctioning would increase rather than decrease the risk of VAP.

**B - Changing the ventilator circuit daily** - Biofilms of bacteria can adhere to the ventilator circuit and lead to VAP. Therefore, a change in the ventilator circuit is recommended if it is visibly soiled, malfunctioning, or if a new patient is ventilated. However, frequent changes of the ventilator circuit for the same patient increase rather than decrease the risk of VAP because manipulation of the ventilator circuit increases the risk of microaspiration of subglottic secretions.

**D - Avoiding overinflation of the endotracheal tube cuff** - Adequate inflation of the endotracheal tube cuff (to a pressure of 20–30 mm H2O) is required to minimize the risk of VAP. While avoiding overinflation of the endotracheal tube cuff prevents airway injury (e.g., ischemia, ulceration, and necrosis of the tracheal wall) it does not prevent VAP.

**E - Starting proton pump inhibitor therapy early** - Acid suppression (e.g., proton pump inhibitor) therapy is used for stress ulcer prophylaxis in critically ill patients with certain risk factors (e.g., traumatic brain injury, prolonged mechanical ventilation or stay in intensive care unit). However, acid suppression also promotes bacterial colonization of the gastrointestinal tract, which increases rather than decreases the risk of VAP.

