### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Increase her pain medication dose** - The most appropriate action from the physician at this time is to optimize the patient's pain control regimen. This patient is requesting physician-assisted death, which is illegal in the majority of states and highly regulated in the jurisdictions that allow it. Her pain is not well controlled and adequate analgesia may change her wish to die.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Submit a referral to psychiatry** - Depression and/or anxiety are common in terminally ill patients and should be evaluated for every patient. However, this patient's primary concern is somatic pain. If the physician had good reason to believe that depression and/or anxiety were primary components of this patient's pain, a referral to psychiatry would be a good option.

**B - Submit a referral to hospice care** - A referral to hospice care can be submitted if this patient is deemed to have less than 6 months to live. However, this patient has asked her physician for assistance with ending her life, and this concern should be addressed by other actions prior to referring to hospice.

**C - Consult with the local ethics committee** - Consulting an ethics committee can be helpful in cases where a patient lacks capacity to make decisions pertaining to his or her medical care or when there are disputes between surrogate decision makers (or medical power of attorney). Since this patient does not lack decision-making capacity, other steps should be taken to address her request.

**E - Initiate authorization of physician-assisted death** - Physician-assisted death is illegal in the majority of states in the US and highly regulated in those where it is legal. Although this patient is requesting assistance to end her life, her wish may change as the physician addresses her primary concern.

