### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - "I understand your concern, but I am unable to provide information about this situation."** - This response demonstrates empathy for the physician colleague's concern and preserves the privacy of the patient in accordance with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. Permission to disclose information can be obtained from the patient privately at a separate time. Alternatively, the patient can assume the responsibility of updating her friend with the information she chooses to share.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "You can find the information in the electronic medical record."** - Viewing a patient's medical record for reasons unrelated to direct medical care violates the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and is never appropriate.

**B - "Why don't you go ahead and ask her directly? She is currently in the psychiatric ward."** - Though this response encourages direct communication between the patient and her friend, it violates her privacy because it confirms that she is a patient at the hospital and discloses the nature of her medical care.

**C - "Her urine toxicology screening was positive for alcohol, benzodiazepines, and barbiturates."** - Verbal or written consent from the patient is required before releasing information to any individuals who are not directly involved in her medical care, including the physician colleague. Sharing information at this time is a violation of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.

**D - "I'm not the right person to ask. Please ask her primary care physician."** - This response avoids the physician colleague's concern. Moreover, there is no indication that the primary care physician has permission to disclose information about the patient.

**F - "Let's go to my office to discuss her situation privately."** - Patient information should not be discussed in a public area (e.g., the hospital lobby). However, verbal or written consent from the patient is required before releasing information to any individuals who are not directly involved in her medical care, including the physician colleague. Sharing information at this time is a violation of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.

