### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Active error** - This physician has committed an active error by ordering the drug for the wrong patient. Active errors (sharp end flaws) occur at the level of contact between the healthcare provider and aspects of the health care system (e.g., patient, health records), are generally readily apparent, and usually have an immediate impact. Skills-based errors such as a slip (which occurred in this scenario) and a lapse are the most common types of active errors. This class of active errors can be prevented by implementing standardized protocols (e.g., implementing a SAFER checklist), organizational changes that minimize stress and fatigue (e.g., having float staff), and implementing forcing functions that minimize distractions (e.g., computerized provider order entry systems that allow only one electronic health record to be open at a time and medication orders to be entered only in a designated distraction-free zone). Such measures would simultaneously address the underlying latent errors that predispose to active errors.

Other terms that are applicable to describe the physician's action in this scenario are medication error (specifically at the stages of ordering and transcribing), patient identification error, near miss, medical negligence, and a nonreviewable sentinel event. Near misses are errors that expose the patient to potential harm but do not do so because of either a timely intervention (e.g., the nurse identifies that a doctor's order is for the wrong patient) or luck (as in this case, in which the patient did not experience any adverse effect from ketorolac). Any intervention on a wrong patient is a sentinel event, which necessitates a root cause analysis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Blunt end flaw** - Blunt end flaws (latent errors) remain unnoticed, have delayed impacts, and are the result of system design or organizational failures. Blunt end flaws are often the underlying cause of the type of event that occurred in this scenario, but this physician's action did not remain unnoticed and had an immediate impact, so it was not a blunt end flaw.

**B - Ameliorable adverse event** - The patient did not experience any harm (e.g., prolonged hospital stay, side effects) from the administration of ketorolac, so neither the term adverse event nor its descriptors (e.g., nonpreventable, ameliorable, preventable) apply to the physician's action. The term preventable adverse event would apply if the patient had experienced harm from the inadvertent administration of ketorolac.

**C - Alert fatigue** - Alert fatigue refers to the phenomenon in which health care providers become desensitized to alarms or alerts that occur excessively or inappropriately and subsequently ignore or fail to respond appropriately to the alarm/alert. In this scenario, the physician did not ignore or miss an alarm or alert.

**D - Medical malpractice** - Medical malpractice, which is legally determined in a court of law, occurs when the following four criteria are met: A patient-physician relationship exists (duty), the physician acted negligently (dereliction of duty), the patient suffered harm (damages), and the patient's harm was the result of the physician's negligence (direct causation). In this case, only the first two of the four criteria are met (i.e., duty and dereliction of duty).

