### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Obtain authorization from the patient to release information** - All information about a patient's health, even his location in the hospital, is confidential and must not be shared with anyone outside of the patient's direct health care team without explicit consent. If the patient were unconscious or otherwise incapacitated and someone was able to identify him by name, it may be acceptable to tell this person the patient's location and general health status. However, this patient is most likely able to give his consent and must be consulted before any information about him is shared.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Inform the wife about her husband's condition** - All information about a patient's health is confidential and must not be shared with anyone outside of his direct health care team, even the patient's spouse or other family members, without his explicit consent. In an emergency situation or when the patient is incapacitated, it is appropriate to disclose information about a patient's general health status and location in the health care facility for anyone who asks for them by name; however, information about a patient's condition should not be shared without consent.

**C - Consult the hospital ethics committee** - A hospital ethics committee consult is a useful step in the management of patients who lack decision-making capacity if there is conflict among family members or surrogates regarding goals of care. There is no indication that this patient cannot make decisions about his health care.

**D - Request the patient's durable power of attorney document** - A durable power of attorney for health care is a legal document that grants a surrogate the right to make medical decisions on behalf of a patient should the patient become incapacitated. There is no indication that this patient cannot make decisions about his health care. Furthermore, power of attorney documents do not by themselves allow access to confidential patient information without a specific clause granting such access to surrogate decision makers.

**E - Ask the wife for a marriage certificate** - Proof that the woman is the patient's wife does not give her a right to access the patient's confidential information without his consent.

