### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Increasing close peers' awareness of asthma** - Increasing the awareness of asthma among this patient's close peers is likely to strengthen her adherence to therapy. With the onset of adolescence, relations with peers become a critical factor in treatment adherence in individuals with chronic illnesses (e.g., asthma, type 1 diabetes mellitus). The feeling of “not being normal,” a general desire for freedom and independence from adults, as well as fear of stigmatization due to disease increase the risk of nonadherence. Therefore, conveying social acceptance of the illness through peers (e.g., by teaching classmates about the illness, encouraging adolescents to take medication in front of peers, peer-to-peer online health communities) is an effective behavioral intervention to improve adherence in adolescents.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Involving a school social worker to assist in inhaler use** - Involving a school social worker to assist in inhaler use is a strategy to prevent incorrect medication use and improve treatment adherence in children with cognitive deficits. This patient, however, understands medication use, as confirmed by the teach-back method and the fact that her symptoms were well controlled until recently. Moreover, the involvement of a school social worker might worsen the fear of ostracization.

**B - Using a phone-based application that reminds the patient to use the inhaler** - Phone-based applications that remind patients to use their inhaler can help to prevent nonadherence due to forgetfulness. Forgetting to take medicine (e.g., due to activities) is an important cause of treatment nonadherence in adolescents, and phone-based interventions have a good acceptance amongst this age group. However, the efficacy of these mobile phone applications in improving treatment adherence in adolescents has not yet been proven.

**C - Completing a transfer of care from a pediatric to adult care provider** - A structured and staged transition process from pediatric to adult care, which should ideally begin in early adolescence and be completed in early adulthood, may decrease the risk of medication nonadherence in young adults. However, completion of the transfer of care to an adult care provider earlier than scheduled because of low medication adherence would interrupt this patient’s ongoing therapeutic relationship with her pediatrician and might further decrease adherence.

**D - Providing the patient with a visual medication schedule** - Visual medication schedules can help to prevent medication errors and strengthen treatment adherence in patients with low literacy levels. This patient, however, understands medication use, as confirmed by the teach-back method and the fact that her symptoms were well controlled until recently. A visual medication schedule is, therefore, unlikely to improve her adherence to therapy.

