### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Discuss the goals of treatment with the parents** - In a pediatric setting, parents/legal guardians are the legal medical decision-makers and should be given full information regarding the diagnosis, treatment options and goals, and prognosis with and without therapy. They should also be involved in and encouraged to discuss all aspects of care (i.e., physical, psychosocial, spiritual). This should also apply in a palliative setting, where the goal is to relieve suffering and provide the best possible quality of life. Parental consent must be obtained before proceeding with any medical procedure (e.g., placement of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt) or treatment decision (e.g., transfer to hospice care). Disclosure to the child should be adapted according to age and developmental level.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Recommend enrolling the child in a clinical trial** - Enrollment in a clinical trial may be recommended to this pediatric patient with a terminal medulloblastoma. The requirements for the protection of vulnerable populations are fulfilled: This patient has a terminal condition with no other treatment options available; medulloblastomas specifically affect pediatric patients and research cannot be conducted in comparable adult groups. Although this patient would be eligible for clinical research, another aspect of palliative care should be addressed before enrollment in a clinical trial can be discussed.

**C - Recommend transferring the child to inpatient hospice care** - Inpatient hospice care is a palliative care option for pediatric patients with a terminal disease. This patient with an advanced, unresectable tumor, worsening symptoms, and poor prognosis would be eligible for hospice care. However, another aspect of palliative care should be addressed before hospice care can be recommended. Additionally, the decision-makers should be offered the choice between hospice services at home and in an inpatient setting.

**D - Discuss the prognosis with the child** - Disclosure to a pediatric patient is essential for building a trusting therapeutic relationship. The decision of whether and how to explain the prognosis to a pediatric patient is highly individual and depends on the patient's cognitive development. Although preschoolers (< 6 years of age) are often unable to conceptualize death, it is important to help them understand their situation by giving simple and concrete information and with the help of trained specialists and creative approaches (e.g., music therapy, puppets). As children become more mature, their understanding of death develops and it may be appropriate for them to participate in medical decisions. Although this patient may benefit from disclosure about the prognosis of his condition, another aspect of palliative care should be addressed at this point.

**E - Recommend the placement of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt** - A ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt can be used to provide symptomatic relief in patients with hydrocephalus. This patient presents with features of increased intracranial pressure (headaches, nausea, vomiting) most likely caused by obstructive hydrocephalus due to medulloblastoma. However, another aspect of palliative care should be addressed before any medical procedure (e.g., VP shunt placement) is initiated.

