### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Interview the patient and mother separately** - This child shows signs of sexual abuse. Since most children experiencing sexual abuse do not present with overt physical findings, a well-documented patient interview is often the most important piece of evidence. Interviewing the patient and mother separately allows for a neutral and honest conversation between the child and physician. At age 9 to 12 years, this girl is in the prime group at risk for sexual abuse. In over 90% of cases, the perpetrator is somebody known to the child or family. Behavioral changes that should raise concern for sexual abuse include sexual acting out or sexual insights that are inconsistent with age, problems at school, aggression, regression, eating or sleep disturbances, and depression. Medical conditions that should raise concern for sexual abuse include sexually transmitted infections (STIs), pregnancies, recurrent urinary tract infections, anogenital or oral trauma, encopresis, and enuresis. In general, the threshold for investigating any suspected case of child abuse should be very low. The basic medical interview is followed by a gentle physical examination, including a test for STIs. Subsequently, the physician must notify child protective services (CPS) to ensure further investigation of the case (including a thorough forensic interview) and the safety of the child.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Reassure the mother and follow up with the patient** - Reassuring the mother and following up with the patient is indicated in primary enuresis (the patient never achieved continence) up to 5 years of age whereas this patient has new-onset secondary enuresis (the patient previously achieved continence) at 9 years of age, which requires further workup. However, this girl's additional behavioral changes and physical findings raise concern for something else that needs to be ruled out before her enuresis is assessed further.

**C - Recommend scheduled voiding and fluid restriction at night** - Scheduled voiding and fluid restriction at night are indicated as first-line therapy for nocturnal enuresis that is not caused by another medical condition in children older than 5 years of age. However, this girl's additional behavioral changes and physical findings raise concern for something else that needs to be ruled out before her enuresis is assessed further.

**D - Contact hospital social workers** - Hospital social work services support patients and their families to cope with difficult situations, including suspected child maltreatment. While involving social workers may be warranted at a later point, another step in management is more urgently indicated.

**E - Perform a urine dipstick test and measure serum glucose** - Performing a urine dipstick test and measuring serum glucose is indicated for ruling out type 1 diabetes. Secondary enuresis and nocturia, both of which are seen here, may occur in children with type 1 diabetes. However, this girl's additional behavioral changes and physical findings raise concern for something else that needs to be ruled out before she is assessed for type 1 diabetes.

**F - Recommend desmopressin therapy** - Desmopressin therapy is indicated as second-line therapy for nocturnal enuresis that is not caused by another medical condition in children older than 5 years of age. This patient's additional behavioral changes and physical findings, however, raise concern for something else that needs to be ruled out before her enuresis is assessed further.

