### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Notify law enforcement authorities** - This patient says that he bought the gun for protection and will only use it if his neighbor invades his property, which is within his legal rights. The patient has not expressed homicidal ideation, there is no immediate threat to the neighbor's life. Nevertheless, law enforcement authorities should be informed so that they can warn the neighbor of the potential risk of going near the patient's house. Most states have passed “Duty to Protect” laws, which allow health care professionals to breach patient confidentiality if they think there is potential harm to the patient or others. These laws require the health care professional to evaluate aspects such as the identity of the victim, imminence and certainty of the harm, and type of harm (e.g., physical harm, death) before making a decision to breach patient confidentiality.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer haloperidol and request a psychiatric consultation** - Immediate administration of the antipsychotic haloperidol is an appropriate step if a patient is highly agitated. This patient, however, is calm and does not require such treatment. Long-term therapy with atypical antipsychotics should be considered because the patient most likely has schizophrenia, but the imminent threat of violence and stated access to firearms requires a different response from the doctor.

**B - Discuss the management plan with the patient's mother** - Disclosing information of a competent adult patient to a third person generally constitutes a breach in patient confidentiality, which is only warranted under exceptional circumstances. Discussing the diagnosis and therapy plan with the patient's mother does not arise out of a necessity that requires overriding patient confidentiality.

**C - Inform hospital security and detain the patient** - Informing hospital security and detaining the patient is appropriate if the patient has homicidal ideation or plans to cause harm to another individual. This patient declared that he intends to use the gun to protect his house, which is still within his legal boundaries. Currently, he does not pose an immediate threat that would warrant having him detained by hospital security.

**E - Request a court order to override the patient's right to confidentiality** - Requesting a court order to breach the patient's right to confidentiality is not a procedure conducted by physicians. Such a request would delay the immediate actions required of the physician to ensure the safety of threatened individuals.

