### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - "Would it be possible for you to step out for a few moments so that I can interview your daughter alone?"** - Teenagers should always be given an opportunity to talk to their physician in private, as this acknowledges their privacy and growing independence. They might also open up and discuss issues that they would not be comfortable talking about in the presence of their parents (e.g., sexual issues, drug use). On the other hand, it is also important to address the parents' concerns and ask them politely to leave the examination room.

Parental consent is required before a minor (< 18 years) who is not legally emancipated can receive medical care (e.g., surgery, medication), with the exception of care pertaining to sexual health (contraception, pregnancy care, or STIs) or addiction.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "What do you think of your mother's version of events? How does it make you feel?"** - The daughter's feelings should be explored and discussed, which means this question is not entirely out of line. However, it is important to address teenagers' privacy and growing independence and asking this question in the presence of the mother fails to address that.

**B - "I am very concerned that your daughter is displaying signs of depression, and I'd suggest that she is seen by a psychiatrist."** - Although depression should be considered in this patient, who shows mild signs of it (e.g., poor diet and hygiene, indifference), this response would be premature, since the daughter's feeling and concerns have not yet been explored adequately.

**C - "Let's run a routine urine toxicology screen to make sure your daughter is not doing drugs."** - While drug use might be suspected in this patient, it would be most appropriate to first create a setting in which the daughter can explore her feelings and discuss issues more comfortably. This response fails to acknowledge the daughter's autonomy and growing independence.

**E - "I sympathize with you, but I'm afraid if you want to change your daughter's behavior you would have to change her peer group."** - Although this response is empathetic and reflects a principle of social psychology that might hold true in this case, it fails to acknowledge this patient's growing independence and autonomy.

**F - "Your daughter displays normal signs of puberty. Being overly critical of your daughter is not helpful."** - Although this statement might be true, it fails to address the mother's concerns and communicate empathy. This type of response fosters a one-sided patient-physician relationship and may cause the parent to feel as if she is not being listened to.

