### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Alert fatigue** - Alert fatigue is the phenomenon of clinician desensitization to alarms. Although computerized alerts were created to improve patient safety, the high number of alarms encountered has led healthcare personnel to become desensitized to such warnings. This desensitization is worsened by the high proportion of alarms that are clinically inconsequential. As a result, physicians often ignore these warnings or do not react appropriately. In turn, as physicians start to ignore both meaningless and critical alarms, there are negative implications for patient safety because medical errors occur, like the one seen here where the physician ignored a computerized clinical alarm regarding a drug interaction.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Adverse drug reaction** - An adverse drug reaction is an unintended and unpreventable drug event that occurs even though medication is administered appropriately. This patient, however, experienced a preventable drug interaction as a result of a medical error.

**B - Physician burnout** - Physician burnout is a reaction to occupational stressors, and it can cause medical errors. Symptoms include detachment, emotional exhaustion, and a decreased sense of accomplishment at work, none of which are seen here. Moreover, the physician has told colleagues that he finds his job fulfilling.

**C - Latent condition** - Latent conditions (or latent errors) are usually caused by system design or organizational issues, none of which are seen here. Moreover, in this case, the medical error seems to be an active error because it is the result of direct contact between the physician and an aspect of the system, with an immediate impact on the patient.

**E - Hindsight bias** - Hindsight bias, in the context of safety analysis, is the tendency to judge events that led to an outcome as having been more predictable than they actually were. In this case, the physician did not make a decision based on events that, at the time, could have been perceived as leading to a negative outcome.

