### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Maintain a record of therapeutic drug monitoring tests with pending results.** - Standardization of protocols for the follow-up of certain test results (e.g., maintaining a record of therapeutic drug monitoring tests with pending results) can help prevent medical errors that occur as a result of a delay in follow-up by the physician.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Instruct the office front staff to label all abnormal test results as "urgent."** - Critical test results, which require an immediate review by a physician (e.g., high PT/INR, derangements in potassium levels), can be labeled as “urgent” in order to bring these results sooner to the attention of the caregiver and thereby help prevent a delay in follow-up, which occurred here. However, this measure can only be implemented successfully by trained personnel (e.g., physicians, laboratory technicians, nurses); office front staff are not trained to identify critical test results; if they are instructed to label all abnormal test results as “urgent,” alert fatigue can occur and cause the physician to ignore the “urgent” label.

**B - Provide the patient with a visual medication schedule for warfarin use.** - The use of a visual medication schedule (VMS) for patients receiving warfarin has been shown to decrease the time needed to reach an optimal PT/INR level. However, a VMS is used to prevent communication errors (e.g., patient-physician discordance) and improve patient compliance rather than to prevent an error caused by a delay in follow-up, which occurred in this case.

**D - Ask the patient to sign up for online access to her diagnostic test results.** - The involvement of the patient in safety efforts can act as a check to prevent medical errors (multilayered safety system of a swiss cheese model); an online portal that provides patients access to their test results can reduce the risk of a delay in follow-up because patients are likely to contact their physician in the case of an abnormal result. However, several patient-related factors (e.g., lack of internet access, low literacy level, low motivation, inability to interpret test results), and design-related factors (e.g., poor ease-of-use) can limit the usefulness of these portals. Moreover, this step does not address the physician's responsibility to follow-up the patient's results in a timely manner and lays this responsibility squarely on the patient.

**E - Administer an initial bridging therapy with low-molecular-weight heparin.** - Initial bridging therapy with low-molecular-weight heparin is used to prevent thromboembolic events associated with the initiation of warfarin (e.g., warfarin-induced skin necrosis) rather than to prevent bleeding, which occurred in this patient.

