### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Seek permission from the primary attending surgeon to assist in the procedure** - Although there is no federal law that prohibits physicians from treating or performing surgery on family members, the American Medical Association clearly advises against it because doing so raises ethical issues of professional objectivity, patient confidentiality, and personal feelings that may cloud judgment. Exceptions to this recommendation include medical emergencies in which no other qualified physician is present and treatment of minor conditions. In this scenario, the patient explicitly asks for his son to perform surgery on him. By asking the primary attending surgeon if he may assist in the procedure, his son respects patient autonomy by honoring his father's preferences and avoids being the primary decision-maker.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform the surgery as the primary attending surgeon** - Although there is no federal law that prohibits physicians from treating or performing surgery on family members, the American Medical Association clearly advises against it because doing so raises ethical issues of professional objectivity, patient confidentiality, and personal feelings that may cloud judgment. Exceptions to this recommendation include medical emergencies in which no other qualified physician is present and treatment of minor conditions. However, in this scenario, another trained specialist is available.

**B - Offer to manage the postoperative care of the patient** - Although there is no federal law that prohibits physicians from treating or performing surgery on family members, the American Medical Association clearly advises against it because doing so raises ethical issues of professional objectivity, patient confidentiality, and personal feelings that may cloud judgment. In this scenario, the patient explicitly asks for his son to perform surgery on him. Offering to manage the patient's postoperative care does not address his preferences. In addition, managing the patient's postoperative care places the son in the position of serving as the primary decision-maker in the patient's care, raising the aforementioned ethical issues.

**C - Recommend a transfer of care to a different hospital** - Transferring the patient to a different hospital would unnecessarily delay treatment and not pay respect to the patient's preferences.

**E - Inform the patient that it is illegal to perform surgery on a family member** - Although there is no federal law that prohibits physicians from treating or performing surgery on family members, the American Medical Association clearly advises against it because doing so raises ethical issues of professional objectivity, patient confidentiality, and personal feelings that may cloud judgment. Informing the patient that it is illegal to perform surgery on a family member is inaccurate, potentially deceptive, and does not respect the patient's preferences.

