### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Capitation** - Capitation is a health care payment model in which health care providers receive a specified amount of compensation per patient during each payment period, regardless of the actual amount of health care utilized by the patient. Capitation incentivizes health care providers to promote efficient use of health care resources (e.g., cost-effective preventive health care to avoid larger downstream costs) but also carries the risk that patients will be undertreated because compensation is not based on the quantity or quality of services provided.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Per diem payment** - In a per diem payment model, a health care organization is compensated a fixed amount per patient per day for a specific care service provided, regardless of the actual costs involved for providing services for any particular patient. This payment model is often used for reimbursement of inpatient services. For example, a hospital and payer can negotiate a fixed per diem rate for most routine inpatient services (e.g., common medical and surgical conditions) based on the average daily cost of admission. This model does not reflect the scenario described, in which health care providers receive a fixed amount for each patient enrolled over a specific period of time, regardless of whether or not services are provided.

**B - Bundled payment** - In a bundled payment model, a health care organization is compensated a fixed amount for all services provided for a clinically-defined episode of care (e.g., hip replacement, cholecystectomy). Payment is then distributed to the health care providers. This payment model encourages cost-effective provision of care but also carries the risk that patients will be undertreated because compensation does not rely on the quantity or quality of services provided for each clinically-defined episode of care. For example, physicians may be pressured to prematurely discharge patients from the hospital because the compensation received for each admission does not increase with prolonged duration of hospital stay. This model does not reflect the scenario described, in which health care providers receive a fixed amount for each patient enrolled over a specific period of time, regardless of whether or not services are provided.

**C - Fee-for-service** - In a fee-for-service payment model, health care providers are compensated for each individual service provided (e.g., individual laboratory tests, imaging studies, and procedures). They are not paid a fixed amount for each patient enrolled over a specific period of time, regardless of the amount of care provided, as described in this case. A fee-for-service payment model carries the risk that patients will be overtreated because compensation is based on the quantity of services provided.

**D - Discounted fee-for-service** - In a discounted fee-for-service payment model, health care providers are compensated for each individual service provided (e.g., individual laboratory tests, imaging studies, and procedures) based on a fixed payment schedule negotiated between the health care providers and the payers. They are not paid a fixed amount for each patient enrolled over a specific period of time, regardless of the amount of care provided, as described in this case. Preferred provider organizations often use a discounted fee-for-service payment model. As in a traditional fee-for-service payment model, a discounted fee-for-service payment model carries the risk that patients will be overtreated because compensation is based on the quantity of services provided. However, because discounted prices are predetermined by negotiations between health care providers and payers, the financial incentive to provide excess care is decreased.

