### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Report the infection to the national health authorities** - Physicians are obligated to report communicable diseases to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention through the National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System and the physician may breach patient confidentiality for this purpose. The patient should be encouraged to share the results with his wife directly; physician partner-notification laws vary from state to state and the local health department should be consulted in cases of uncertainty.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Inform the wife immediately of the positive result** - This patient should be encouraged to share his HIV status with his sexual and/or needle-sharing partners directly, and immediately. Laws on notification of sexual or needle-sharing partners by the physician vary from state to state. In accordance with HIPAA laws, the local health department should be consulted before breaching patient confidentiality.

**C - Schedule a group meeting with the patient and wife to disclose the results** - Supporting group meetings are in adherence with the patient-centered model for clinical practices. However, this patient should be encouraged to disclose his HIV status to his sexual and/or needle-sharing partners directly and immediately. If additional support is required, a group meeting may be offered at a later point in time.

**D - Offer the patient repeat antibody testing to confirm results** - Fourth-generation HIV tests, which consist of both HIV antibody and HIV p24 antigen testing, are highly sensitive and specific for chronic HIV infection. While this method of testing may fail to identify early infection (e.g., false negative), a false positive result is very unlikely and offering repeat antibody testing would not be helpful. If confirmation is desired, a differentiation assay (Western blot) or plasma HIV RNA level would be most appropriate.

**E - Wait for one week before you disclose the results to his wife** - This patient should be encouraged to share his HIV status with his sexual and/or needle-sharing partners directly and immediately. Laws regarding the notification of sexual or needle-sharing partners vary from state to state. In accordance with HIPPA laws, the local health department should be consulted before breaching patient confidentiality.

