### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - “I understand that you need your car to stay mobile, but without an official evaluation of your driving capacity, you should not be driving anywhere.”** - Irrespective of state laws, if a physician believes that a patient cannot drive safely, the physician must share their concerns with the patient and ask them to stop driving until they have been evaluated and treated by a driver rehabilitation specialist. Alternatively, the patient can be recleared for driving by the state licensing authority (e.g., Department of Motor Vehicles). However, the laws for reporting impaired drivers differ between states.

Most states have voluntary reporting laws, under which a physician is not required to disclose a patient's driving impairment to the state licensing authority but are protected from a breach of patient confidentiality if they do so. Some states have mandatory reporting laws, which require physicians to report any patient with driving impairment to the state licensing authority. In states with voluntary or mandatory reporting laws, the physician can be held liable for a motor vehicle accident involving the impaired driver if the physician does not report the driving impairment. A few states do not have any reporting laws and require the physician to obtain the patient's consent before disclosing driving impairment to the authorities. In these states, the physician cannot be held liable for a motor vehicle accident involving the impaired driver if the physician does not have consent to disclose driver impairment.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "You should not feel that you are a burden on your son. I'm sure he will be happy to drive you."** - A physician should encourage patients to communicate with their family members and seek help when necessary. However, it is inappropriate for the physician to presume that the patient's son would be willing to drive for the patient. The physician should instead explore the patient's reasons for feeling like a burden on his son, rather than simply instructing him not to feel this way. Moreover, in this case, it is critical to inform the patient that his current condition impairs his ability to drive safely; a different reaction would, therefore, be appropriate.

**C - "I have a duty to public safety and unfortunately, I must inform the police that you are still driving."** - In states with mandatory reporting laws, the physician has an obligation to report patients with conditions that impair driving ability. However, the state licensing authority (e.g., Department of Motor Vehicles) rather than the police should be informed in this scenario. The physician needs to inform the police only if the patient divulges a criminal act to the physician (e.g., hit-and-run, alcohol-related car accident).

**D - "I would advise you to stop driving, but I cannot tell you what to do. Just be aware that it is solely your responsibility if something bad happens."** - When the patient has a condition that limits their ability to drive safely, the physician must advise the patient to stop driving. However, in most states, if the patient continues to drive against medical advice and the physician does not report the patient to state licensing authorities, the physician can also be held liable for injuries that occur from a motor vehicle accident involving the patient.

**E - "I understand this is a difficult situation for you, but I have to ask you to surrender your driver's license now."** - The physician cannot ask a patient to surrender their driver's license. The state licensing authorities (e.g., Department of Motor Vehicles) rather than a physician should determine the patient's inability to drive safely.

