### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Never event** - Never events are adverse events that are unambiguous, serious, and usually preventable. Unintentionally leaving a foreign object (e.g., surgical instrument) in a patient's body following surgical intervention, as seen here, is a never event. Additional examples include wrong-site surgery, patient death/serious injury due to contaminated drugs/devices/biologics supplied by a health care facility, patient suicide during hospitalization, and patient death/serious injury due to administration of the wrong medication.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Adverse event** - Adverse events are unintended consequences of medical management that are not related to a patient's underlying disease. Retention of a foreign object in a patient after surgery can be considered an adverse event; however, since this adverse event is serious, preventable, and clearly identifiable, there is a more specific term for it.

**C - Near miss** - A near miss (close call) is a type of unintended medical error that could have resulted in an adverse event. Unlike in this case, in a near miss, a timely intervention prevents patient harm.

**D - Systems error** - Systems errors are medical errors resulting from a series of actions and/or factors (e.g., work environment and conditions, technical and organizational factors) rather than human error. Although the retention of the surgical device in this patient might have been a consequence of a series of actions/factors, there is a more specific term for this type of medical error.

**E - Latent error** - A latent error is an error due to a system design issue that predisposes people working in the system to make mistakes (e.g., implementation of new equipment without adequate staff training). However, in this case, the error was made by health care personnel in direct contact with the patient rather than an error in the design of the system.

