### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - "I understand your concern; I can assure you that the probability of addiction is minimal in this situation."** - The management of pain associated with vasoocclusive crises involves the use of analgesia, which may include opioids for moderate-to-severe pain or pain that is not sufficiently controlled with nonopioid analgesics (e.g., acetaminophen). The physician has an ethical obligation to act in the patient's best interests and relieve her suffering by providing adequate pain control. However, these ethical principles must be balanced with the need to respect parental autonomy and obtain informed parental consent. In this case, the patient's mother has raised a valid concern. Therefore, the most appropriate response is for the physician to acknowledge the mother's concerns and reassure her by educating her about the low risk of opioid addiction in the sickle-cell population. Studies have shown that the prevalence of opioid use disorder in the sickle cell population is similar or lower than in the general population, with lower mortality as a result of opioid use compared to other chronic pain conditions (e.g., migraines, fibromyalgia).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - “You must have seen a lot as a social worker. Please tell me more about the cases of morphine addiction that you have seen.”** - While fostering open communication and trying to understand the reasoning behind the mother's concerns are important, doing so when the patient requires urgent pain relief is inappropriate. To uphold the ethical principles of beneficence and nonmaleficence, this patient urgently requires opioid analgesia because her pain is not sufficiently controlled with acetaminophen.

**B - “I urge you to reconsider. I know you don't want your daughter to be in pain and this is her best treatment option.”** - Urging the patient's mother to reconsider her decision is the correct action in this scenario because this patient's pain is not sufficiently controlled by acetaminophen and requires opioid analgesia. However, this response places unnecessary emotional pressure on the mother because it insinuates that her decision to refuse opioids means that she is willing to let her daughter suffer. Instead, the physician should provide the mother with objective and relevant information to allow her to make an informed decision, thus maintaining respect for the principle of autonomy.

**C - "I am sorry, but in emergency situations like this, I have the authority to treat your daughter without your consent."** - State courts can overrule parental decisions in cases where the failure to provide established standards of care would result in serious preventable harm to the child (e.g., bacterial meningitis, malignancy). Although this case may meet the criteria for such an exception, other less combative measures aimed at fostering communication, cooperation, and trust should be attempted first. In this case, the physician should provide the mother with objective information about opioid use in the sickle cell population to address her concerns and maintain parental autonomy.

**D - “If you don't consent to treatment with morphine, we can try to give her a different nonopioid medication and see if that helps.”** - NSAIDs and other nonopioid pain medications have been shown to be ineffective in improving pain control for sickle cell disease patients requiring hospitalization. Fear of addiction should not prevent the appropriate administration of opioid analgesics when clinically indicated. To uphold the ethical principles of beneficence and nonmaleficence, opioid analgesia should be urgently administered to this patient.

