### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Ask the patient to state her full name and date of birth** - Asking the patient to state their full name and date of birth is a reliable method for verifying their identity prior to a medical intervention (e.g., drawing blood, administering medications or blood products). Further appropriate patient identifiers include an assigned identification number (on an armband attached to the patient), telephone number, or other unique identifiers available in the patient's health record or established on admission. The specific two patient identifiers used for verification should ideally be standardized within a given setting (e.g., consistently using full name and date of birth on this patient's ward).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Scan the barcodes on the patient's armband and the medication dispensers** - While verifying that the barcodes on the patient's armband and the medication dispensers match ensures that the prepared medication is intended for the owner of the armband, it is not an appropriate method of patient identification. An armband is not itself a patient identifier but rather a medium on which unique identifiers (e.g., an identification number) can be printed. Moreover, when an armband is used as part of identification, it must be attached to the patient at all times.

**C - Request that the patient name and visually identify her chronic disease medications** - Requesting that patients name their chronic disease medications can serve as a safety check when handing out drugs. However, errors are likely to occur when patients are asked to visually identify medications (e.g., due to differences between pharmaceutical brands). Moreover, this nurse is about to administer insulin, a high-alert medication that requires special attention to ensure the correct patient is receiving it.

**D - Check the patient's room number and patient identification number against the inpatient ward logs** - While a patient identification number on an armband is considered a unique patient identifier, it loses this quality when the armband is not attached to the patient at all times, as is the case here. A room number is not an appropriate identifier, given that rooms are typically shared and patients are often moved from room to room.

**E - Telephone the nurse who covered the previous shift** - Asking the nurse who covered the previous shift to verify the patient's identity over the phone is an unreliable method of patient identification. Moreover, it is not appropriate to call a health care provider who is not on duty if not absolutely necessary, as this can contribute to work exhaustion and burnout.

