### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - "If we send the patient for echocardiography, his surgery will be delayed by at least one day. Can you please explain to me why you think this patient requires this test?"** - This response is an example of collaboration (conflict management strategy). The surgeon's genuine inquiry about the anesthetist's reasoning allows an open discussion about the necessity of preoperative echocardiography and potential alternative courses of action. In collaborative negotiations, the participants should explore each other's thought processes (appreciative inquiry) and aim to understand their own interests regarding the issue (self-reflection). The collaboration strategy, which aims to solve problems in everyone's best interest (including the patient's), helps to maintain a good relationship between the conflicting parties and promotes mutual understanding, respect, and trust. A downside of this approach is that it is time-consuming and requires more effort and commitment, which may be impractical in emergency situations.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - "I do not understand why the patient requires echocardiography. Would it be possible for you to discuss the case with my attending surgeon?"** - This response is an example of avoidance (conflict management strategy). Avoidance may be appropriate when there is no time to deal with a conflict, when others can handle the conflict better, when the issue is not worth the effort of an argument, and/or when the other party is exhibiting hostile behavior. Though avoidance allows the surgeon to deflect conflict and stress, this strategy should not be the initial approach because it will likely damage the relationship between the residents and may lead to future conflicts. Moreover, by simply passing on the conflict to the attending, the surgeon weakens themself and denies responsibility for the patient. Involving third parties is helpful if two parties are not able to solve conflicts among themselves. However, in such cases, it is appropriate to involve a neutral third party rather than a negotiator that stands on the same side as one of the conflicting parties.

**C - "Based on my assessment of the patient's cardiac risk score, I believe that echocardiography is unnecessary in this situation. An argument could, however, be made for an ECG."** - This response is an example of compromise (conflict management strategy). Compromising may be appropriate when a quick or temporary solution is required, when the issues are only moderately important to either party, or when all other strategies are exhausted. While this strategy may result in a fair outcome as both parties are giving up something in order to reach a solution, it may create a lose-lose situation in which neither party is satisfied with the outcome. Moreover, an ECG is not an appropriate replacement for echocardiography and not in the patient's best interest.

**D - "I trust your professional judgement in this situation. If the echocardiography is important, we can delay the surgery and inform the patient."** - This response is an example of accommodation (conflict management strategy). Accommodating may be appropriate when an issue is less important to the accommodating party, when maintaining harmony is more important than achieving a personal goal, when one party accepts that their position is wrong, or when continuing the conflict is unlikely to lead to a positive outcome. Though accommodating can reduce conflict and stress, this strategy should not be the surgeon's initial approach because it creates a win/lose relationship and may lead to feelings of resentment by the “losing” party. Simply giving in may also put the surgical resident in a position in which they can be taken advantage of in the future. Moreover, it is not in the patient's best interest to delay the surgery if there are no good reasons.

**E - "This patient does not want to stay longer than needed in the hospital. Since he has already received preoperative clearance by an anesthetist, we must proceed with the surgery."** - This response is an example of forcing (conflict management strategy). Forcing may be appropriate when a quick solution to a problem is essential (e.g., life-threatening situation) or when all other methods are exhausted. This strategy should not be the surgeon's initial approach to this conflict because it might provoke similarly competitive behavior in the anesthetist, which will require more energy from both parties. Moreover, creating a situation in which one side “wins” and the other side “loses” may negatively affect the working relationship.

