### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Morbidity and mortality review** - Morbidity and mortality reviews (M&Ms) are department meetings in which selected cases involving medical errors (including near misses and preventable or ameliorable adverse events) are confidentially presented, reviewed, and discussed among peers. The meetings should ideally follow a standardized format that includes analyzing medical errors and determining improvement measures to be followed up. M&Ms take place at regular intervals, typically monthly. The goal of an M&M is not to punish individuals but to identify measures for individual improvement and increase situational awareness as well as collective responsibility among team members. Since M&Ms are a type of peer review activity, the meeting's proceedings, findings, and recommendations (as well as any documentation) are legally protected and inadmissible in malpractice lawsuits.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Root cause analysis** - A root cause analysis (RCA) is a type of retrospective patient safety investigation. It is conducted following the near-miss of a sentinel event (e.g., surgery on the wrong patient) and involves interviewing frontline workers (e.g., surgeons). Unlike the meeting described here, however, an RCA focuses on identifying problems within systems and processes (blunt-end errors) rather than only individual actions (sharp-end errors) and involves discussions with interprofessional teams (i.e., all staff in the operating room including nurses, technicians, and anesthetists, not just surgeons). In addition, an RCA is a more thorough process than the one described in this scenario; it analyzes all events rather than select cases (if the RCA is conducted after multiple events) and is performed with the 5WH1 and 5 Whys technique and analysis tools (e.g., fishbone diagram) in order to determine the root cause of the problem.

Image File: 1713-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_608bfb840ae94.jpg

**B - Lean process improvement** - Lean process improvement in health care means continuously evaluating the efficiency of working processes in order to identify areas of waste and eliminate factors that use time, energy, and resources without improving patient outcomes (e.g., unnecessary diagnostic tests, storage costs for superfluous equipment). While ongoing process improvement helps to prevent medical errors, the aim of the implemented meetings described here is to present and discuss errors that have already occurred.

**C - Plan-do-study-act cycle** - The plan-do-study-act (PDSA) cycle is a model that is often used in health care quality management and is typically focused on the rapid as well as continuous development and testing of process changes. The first phase (“plan”) of the PDSA cycle consists of preparing a new process or tool (e.g., a patient safety training program for surgeons), identifying one or more quality improvement (QI) measures that reflect the performance of the new process or tool (e.g., an outcome measure such as the number of near miss events), and establishing a target for a change in the identified QI measure (e.g., a statistically significant decrease in the number of near misses). The implemented meetings described here may be used to assess the need for improvement in specific areas and prepare a plan but do not meet all of the criteria for the first phase of the PDSA cycle.

Image File: 1713-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f3e398e5c9a3.jpg

**E - Failure mode and effects analysis** - Failure mode and effects analysis is a prospective error analysis that is used to identify potential risks and hazards and take preventive measures before a medical error occurs. Components of this analysis include the identification of what could go wrong (failure mode), identification of why it could go wrong (failure causes), identification of the outcomes of the potential failures (failure effects), and proactive implementation of corrective measures. The aim of the implemented meetings described here, however, is to present and discuss errors that have already occurred.

