### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - "I would like to know more about why you don't want to hear your test results."** - This is the most appropriate response because it indicates an attempt to understand the patient's apprehension regarding the disclosure of his diagnosis while respecting his decision-making autonomy. Patients have the right to refuse a diagnostic or therapeutic intervention. Patients also have the right to refuse to receive information about a diagnosis before interventions are proposed. This is the rationale for obtaining the patient's invitation as described in the SPIKES protocol for disclosing bad news.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "I have a moral obligation as a physician to inform you about the diagnosis."** - If a patient does not wish to know their diagnosis, their physician is not ethically or morally obligated to disclose it to them. Moreover, this disclosure would fail to respect the patient's wish to not receive the diagnosis.

**B - "I would like to do further testing to investigate how far this cancer has spread."** - This statement inadvertently reveals the diagnosis, which is against the wishes of the patient who has full decision-making capacity. This disclosure does not respect the patient's autonomy.

**C - "I don't have to tell you, but I will have to tell your wife so we can plan your therapy."** - Because this patient has full decision-making capacity, there is no reason that his personal health information should be disclosed to his wife. Doing so would be a violation of the patient's right to privacy. If a patient with full decision-making capacity has provided consent, treatment can proceed without disclosing the exact diagnosis. In cases in which the patient lacks decision-making capacity, physicians may discuss the patient's health status with the patient's health care decision maker without explicit permission from the patient.

**D - "I'll have to consult with the ethics committee to determine further steps."** - This response inappropriately delays treatment and does not respect the patient's right to not be informed of the diagnosis. Deferring the responsibility to an ethics committee or delaying a response in order to seek counsel would be inappropriate in this case.

