### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Reassure the mother** - Masturbation is only abnormal if it becomes intrusive, disruptive, or interferes with daily functioning. It appears that this patient has not been affected in his ability to carry out daily activities and succeed academically. This behavior should not be discouraged and the mother should be reassured and counseled appropriately.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Advise the patient to stop masturbating** - This patient's masturbation has not disrupted his daily functioning. It would be wrong to discourage non-disruptive masturbation, since it is a perfectly normal and healthy behavior.

**B - Measure serum testosterone level** - Typical indications for testosterone measurement are delayed puberty in males, male infertility, or virilization in females. This patient has none of these clinical features, and masturbation does not warrant testosterone testing.

**C - Refer the patient for behavioral therapy** - Behavioral therapy can be used to treat sexual dysfunction disorders (i.e., male hypoactive sexual desire disorder, female sexual arousal disorder, genito-pelvic pain disorder). However, masturbation that does not interfere with daily functioning is not considered a sexual dysfunction disorder and does not require behavioral therapy.

**E - Prescribe sertraline** - SSRIs such as sertraline are indicated in patients with psychiatric disorders such as depression or generalized anxiety disorder. This patient has no features that suggest a psychiatric illness.

**F - Refer the patient for psychoanalytic therapy** - Psychoanalytic therapy may be useful in the treatment of certain sexual disorders, including difficulty sustaining healthy sexual relationships. However, masturbation that does not interfere with daily functioning is not considered a sexual dysfunction disorder and does not require psychoanalysis.

