### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - "You and your baby are at risk of developing serious complications during delivery, which cannot be managed at home. I strongly recommend that you choose to come to the hospital."** - Planned home birth is associated with a decreased risk of maternal interventions (e.g., induction of labor) but a higher risk of perinatal death and neurological complications (e.g., neonatal seizures). Therefore, it is crucial to carefully select appropriate candidates. The American College of Gynecologists and Obstetricians (ACOG) considers fetal malpresentation (e.g., breech presentation), multiple gestations, and previous cesarean deliveries to be absolute contraindications for planned home births. This statement by the physician points out the dangers of home delivery given the patient's risk factors and clearly states that it is not advisable in this situation.

When there is only one appropriate course of action, as seen here, and the patient does not agree, physicians should apply the principle of directive counseling, meaning that they should take an active role in the decision-making process by offering guidance and recommendations based on their expert clinical judgment. If multiple management options exist, each with its own benefits and risks, the principle of shared decision-making should be employed.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - "A home birth with assistance from a certified midwife certainly has a few advantages. I would like to contact your midwife so that I can discuss your care prior to delivery."** - Although home births have certain benefits (e.g., lower risk of interventions, familiar environment) in low-risk pregnancies and close communication between the midwife and physician (i.e., parallel prenatal care) can be helpful, this patient has an absolute contraindication to planned home birth.

**B - "A home birth increases the risk of harm to your baby. You must discuss this matter with your husband and obtain his consent before choosing home birth."** - Although it is advisable to involve fathers in the decision-making process, pregnant women and their care providers are the primary decision-makers. Neither the father's agreement nor consent is required.

**C - "The hospital is the safest environment for delivery. Although we are equipped to deal with any potential complication, the risk of medical intervention during a hospital delivery is actually lower when compared to home birth."** - This statement is not true, since hospital deliveries are associated with a higher risk of medical interventions when compared to planned home birth. One reason for this association might be that women who decide on planned home deliveries are often multiparous and have fewer risk factors.

**D - "A home birth is generally not recommended. It concerns me that, if a complication occurs, the delay in transfer to the hospital would result in severe harm to you or your baby."** - This statement is not true, since home births can be considered under certain circumstances (e.g., in a multiparous woman without preexisting medical or obstetric conditions, and a singleton cephalic fetus between 37 and 41 weeks' gestation, with the assistance of a certified midwife). Moreover, while home births can result in delays in care if transfer to a hospital is necessary, a potential delay is not the most appropriate reason for not recommending a home birth in this scenario.

