### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Medication review** - This patient most likely developed an NSAID-induced ulcer as a result of long-term ibuprofen use. The subsequent long-term use of a proton pump inhibitor (omeprazole) and antacids probably led to vitamin B12 deficiency due to achlorhydria. This is a typical example of a prescription cascade, in which an adverse event (vitamin B12 deficiency) develops as a result of new medications (e.g., omeprazole, over-the-counter antacids) that were prescribed to treat the adverse effects of another medication (NSAID-induced ulcer). In addition to measuring serum vitamin B12 levels, a medication review should be performed to identify this medication error. Prescription cascades can be prevented by educating patients on possible side effects of new drugs, starting treatment at low doses, asking patients about the occurrence of new symptoms after prescribing new drugs, and periodic reviews of medication, including over-the-counter medication.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Folate supplementation** - Folate supplementation is used in the treatment of folate deficiency. Although folate deficiency can manifest with macrocytic, megaloblastic anemia, neurological symptoms are not expected. Furthermore, this patient most likely has vitamin B12 deficiency secondary to long-term proton pump inhibitor use. In a patient with vitamin B12 deficiency, the supplementation of folate alone can worsen vitamin B12 deficiency.

**B - Tissue transglutaminase antibody test** - Tissue transglutaminase antibody (anti-tTG) testing is used in the workup of celiac disease, which can cause vitamin B12 deficiency but would cause chronic steatorrhea, bloating, and crampy abdominal pain rather than dyspeptic features (e.g., peptic ulcer disease). After measuring serum vitamin B12 levels and addressing the most likely cause of this patient's vitamin B12 deficiency, an anti-intrinsic factor antibody test rather than an anti-tTG test would be appropriate to rule out atrophic gastritis, which can cause dyspeptic features and vitamin B12 deficiency.

**D - Esophagogastroduodenoscopy** - Esophagogastroduodenoscopy is used for the definitive diagnosis of atrophic gastritis, which can cause dyspepsia, and autoimmune metaplastic atrophic gastritis (AMAG) can manifest with pernicious anemia (vitamin B12 deficiency and megaloblastic anemia). However, esophagogastroduodenoscopy should not be done before less invasive steps (e.g., vitamin B12 levels, anti-intrinsic factor antibody testing) are performed first.

**E - Bone marrow biopsy** - A bone marrow biopsy is part of the initial management for several hematologic conditions, such as myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), which typically affects elderly individuals and can manifest with macrocytic anemia. However, symmetrical peripheral neuropathy is not an expected finding, and hyposegmented rather than hypersegmented neutrophils may be seen on peripheral blood smear (i.e., pseudo-Pelger-Huet anomaly). A bone marrow biopsy is not part of the initial diagnostic workup for suspected vitamin B12 deficiency.

