### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - "I’m sorry for your loss. Would you like to tell me a little more about your husband?"** - It is important to express sympathy for a bereaved patient and to offer a space for the patient to discuss their feelings. Inviting this patient to talk about her husband gives her an opportunity to appropriately discuss her feelings and also may offer insight into her frequent office visits. Discussion also allows the physician to better evaluate the patient's grief and determine if it is normal or complicated. Normal grief includes symptoms like sadness, anxiety, somatic distress, and even simple hallucinations. Complicated grief is prolonged, impairs the physiologic process of adaption to loss, and can impair the ability to manage daily life. Complicated grief can lead to further medical conditions, like persistent complex bereavement disorder, major depressive disorder, suicidal ideation, and substance use disorder.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - "It is common to develop depression after the loss of a partner. Would you like me to refer you for counseling?"** - Counseling can be an appropriate adjuvant step in the management of patients who experience bereavement. However, immediately offering referral without further discussion with the patient is dismissive of her concerns.

**C - "Do you have family in the area who can help you with your grief? It would be inappropriate for me to take on this role."** - Social support is an important factor in the psychosocial treatment of bereaved patients. However, it is important that the physician recognize their own role in providing care for a bereaved patient. This includes exploring the patient's grief to determine whether the grief is normal or complicated.

**D - "I understand you are still grieving. I would like to prescribe you a medication to help you with your knee pain."** - The reported knee pain is the original reason for the visit and should be addressed medically if indicated. However, this patient has just broached the topic of her grief, which should be addressed first.

**E - "That must be very difficult for you. However, I hope you understand that you should limit your visits here to urgent medical problems."** - Stating that the situation must be difficult for the patient is a way of expressing sympathy, which is important for communication with bereaved patients. However, reminding this patient to limit her visits to urgent medical problems is not appropriate, because it is dismissive of the patient's current concerns.

**F - “It is common to drink more alcohol than usual after the loss of a partner. Have you ever felt you needed to cut down on your drinking?”** - Asking a patient if they have ever felt the need to cut down on their drinking is one of the CAGE screening questions for alcohol use disorder. This patient mentioned having started to consume alcohol regularly, and it is important to further evaluate this topic. However, this can be done later in the conversation. At this point, the patient just broached the topic of her grief, and the physician should offer a space to continue talking about this. Changing the subject to her alcohol use is dismissive of her current concerns.

