### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Implementation of real-time feedback loops for hand hygiene compliance** - The most common mechanism for CLABSI is microbial spread (via surface motility and/or biofilm formation) to the CVC exit site from the patient's skin and/or the CVC hub. The hands of health care providers (HCPs) are often colonized by pathogens, resulting in HCPs cross-contaminating patients, other HCPs, and inanimate objects (leading to contact transmission), thereby facilitating nosocomial infections. Strict adherence to hand hygiene measures is necessary to prevent nosocomial infections such as CLABSI. Despite high numbers of hand hygiene stations and visual reminders at hospitals, the level of hand hygiene compliance among HCPs remains low because of lapses (due to work overload), knowledge deficiency, and/or intolerance or aversion to certain disinfectants. An effective measure to increase compliance is a real-time feedback loop, in which hand hygiene observers or electronic hand hygiene systems monitor compliance and provide immediate feedback (e.g., verbal feedback on improper technique, data visualization of each hospital floor's hand hygiene process measures). Additional steps to increase hand hygiene compliance include staff training and providing alcohol-based foam rubs (which are quicker to use, more effective, and no more irritating to the skin than soap and water) at hand hygiene stations.

CLABSI bundles (a collection of measures to prevent CLABSI) include proper site identification and technique for CVC insertion (e.g., avoiding the femoral region whenever possible), standardized checklists and aseptic precautions (e.g., sterile glove use, disinfection with chlorhexidine) for CVC insertion as well as CVC site care, CVC removal as soon as possible, and champions-led rounding. These measures are important adjuncts but not substitutes for hand hygiene.

Image File: 1731-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e67b0e2cfb5e.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Maintenance of negative ambient air pressure in intensive care units** - Maintenance of negative ambient air pressure is an example of an airborne precaution, which is effective in preventing in-hospital airborne transmission of diseases such as tuberculosis, measles, or varicella. P. aeruginosa is spread via contact transmission; standard precautions and contact precautions are effective in preventing nosocomial P. aeruginosa infections but airborne precautions are not. Moreover, in intensive care units, especially ones caring for immunosuppressed patients, a protective environment with a positive rather than negative ambient air pressure is usually maintained (neutropenic precautions).

**C - Placement of central venous catheters in the femoral rather than subclavian vein** - When compared with the subclavian vein, placement of CVCs in the femoral vein has a lower risk of certain insertion-related complications (e.g., pneumothorax, hematomas, vein stenosis) but a higher risk of CLABSI. Moreover, femoral CVCs are more likely to result in CLABSIs with gram-negative bacilli and Candida because the groin area has high levels of colonization by these microbes (due to factors such as moisture in intertriginous areas and proximity to the anogenital region) and is harder to keep clean. Femoral CVCs should be avoided.

**D - Administration of ceftazidime through the introducer needle before passing the guide wire** - Ceftazidime is an antibiotic that is effective against P. aeruginosa, and antibiotic lock therapy (e.g., with ceftazidime-heparin solutions) can be used selectively for the secondary prevention of CLABSI (e.g., for patients like this one receiving hemodialysis via tunneled catheters). However, antibiotics are ineffective in the primary prevention of CLABSI and do not have a role before or during CVC insertion (e.g., through the introducer needle). Antibiotics should only be used if indicated and, in such cases, the principle of antibiotic stewardship should be followed.

Image File: 1731-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59b7ef93b384c.jpg

**E - Application of mupirocin ointment to the anterior nares of critically ill patients** - Staphylococcus aureus, which causes nosocomial infections including CLABSI, often colonizes the anterior nares, and nasal application of mupirocin ointment is recommended for critically ill patients as part of the universal decolonization protocol to prevent methicillin-resistant S. aureus infection. However, S. aureus is a gram-positive coccus whereas this patient has a P. aeruginosa infection. P. aeruginosa rarely colonizes the upper airways (e.g., in patients with cystic fibrosis) and mupirocin is typically ineffective against Pseudomonas spp.

