### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - "There is no indication that you might benefit from this test. I cannot in good conscience order the test for you at this time."** - This response firmly yet politely rejects the patient's request. When evaluating a patient's demand for nonindicated care, physicians need to balance the core ethical principles. The ethical principle of patient autonomy, according to which a physician only assists in making decisions corresponding to the patient's personal values, is overruled in favor of beneficence and nonmaleficence in this directive counseling approach. Since there is no evidence that the possible benefits of whole-body CT scanning of asymptomatic individuals (e.g., to relieve the fear of cancer) outweigh the potential harm (e.g., radiation exposure, potential detection of ill-defined abnormalities requiring follow-up testing and interventions), the physician is acting in the patient's best interest (beneficence) and preventing harm (nonmaleficence). Moreover, denying nonindicated care also helps to ensure more equitable care. Finally, it is important for the physician to emphasize that the test is currently not indicated; it might be indicated in the future.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "I understand that you are concerned about having cancer. I can order the test if you are willing to sign an against-medical-advice form."** - This response shows empathy and acknowledges the patient's concerns, which helps to build a trusting patient-physician relationship. However, regardless of whether the patient signs an against-medical-advice form, it is not appropriate for the physician to order a nonindicated, potentially harmful screening test.

**B - "A whole-body CT scan is associated with high levels of radiation exposure. I would instead recommend an MRI scan, which is a safer alternative."** - This response relies on the principle of shared-decision making, according to which patients and physicians decide on the best diagnostic and/or treatment option together. Though an MRI is not associated with radiation exposure and therefore has fewer potential risks than a CT scan, neither a CT scan nor an MRI is indicated in this case.

**D - "Unfortunately, your health insurance plan will not cover this test. Would you be willing to pay for it yourself?"** - Patients may require a test or treatment not covered by their insurance, in which case they should be informed about the option of paying for the service out of pocket. However, regardless of whether it is covered by her insurance, it is not appropriate for the physician to order a nonindicated, potentially harmful screening test.

**E - "I am sorry that there is nothing I can do for you at this point. If you insist on having the test, I think it would be best to see another physician."** - While physicians should always inform patients of their right to seek an additional medical opinion, it is not appropriate to threaten to end the patient-physician relationship because the patient insists on having a nonindicated test. Also, sending the patient to another physician will not solve the problem. Denying the request for a nonindicated screening test is the correct action, which is why the physician should refrain from apologizing. Finally, it is not true that the physician cannot do anything at this point, when the patient could be counseled on other aspects of health maintenance.

