### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Do not proceed with organ donation** - If the patient lacks decision-making capacity or is deceased and does not have advance directives, a self-appointed SDM, or court-appointed SDM, the next of kin becomes their SDM. Most states have established a hierarchy to assign a next of kin as the SDM, although the order may vary from state to state. Spouses are most often listed first, followed by adult children, parents, adult siblings, and close friends. Fiancés and nonlegal partners are not considered spouses in most states, and adulthood is typically defined as 18 years of age. In this case, the patient's parents, who are not in favor of organ donation, would serve as this patient's representatives. The organ donation process should therefore be stopped.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Encourage another family meeting with a social worker** - If there is a disagreement between the next of kin on the most appropriate course of action, it is appropriate for the physician to first encourage a meeting between disagreeing family members with the aim of reaching an agreement about what the deceased would have desired. However, such a meeting has already been arranged, and there are no grounds to assume that a second meeting with a social worker would provide further clarification. Most states generally establish a clear hierarchy for who would be assigned as the SDM among the next of kin.

**B - Initiate organ procurement procedures** - It would be appropriate to proceed with the organ procurement process if the parents had consented to organ donation because parents are generally considered the highest priority SDMs after spouses. In this scenario, a different action is appropriate in most states.

**C - Request a court-appointed guardian** - It is appropriate to request a court-appointed guardian for a patient who lacks the capacity to make medical decisions when there is no medical power of attorney or next of kin available to serve as the SDM. In this scenario, the patient has multiple family members involved, some of whom qualify to be SDMs, so it would not be necessary to request a court-appointed guardian.

**E - Request the patient’s son to intercede and make a decision** - Although mature or emancipated minors can, in some states, under rare circumstances, be appointed as SDMs, individuals under 18 years of age are generally considered legally incompetent to make medical decisions. This patient's son is 17 years of age and not considered a mature or emancipated minor, so another person would be designated as the SDM.

