### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Use a remote medical interpretation service** - When a caregiver is unable to adequately communicate with a patient in a language that allows for a thorough conversation and assessment of the patient's interpretation of the relevant facts, the most appropriate action is to request a professional interpreter. If in-person interpreter services are inaccessible, as in this case, remote (e.g., phone or video) interpreter services are acceptable. Approximately 20% of the adult population in the United States speaks a language other than English at home, and federal law requires linguistic services for patients with limited English proficiency. Ad hoc medical interpreters (e.g., bilingual staff, family members) are not acceptable alternatives to professional interpreters in the medical setting.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Request that the medical student assist in interpretation** - Requesting assistance from the bilingual medical student would only be acceptable if the student were professionally certified as a medical interpreter. Ad hoc interpreters may not accurately interpret medical terminology, which can result in clinically significant errors.

**B - Speak to the patient in her native language** - Though direct communication between the physician and patient in her native language is preferred, the physician only has self-reported basic proficiency in Portuguese. Self-reported competence is often subjective and may result in medical errors. Some institutions have a medical interpreter certification process for clinicians, but there is no indication that the physician has undergone such a process.

**C - Use an automated translation software** - Automated translation software (ATS) can be a useful option to help provide written information about a patient's diagnosis and management. However, ATS translation of medical phrases is not always accurate, so it is not a reliable tool in the clinical setting. In addition, this method of communication makes it difficult to ask questions for more detail and to check patient comprehension.

**D - Request that the patient's daughter assist in interpretation** - Requesting assistance from the patient's daughter is not appropriate in this scenario. Ad hoc interpreters are often unable to accurately interpret medical terminology unless they have received professional medical interpretation training. In addition, the use of family members as interpreters may result in conflicts of interest (e.g., if the patient's daughter misrepresents the risks or benefits of the procedure).

