### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Urinary output** - Urine output is a good indicator of kidney perfusion, which is an indicator of overall organ perfusion. Maintaining organ perfusion is the primary goal of IV fluid therapy in burn patients. Initially, the approximate volume of fluid required may be estimated (e.g., via the Parkland formula), however this is merely a starting point, and IV fluid volume should be titrated to maintain a urine output of 0.5 mL/kg/h in adults (1 mL/kg/h in children). Although heart rate and blood pressure should be monitored in patients with burns, these parameters are not good indicators of overall organ perfusion.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Heart rate** - Tachycardia is a common early sign of hypovolemia. However, the heart rate is of minimal utility in assessing fluid resuscitation because even adequately resuscitated burn patients may be mildly tachycardic, likely due to stress hormone (e.g., catecholamine) release.

**B - The Parkland formula** - The Parkland formula is a tool commonly used to estimate fluid requirements during the first 24 hours of care in burn patients. While this is a good tool for estimating this patient's initial fluid requirements, it is merely an estimate. Another method can more accurately verify if fluid resuscitation is adequate.

**C - The Holliday-Segar formula** - The Holliday-Segar formula may be used to estimate maintenance fluid requirements. However, the fluid requirement of patients with burns during the first 24 hours far exceed the estimate provided by Holliday-Segar formula. A different method is therefore required to assess adequate fluid requirement during the first 24 hours.

**D - Blood pressure** - Sphygmomanometric blood pressure monitoring in a burned limb is unreliable, as edema of the area does not allow for the accurate auscultation of Korotkoff sounds. Blood pressure is therefore underestimated. If more fluid were administered to the patient based on a misinterpretation of blood pressure, edema in the limb would worsen, and the risk of pulmonary edema would increase. Also, blood pressure may be normal despite decreased intravascular fluid volume and end-organ perfusion in a patient with an intact vasomotor response and would only begin to decrease once shock sets in. Even intra-arterial manometry may be unreliable because of peripheral vasoconstriction by stress hormones (e.g., catecholamines).

**E - Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure** - Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) may be increased in patients with burns during the initial 12–18 hours as a result of cardiac dysfunction. However, PCWP should not be used to verify if the infused fluid volume is adequate because PCWP is also not a reliable indicator of end-organ perfusion.

**F - Central venous pressure** - Central venous pressure (CVP) should not be used to verify the adequacy of fluid volume infusion, since a decrease in CVP is a relatively late sign of intravascular volume depletion in patients with intact vasomotor reflexes. CVP is thus not a reliable measure of end-organ perfusion.

