### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Enzyme‑linked immunosorbent assay** - ELISA is the screening test for Lyme disease. Peripheral facial nerve paralysis is the most common cranial neuropathy in Lyme disease. If ELISA is positive, Western blot should be performed to confirm the diagnosis.

Image File: 952-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fc7d0f88f7d9.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Western blot** - Western blot confirms Lyme disease through detection of IgG and IgM antibodies against Borrelia, but it is not appropriate for screening. Western blot is also used as a confirmatory test in HIV diagnosis, which is a rare cause of facial nerve palsy. However, the patient's history and symptoms are not indicative of HIV infection.

**B - Polymerase chain reaction of the facial skin** - PCR of the facial skin can be used to detect various pathogens, including varicella zoster virus and herpes simplex virus (HSV). Herpes zoster oticus is one of the most common infectious causes of facial nerve paralysis, however, the pain and herpetic skin vesicles characteristic of herpes zoster are not present in this patient, making this diagnosis unlikely. Reactivation of HSV is thought to be a trigger of the majority of cases of Bell palsy, but the patient's history of a hunting trip in association with his symptoms are highly suspicion for Lyme disease.

**C - Cerebrospinal fluid analysis** - CSF analysis via lumbar puncture is not used as an initial test for diagnosing Lyme disease. Although CSF findings would include signs of lymphocytic meningitis (elevated protein and pleocytosis) and intrathecal Borrelia-specific IgG and IgM antibodies can be detected via immunoblot, an LP is an invasive test and serological testing would be more appropriate. CSF analysis is, however, used to rule out other specific causes of facial nerve palsy, including Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS), multiple sclerosis (MS), and meningitis. Facial nerve palsy is a rare finding in these conditions though, and other simultaneous typical clinical features of these conditions would be expected.

**E - Noncontrast CT scan of the head** - Noncontrast CT scan of the head is warranted for facial nerve palsy if trauma or tumor are suspected, or if the clinical features are atypical, progress > 3 weeks, or persist > 4 months. It is also the initial test of choice for suspected stroke, an important differential diagnosis of facial nerve palsy in this patient given his history of smoking and hypertension. However, stroke is typically associated with central facial nerve paralysis that spares the forehead, which is not the case here. Other symptoms of stroke, including contralateral hemiparesis and homonymous hemianopia, are also absent. Rarely, a stroke in the brainstem involving the LMN of the facial nerve can cause ipsilateral peripheral nerve palsy, but other symptoms (e.g., vertebrobasilar insufficiency) would also be expected.

