### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Genetic testing** - Genetic testing for C282Y or H63D mutations of the HFE (high iron Fe) gene on chromosome 6 is required to confirm the diagnosis of hereditary hemochromatosis. Genetic testing is indicated for patients with confirmed iron overload (transferrin saturation ≥ 45%, or serum ferritin levels > 200 ng/dL among men and >150 ng/dL among women). In this patient, a ferritin level of 558 ng/dL and a transferrin saturation of 83%, especially in the presence of diabetes, hepatomegaly, and hyperpigmentation, should prompt genetic testing for hereditary hemochromatosis. The presence of homozygous C282Y mutations or compound heterozygous mutations (C282Y/H63D) would confirm the diagnosis.

Image File: 956-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb41220d9c8d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - CT scan of the abdomen** - A CT scan of the abdomen may reveal evidence of iron overload but can not differentiate primary (HH) from secondary iron overload, so a different investigation is required at this time. However, in patients with HH, a contrast-enhanced CT scan of the abdomen is indicated to evaluate for hepatocellular carcinoma if a nodule > 1 cm is detected on a screening abdominal ultrasound.

**B - Bone marrow biopsy** - A bone marrow biopsy is indicated if sideroblastic anemia is suspected. Sideroblastic anemia, a less common cause of secondary iron overload, may present with a low hemoglobin, clinical features of hemochromatosis (e.g., hepatomegaly, hyperpigmentation, diabetes), increased serum iron, increased ferritin, and increased transferrin saturation, which are all seen in this patient. However, serum ferritin levels in sideroblastic anemia are typically not more than 300 ng/dL, in contrast to the 558 ng/dL in this patient. Moreover, sideroblastic anemia is usually associated with microcytic anemia and thrombocytosis. The normal MCV and platelet count in this patient make the diagnosis of sideroblastic anemia unlikely.

**C - Abdominal ultrasonography** - Ultrasonography of the abdomen cannot confirm the diagnosis of HH. Because patients with HH who develop cirrhosis have a 20–30% lifetime risk and 3–4% annual risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma, they should undergo screening ultrasonography every 6 months. However, cirrhosis should first be identified with a different test because ultrasonography has a low sensitivity (∼ 40%) for cirrhosis.

**D - Liver biopsy** - A liver biopsy was previously considered the best initial test for diagnosing HH. This test has largely been replaced by newer, less invasive tests. According to the current guidelines, a liver biopsy is indicated primarily to stage the degree of fibrosis or cirrhosis in patients with confirmed HH, or to identify a possible cause of secondary iron overload if the initial test is inconclusive.

