### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Apply a tourniquet** - In a battlefield scenario, trauma care is established in three phases: care under fire (CUF), tactical field care (TFC), and tactical evacuation care (TEC). During the CUF phase, the priority is to return suppression fire and take cover. The only medical intervention indicated in this phase is the application of a combat tourniquet if there is ongoing hemorrhage. The TFC phase is entered when the military unit is not (or no longer) under hostile fire, which is the case here; the medic provides care according to the MARCH algorithm (Massive hemorrhage, Airway, Respiration, Circulation, and Head injury/Hypothermia). Because the most common cause of death on the battlefield is uncontrolled hemorrhage, the priority here is to control this injured soldier's hemorrhage (e.g., with a tourniquet). The TEC phase includes care provided during the transport from the battlefield to the nearest medical facility. TEC includes the continuation of interventions initiated during TFC, assessment for additional life-threatening injuries, pain control, fluid resuscitation, and initiate antibiotic therapy.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Remove the shrapnel** - The shrapnel should only be removed when the most life-threatening injuries have been addressed.

**B - Insert a vented chest seal** - The insertion of a vented chest seal is indicated in all casualties with open chest wounds, which this injured soldier has. However, the priority here is to initiate treatment for the injury with the highest life-threatening potential.

**C - Establish intravenous access** - Establishing intravenous (IV) or intraosseous (IO) access is indicated in casualties with suspected hemorrhagic shock. Given the active hemorrhage and unconsciousness, this injured soldier is potentially in hemorrhagic shock. However, before establishing IV access, the priority here is to initiate treatment for the injury with the highest life-threatening potential.

**D - Begin cardiopulmonary resuscitation** - Cardiopulmonary resuscitation is usually not performed during battlefield trauma care as the probability of success is very low. Trauma care on a battlefield scenario must be focused on life-threatening injuries that can be treated with (initially) limited resources.

**E - Check the carotid pulse** - The carotid pulse can be checked later to evaluate the patient's hemodynamic status. The priority here is to initiate treatment for the injury with the highest life-threatening potential.

**G - Administer morphine** - Morphine is commonly used for analgesia in battlefield trauma care. Given this patient's wounds, analgesia will most likely be indicated. However, the priority here is to initiate treatment for the injury with the highest life-threatening potential. Analgesics should be given later.

