### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Small cell lung carcinoma** - Microscopic examination of this hilar density is most likely to reveal a small cell lung carcinoma. SIADH is one of the common paraneoplastic syndromes associated with SCLC; others include Cushing syndrome and Lambert-Eaton syndrome.

Image File: 960-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_535fb7e03ead3.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Squamous cell lung carcinoma** - Although squamous cell lung carcinoma is the most common lung cancer in smokers and can also present with a central mass as in this patient, it is not typically associated with SIADH. Instead, it causes hypercalcemia due to the release of parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP).

Image File: 960-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59b13d25795f9.jpg

**C - Large cell lung carcinoma** - Large cell lung carcinoma is unlikely since it typically has peripheral localization and is not associated with SIADH. In some cases, it may cause paraneoplastic secretion of G-CSF or gynecomastia due to secretion of the beta subunit of β-HCG.

**D - Bronchial carcinoid tumor** - A bronchial carcinoid tumor is unlikely in this patient because it is not associated with SIADH. Instead, it can cause carcinoid syndrome (due to ectopic serotonin secretion).

**E - Lung adenocarcinoma** - While lung adenocarcinoma is the most common type of lung cancer overall, it is associated with hypercoagulability, thrombophlebitis migrans, and nonbacterial verrucous endocarditis rather than SIADH. Additionally, lung adenocarcinoma typically has peripheral localization on imaging, unlike this patient's findings.

Image File: 960-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_535fb7e043d72.jpg

