### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Bacterial infection** - Leukocytosis, hypothermia, and tender burn wounds with violaceous and edematous borders in conjunction with organ dysfunction and hypotension are suggestive of septic shock. Patients with burns have an increased risk of infection and subsequent bacteremia due to impaired barrier function of the skin and immunosuppression; the risk increases with the severity of the burn and the amount of body surface area involved. In addition, this patient's burn consists of necrotic tissue, which is a protein-rich media that encourages bacterial growth. Pseudomonas and Staphylococcus are the most common organisms associated with sepsis in hospitalized burn patients, and broad-spectrum antibiotic coverage should be initiated.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bleeding stress ulcer** - A bleeding stress ulcer can manifest with features of hypovolemic shock, such as hypotension, tachycardia, oliguria, tachypnea, metabolic acidosis, and altered mental status, all of which are seen here. In addition, severe burns are a risk factor for Curling ulcers. However, patients with a bleeding stress ulcer typically present with hematemesis, melena, and/or anemia, none of which this patient has. Moreover, leukocytosis, hypothermia, and tender burn wounds with edematous borders would not be expected.

**B - Prerenal acute kidney injury** - Prerenal acute kidney injury (AKI) may arise from volume depletion in severe burns and can manifest with oliguria, metabolic acidosis, and altered mental status (e.g., due to uremia). Although this patient most likely has prerenal AKI as a complication of her condition, leukocytosis, hypothermia, and tender burn wounds with edematous and violaceous borders suggest a different underlying cause of this patient's worsening symptoms.

**D - Postburn hypermetabolism** - Postburn hypermetabolism is a ubiquitous response to a severe burn injury and can manifest with tachycardia and tachypnea during the hypermetabolic phase 5–7 days following the injury. However, hypertension (due to hyperdynamic circulation) and hyperthermia are expected findings. This patient's leukocytosis and tender burn wounds with edematous borders suggest a different cause of her worsening symptoms.

**E - Crush syndrome** - Crush syndrome can manifest with signs of hypovolemia (hypotension, tachycardia, oliguria), tachypnea, and metabolic acidosis, all of which are seen here. Although severe burns can cause rhabdomyolysis resulting in crush syndrome, this syndrome typically occurs in patients with trauma and is, therefore, unlikely given the mechanism of injury here (i.e., burns caused by boiling hot water). In addition, darkened urine and extreme pain in the affected region are typical features of crush syndrome. Hypothermia, leukocytosis, and tender burn wounds with edematous borders suggest a different cause of this patient's worsening symptoms.

