### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Administration of potassium chloride** - Treatment of acute hepatic encephalopathy begins with correcting the precipitating factors. In this patient, the use of hydrochlorothiazide with subsequent volume depletion, hypokalemia, and contraction alkalosis are the likely precipitating factors. Prompt intravenous fluid resuscitation and administration of potassium repletion is the most appropriate next step in management of this patient's HE. In addition, patients should receive treatment to lower the serum ammonia concentration with lactulose.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - Administration of rifaximin** - Rifaximin is a nonabsorbable antibiotic that is used in the treatment of hepatic encephalopathy (HE). It acts by reducing the number of ammonia-producing enteric bacteria. Rifaximin is administered in conjunction with the first-line treatment lactulose, a laxative that decreases absorption of ammonia in the intestine; monotherapy with rifaximin is not recommended. In addition, administration of rifaximin is only indicated to prevent recurrent episodes of HE after the second episode and, therefore, not appropriate in this patient with the first episode of HE.

**C - Intermittent hemodialysis** - Intermittent hemodialysis in the setting of altered mental status would typically be indicated for severe electrolyte derangements and uremia. However, this patient has a normal BUN and mild hypokalemia, with no urgent indication for hemodialysis. Although hypokalemia can cause delirium, mild hypokalemia, as seen in this patient, is unlikely to cause severe altered mental status. Furthermore, this patient's jaundice, asterixis, and altered mental state are more consistent with hepatic encephalopathy, rather than uremia or severe electrolyte derangement. The role of hemodialysis for hyperammonemia in HE is unproven.

**D - Discontinuation of spironolactone** - Hepatic encephalopathy in this patient was likely precipitated by hypovolemia and hypokalemia in the setting of poor caloric intake and diuretic use. Although discontinuation of spironolactone may improve his hypovolemia, it could exacerbate his hypokalemia. As hypokalemia increases renal production of ammonia, discontinuing spironolactone is not the most appropriate next step in management.

**E - Low-protein total parenteral nutrition** - The goal of low-protein total parenteral nutrition is to limit the intake of nitrogen-containing amino acids and thereby reduce overall ammonia production. Low-protein nutrition, however, has not been shown to be beneficial for patients with hepatic encephalopathy. Individuals with cirrhosis have increased protein demands and are typically malnourished. Because malnutrition is a risk factor for increased mortality in those with cirrhosis and HE, a low-protein diet is not recommended.

**F - Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt** - Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt procedure is performed in patients with portal hypertension with refractory complications (i.e., esophageal variceal bleeding). TIPS worsens the risk of HE by shunting portal blood (which contains high levels of ammonia and other neurotoxins), to the systemic circulation. As the liver is bypassed with TIPSS, these neurotoxins are not metabolized. Therefore, TIPS should not be pursued in this patient.

