### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Prescribe ceftriaxone, azithromycin, and tinidazole** - Empiric antibiotic therapy with ceftriaxone, azithromycin, and tinidazole is indicated for the treatment of the most common sexually transmitted infections (i.e., chlamydia, gonorrhea, and trichomonas infections) in all adults who have experienced a sexual assault. Although antibiotic therapy can be delayed until microbiology results are available, many of these patients do not return for a follow-up visit; therefore, it is important that they receive empiric antibiotic therapy at the time of their initial presentation.

Other interventions that should be considered at the initial presentation include emergency contraception and, depending on the individual patient's profile (e.g., immunization status, serum testing results), postexposure prophylaxis against HIV, hepatitis B virus, and human papillomavirus infections. Prophylaxis against herpes simplex virus is not recommended because there is insufficient evidence to support its effectiveness.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Insert a copper intrauterine device** - A copper intrauterine device (IUD) is the most effective form of emergency contraception. However, individuals who have experienced a sexual assault are at high risk for STIs, which are a contraindication for copper IUDs. Moreover, the vaginal insertion of an IUD may increase distress in someone who has experienced sexual assault. Therefore, oral emergency contraception, such as ulipristal or levonorgestrel, is the preferred form of emergency contraception for these patients.

**B - Prescribe tenofovir and abacavir** - HIV postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) should be offered to all individuals who present within 72 hours after experiencing a sexual assault involving vaginal penetration, and it usually includes a triple regimen of tenofovir, emtricitabine, and an integrase inhibitor (e.g., raltegravir, dolutegravir). The combination of tenofovir and abacavir, however, is ineffective as both prophylaxis against and treatment for HIV infection. In addition, the decision to recommend HIV PEP should be individualized based on the patient's risk factors and circumstances of the assault. All patients should be counseled about the adverse effects and benefits of PEP before a regimen is prescribed.

**C - Administer HPV vaccine** - HPV vaccination is recommended in all women aged between 9 and 26 years who have experienced a sexual assault. This patient, however, is 30 years of age and does not require an HPV vaccine at this time. Although HPV catch-up vaccination may be considered in women aged 27–45 years with an unknown HPV immunization status, like this patient, its benefit in this age group is minimal. A different intervention is more appropriate at this time.

**D - Administer hepatitis B immunoglobulin** - Hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIG) can be considered for postexposure prophylaxis in individuals who have experienced a sexual assault if both their own and the perpetrator's hepatitis B virus (HBV) status are unknown. For this purpose, however, HBIG is only used in combination with a 3-dose HBV vaccine series, meaning that this patient would not benefit from HBIG alone.

