### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Increased release of hepcidin by hepatocytes** - Hepcidin is an acute phase reactant that is produced and released by hepatocytes in response to the activation of iron-sensing receptors (e.g., HFE, HJV, and TFR2 proteins) on their surface. Hepcidin synthesis is increased in states of inflammation or high transferrin-bound iron levels (indicating iron overload) and decreased in the setting of hypoxia or increased erythropoiesis. As the body's main regulator of iron metabolism, hepcidin inhibits the absorption of iron from duodenal enterocytes into the bloodstream and iron release from macrophages by binding and degrading ferroportin. In chronic inflammatory conditions (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis), the trapping of iron results in decreased serum iron levels and increased iron stores, as evidenced by the elevated ferritin in this patient. The change in serum iron levels and iron stores results in iron being unavailable for the synthesis of new hemoglobin, which can lead to anemia of chronic disease. The mainstay of treatment for anemia of chronic disease is management of the underlying disorder.

Image File: 968-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dbfd80317a1f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increased activity of ferroportin-1 in enterocytes** - Ferroportin-1 is a transmembrane protein that transports intracellular iron from the enterocytes and macrophages of the reticuloendothelial system into the bloodstream. Increased activity of ferroportin-1 would result in increased serum iron levels. In anemia of chronic disease, the activity of ferroportin-1 is decreased in an attempt by the immune system to make iron unavailable to potential pathogens that require it for replication. This patient with anemia of chronic disease will have decreased rather than increased activity of ferroportin-1.

**B - Increased release of iron from macrophages** - Increased release of iron from macrophages occurs in hypoxia and in states of increased erythropoiesis in order to increase the systemic availability of iron for the synthesis of new hemoglobin. In anemia of chronic disease, the innate immune system decreases the release of iron from macrophages in an attempt to make iron unavailable to potential pathogens that use it for replication, so the condition is associated with a decreased rather than an increased release of iron.

**D - Increased production of reticulocytes in bone marrow** - Increased production of reticulocytes occurs in anemia with effective compensatory erythropoiesis (e.g., hemolytic anemia, bleeding). Anemia of chronic disease is a hypoproliferative condition caused by a relative decrease in serum erythropoietin, reduced bone marrow response to erythropoietin, and a decrease in the systemic availability of iron. Therefore, this patient's production of reticulocytes will be decreased, not increased.

**E - Increased concentration of transferrin in serum** - Transferrin is an iron-transport protein. An increased serum concentration of transferrin indicates high iron-binding capacity, which would be seen in conditions such as iron deficiency and pregnancy. Anemia of chronic disease is associated with low iron-binding capacity because the condition is a result of impaired iron utilization and not iron deficiency. Therefore, the concentration of serum transferrin in this patient would be normal or decreased, not increased.

