### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Anticentromere antibodies** - Anticentromere antibodies are diagnostic for CREST syndrome, a form of lcSSc that can be found in about half of individuals with this condition. Other typical laboratory findings include increased γ-globulins in serum protein electrophoresis and nonspecific inflammatory markers.

Image File: 970-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fec77adc6856.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Anti-RNA polymerase III antibodies** - Anti-RNA polymerase III antibodies are associated with diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis (dcSSc) and, especially scleroderma renal crisis. However, this patients history and symptoms suggest CREST syndrome, which is associated with the lcSSc.

**B - Anti-Jo-1 antibodies** - Anti-Jo-1 antibodies are highly specific for inflammatory myopathies like polymyositis and dermatomyositis. This patient's history and symptoms suggest CREST syndrome, a form of lcSSc. Anti-Jo-1 antibodies are not seen in this condition.

**C - Anti-U1 RNP antibodies** - In low titers, Anti-U1 RNP antibodies are seen in several autoimmune diseases (e.g., systemic lupus erythematosus). High titers are typical for MCTD (mixed connective tissue disease), which presents with overlapping symptoms of systemic sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and polymyositis. Although this patient has CREST syndrome, a form of limited systemic sclerosis, no other features of MCTD (e.g., myositis, arthritis or pulmonary hypertension) are present.

**E - Anti-Scl-70 antibodies** - Anti-Scl-70 antibodies are most commonly associated with diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis (dcSSc) and indicate a poor prognosis. The patient's symptoms and history are suggestive of CREST syndrome, a form of lcSSc. While anti-Scl-70 antibodies may also be seen in patients with CREST syndrome, another finding is more likely.

**F - Anti-dsDNA antibodies** - Anti-dsDNA antibodies are seen in ∼ 70% of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and are highly specific for this condition. Furthermore, anti-dsDNA antibody levels correlate with the disease activity and are associated with lupus nephritis. This patient's history and symptoms suggest CREST syndrome, a form of limited systemic sclerosis. Anti-dsDNA antibodies are not typically present in this condition.

