### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Visual impairment** - Approximately 10% of patients with PMR also have giant cell arteritis (GCA), which can lead to visual impairment (e.g., amaurosis fugax, scotomas), if left untreated, due to inflammation and occlusion of the ophthalmic artery and its branches. This patient's unilateral headache is possibly an early manifestation of GCA. Low-dose oral glucocorticoids are first-line therapy for PMR, but high-dose glucocorticoid therapy should be initiated as soon as possible if GCA is suspected because it significantly lowers the risk of developing visual complications.

Image File: 971-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6040ff5ae97f9.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Generalized anxiety disorder** - Generalized anxiety disorder is commonly associated with fibromyalgia, which typically manifests with chronic (≥ 3 months) and widespread pain, headache, fatigue, and morning stiffness. However, patients with fibromyalgia often present with sleep and cognitive disturbances (fibro fog), none of which are seen here. Moreover, laboratory values are normal in fibromyalgia; an increased ESR is not expected. Additionally, the peak incidence of fibromyalgia is between 20 and 50 years of age.

Image File: 971-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5efc7eab3e37d.jpg

**B - Ovarian adenocarcinoma** - An increased risk of developing ovarian adenocarcinoma is seen in patients with dermatomyositis (DM), which manifests with constitutional symptoms and proximal muscle tenderness and weakness that typically affects the pelvic and shoulder girdle. However, patients with DM present with cutaneous manifestations, such as Gottron papules, mechanic's hands, or a heliotrope rash, none of which are seen here. Moreover, while this patient's creatine kinase (CK) is normal, inflammatory myopathies typically manifest with an increased serum concentration of CK.

Image File: 971-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dfa4fe192c9a.jpg

**C - Esophageal dysmotility** - Esophageal dysmotility is a complication of localized systemic sclerosis (SSc), which can manifest with fatigue, weakness, and joint stiffness/pain. However, in SSc, esophageal dysmotility is usually associated with other features of CREST syndrome (e.g., Raynaud phenomenon, sclerodactyly), none of which are seen here.

Image File: 971-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fec77adc6856.jpg

**D - Discoid rash** - A discoid rash is a clinical manifestation of discoid or systemic lupus erythematosus, which can manifest with constitutional symptoms, polyarthralgia, morning stiffness, and anemia. However, patients with lupus typically present with a distal, symmetrical polyarthritis that most commonly affects the joints of the fingers, wrists, and knees. Moreover, lupus typically affects women between 15 and 45 years of age.

Image File: 971-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dfa49d483e12.jpg

**F - Hand deformities** - Hand deformities are a complication of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), which typically manifests with symmetric polyarthralgia, morning stiffness, and constitutional symptoms. In addition, anemia and elevated ESR may also be seen. However, RA more commonly affects the joints of the fingers, wrists, and knees. Moreover, this patient's serum anti-CCP and rheumatoid factor antibody assays are negative, making RA unlikely.

Image File: 971-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60f6b8df13740.jpg

