### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Locate and remove tick** - Tick paralysis is a rare cause of ascending paralysis caused by a neurotoxin produced in the tick's salivary gland, which prevents acetylcholine release at the neuromuscular junction. Symptoms typically occur within 2–7 days. Patients present with very rapid ascending paralysis (over 24–48 hours) and ataxia, though mental status remains intact. The treatment simply consists of removing the tick and administering supportive measures (e.g., assisted breathing). Following tick removal, patients usually recover completely within 24 hours.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform enzyme‑linked immunosorbent assay** - Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) is used in the diagnosis of many infectious diseases such as Lyme disease. The patient's occupation certainly puts him at risk for Lyme disease, but the disease is not associated with ascending paralysis.

**B - Administer doxycycline** - Doxycycline may be used in the treatment of many tick-borne infections such as Lyme disease, ehrlichiosis, and Rocky Mountain spotted fever. The patient's occupation certainly puts him at risk for these conditions. However, none of them are associated with acute ascending paralysis.

**C - Administer botulism antitoxin** - Botulism is a rare toxin-mediated disease caused by Clostridium botulinum. Transmission usually occurs through spores in canned foods or contamination of wounds. Patients present with descending paralysis and bilateral cranial neuropathies; life-threatening complications can occur if the phrenic nerve is affected. Treatment usually consists of botulism antitoxin and supportive measures.

**D - Perform lumbar puncture** - A lumbar puncture can be useful in diagnosing several neurological diseases, including Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) and meningitis. GBS is an immune-mediated disease that most commonly occurs following upper respiratory and gastrointestinal infections, particularly Campylobacter jejuni infections. This patient has no history of recent illness. Instead, his occupation, particularly in the Pacific Northwest, puts him at risk for tick paralysis, which can easily be diagnosed before more invasive diagnostic workup is initiated. GBS is probably the most important differential diagnosis in this patient, as it often presents with very similar symptoms. Initial symptoms often consist of back and limb pain, as well as paresthesias affecting the distal extremities. Patients then develop ascending paralysis that can lead to respiratory insufficiency. However, while ascending paralysis in GBS can occur rapidly, it usually progresses over days or weeks; progression of symptoms within hours, as seen here, would not be expected in GBS.

**F - Obtain cranial MRI** - A cranial MRI can be helpful in diagnosing several neurological disorders, including multiple sclerosis (MS). Patients with MS can present with a variety of symptoms such as autonomic dysfunctions, cerebellar involvement, cranial nerve palsies, and spasticity. Although a family history of MS in combination with new-onset neurological symptoms should certainly raise suspicion of MS, acute ascending paralysis is uncommon and suggests a different disease.

