### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Splenic rupture** - Splenic rupture secondary to splenomegaly is a rare but severe complication of IM. Since splenic rupture is most likely to occur 2–21 days after symptom onset, patients should avoid physical activity for at least 21 days after initial symptoms develop and avoid contact sports (e.g., football, wrestling) for at least 4 weeks. If patients have signs of potential splenic rupture (e.g., left upper quadrant pain, Kehr sign), imaging with ultrasound or CT is indicated. The management of IM-associated splenic rupture is the same as that for traumatic splenic rupture and depends on the extent of the injury: Hemodynamically stable patients with low-grade splenic lesions can often be treated conservatively (observation and symptomatic treatment) whereas hemodynamically unstable patients or those with high-grade splenic lesions require surgery.

Image File: 973-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a85ad1f138ba.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Burkitt lymphoma** - Burkitt lymphoma (BL) is an aggressive B-cell lymphoma that can develop following EBV infection. However, BL is more common in children and is most prevalent in individuals living in equatorial Africa and South America. A different complication is much more likely to occur in this patient.

**C - Glomerulonephritis** - Glomerulonephritis can develop as a result of group A streptococcal pharyngitis, which manifests with fever, sore throat, dysphagia, and tonsillar exudates, all of which are seen here. However, splenomegaly and a positive heterophile antibody test indicate IM, which does not lead to glomerulonephritis.

**D - Acute lymphocytic leukemia** - EBV infection is associated with several malignancies such as Burkitt lymphoma, Hodgkin lymphoma, and nasopharyngeal carcinoma. It is not, however, associated with acute lymphocytic leukemia.

**E - Oropharyngeal carcinoma** - Oropharyngeal carcinoma is associated with human papillomavirus infection (HPV types 16, 17, 31, and 33), not IM. IM is caused by EBV infection, which is associated with an increased risk of nasopharyngeal carcinoma, not oropharyngeal carcinoma.

