### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Oral prednisone and temporal artery biopsy** - Glucocorticoids are the first-line treatment for patients with suspected giant cell arteritis. Medium doses of oral glucocorticoids, such as prednisone, are indicated in patients without signs of acute ischemic organ damage (e.g., impaired vision and/or neurologic deficits), such as this patient. While typical clinical findings (e.g., new headache in a patient ≥ 50 years) and lab values (e.g., ESR ≥ 50 mm/h) can support the diagnosis of giant cell arteritis, temporal artery biopsy is still required for confirmation, but should not delay treatment.

Image File: 974-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6040ff5ae97f9.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous methylprednisolone only** - Intravenous methylprednisolone is the preferred treatment in patients with ischemic complications of giant cell arteritis, such as vision loss or stroke, none of which are displayed by this woman.

**B - Oral prednisone only** - Although oral glucocorticoids are indicated in this patient with suspected uncomplicated giant cell arteritis, treatment alone is not sufficient, because the diagnosis has yet to be confirmed.

**C - Intravenous methylprednisolone and temporal artery biopsy** - Although temporal artery biopsy is the gold standard in diagnosing giant cell arteritis and should be performed in this patient, this option is not the best course of management. Intravenous high-dose glucocorticoids, e.g., methylprednisolone, are generally reserved for patients with suspected GCA who present with neurologic deficits secondary to ischemic organ damage (e.g., changes in vision, oscillating scotoma). Because this patient has uncomplicated GCA, however, a different treatment option is preferred.

**E - Reassurance and follow-up** - If giant cell arteritis is left untreated, severe complications, such as permanent loss of vision, stroke, or thoracic aortitis may occur, meaning that prompt confirmation and mangement are required.

**F - Temporal artery biopsy only** - Temporal artery biopsy is the gold standard in diagnosing giant cell arteritis and should be performed whenever GCA is suspected. However, without the appropriate treatment, the disease may progress and cause severe, ischemic complications, such as temporary (e.g., amaurosis fugax) or permanent loss of vision and/or cerebral ischemia (e.g., stroke or transient ischemic attack).

