### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - PPD skin test** - Testing for latent tuberculosis, e.g., with a PPD skin test, should be performed in any patient prior to starting a TNF-α inhibitor. TNF-α plays an important role in the sequestration of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in granulomas; inhibition of TNF-α results in the breakdown of granulomas and release of mycobacteria, causing reactivation of latent TB. This patient with ankylosing spondylitis should be screened for latent TB prior to starting therapy and be monitored during therapy for new signs of infection.

Image File: 975-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d80dff3442a9.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Complete blood count** - Among immunosuppressant medications, azathioprine, mycophenolate mofetil, and methotrexate can cause bone marrow suppression and pancytopenia, and require close monitoring of CBC. While used to treat other autoimmune conditions (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, SLE, etc), none of these medications are recommended for ankylosing spondylitis. This patient should be started on a TNF-a inhibitor, and a CBC prior to treatment is not indicated.

**B - Pulmonary function test** - Routine PFTs to evaluate for pulmonary fibrosis should be considered in patients on medications known to cause pulmonary toxicity (e.g., methotrexate, certain chemotherapy agents, amiodarone). This patient has ankylosing spondylitis, however, and should be started on a TNF-a inhibitor. TNF-α inhibitors are not associated with development of pulmonary fibrosis.

**C - Eye examination** - Comprehensive ophthalmologic evaluation is recommended in patients with long-term use of hydroxychloroquine because of the risk of developing irreversible retinopathy. Hydroxychloroquine is used for a variety of conditions (e.g., malaria treatment and prophylaxis, rheumatoid arthritis), but it is not used for ankylosing spondylitis. Ophthalmologic side effects are rare with TNF-α inhibitors, and an eye examination is not necessary prior to initiating therapy.

**D - Discontinue allopurinol** - Allopurinol interacts with many different medications, and concurrent use of allopurinol and azathioprine can lead to toxic accumulation of azathioprine. While azathioprine is used to treat many autoimmune conditions (e.g., SLE, myasthenia gravis), it is not used in ankylosing spondylitis. There is no known interaction between TNF-α inhibitors and allopurinol.

**E - Creatinine measurement** - Among immunosuppressant medications, calcineurin inhibitors (e.g., tacrolimus, cyclosporine) and methotrexate are potentially nephrotoxic and require routine creatinine measurement prior to and during therapy. This patient's ankylosing spondylitis should be treated with a TNF-α inhibitor; they are not known to be nephrotoxic.

**G - Liver function test** - Among immunosuppressant medications, methotrexate and azathioprine are potentially hepatotoxic and require routine LFT measurement prior to and during therapy. This patient should be started on a TNF-α inhibitor for his ankylosing spondylitis. While TNF-α inhibitors are associated with an increased risk of hepatitis B reactivation, screening LFTs prior to therapy is not indicated.

