### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Acute rheumatic fever** - Acute rheumatic fever (ARF) is a nonsuppurative complication that occurs 2–4 weeks following an untreated infection with group A beta-hemolytic streptococci (GAS), particularly pharyngitis. To diagnose rheumatic fever, two major or one major plus two minor Jones criteria are required. Major criteria include arthritis (migratory polyarthritis primarily involving the large joints), carditis (pancarditis, including valvulitis), Sydenham chorea (CNS involvement), subcutaneous nodules, and erythema marginatum. Minor criteria are arthralgia, fever, ↑ acute phase reactants (ESR, CRP), and a prolonged PR interval on ECG. This patient meets 2 major and 3 minor criteria, which means that a diagnosis of rheumatic fever can be made.

Image File: 976-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60782e0877be6.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Septic arthritis** - Septic arthritis occurs most often in patients with prosthetic joint implants and underlying diseases (e.g., immunosuppression, diabetes mellitus), as well as following joint interventions (e.g., surgery, intra-articular injections). Although septic arthritis could explain this patient's pain, erythema, swelling, and a restricted range of motion, the condition is usually limited to a single joint. Synovial fluid analysis would also typically show yellow or green fluid with > 50,000 WBC/μl and ≥ 75% polymorphonuclear leukocytes, as well as low glucose levels and a positive culture.

**C - Acute lymphoblastic leukemia** - Acute lymphoblastic leukemia is the most common malignant disease in children and manifests with fever, fatigue, bleeding (e.g., epistaxis), and bone pain that can mimic arthralgia, as in the patient here. Although it most commonly occurs between 2–5 years of age, it is possible in adolescents. However, additional symptoms would be expected, including night sweats, pallor, abdominal pain (due to hepatomegaly and splenomegaly), headaches, and/or painless lymphadenopathy. Furthermore, swelling of the joint and leukocytes on synovial fluid analysis would indicate articular disease as the cause of arthralgia and not bone pain.

**D - Infective endocarditis** - Infective endocarditis (IE) could explain this patient's constitutional symptoms of fever, malaise, arthralgia, and elevated ESR, but cardiac manifestations (e.g., a new heart murmur, signs of progressive heart failure) and other extracardiac manifestations (e.g., splinter hemorrhages, Janeway lesions) would also be expected. Bacterial arthritis due to IE is rare but can occur as a result of bacteremia. However, synovial fluid analysis usually shows yellow or green fluid with > 50,000 WBC/μl and ≥ 75% polymorphonuclear leukocytes, as well as low glucose levels and a positive culture.

**E - Lyme disease** - The second stage of Lyme disease (3–10 weeks after infection with Borrelia burgdorferi via tick bite) is characterized by migratory arthralgia and arthritis, as in this patient. However, further findings such as neurologic symptoms (e.g., facial nerve palsy) and cardiac arrhythmias are often present that are not seen in this patient. Additionally, in contrast to the synovial fluid analysis in this vignette, joint aspiration usually shows yellow and cloudy fluid and a leukocyte count that is often highly elevated with > 50% polymorphonuclear leukocytes. This patient's recent camping trip puts him at an increased risk for Lyme disease. Many patients with Lyme disease do not recall a tick bite and, even though ∼ 80% of the infected individuals develop erythema migrans around the bite, the rash is often not noticed if it affects the scalp or the back of the patient. Therefore, if Lyme disease is suspected, serologic testing should be performed even if the patient does not recall a tick bite or initial symptoms.

**F - Kawasaki disease** - Kawasaki disease is an acute vasculitis that most commonly affects children under the age of 5 years, making it an unlikely diagnosis in a 14-year-old boy. Kawasaki disease also causes fever, but diagnosis requires the presence of other findings, such as erythema and edema of the hands and feet, a polymorphous rash, conjunctivitis, cervical lymphadenopathy, and oropharyngeal mucositis (cracked red lips and a strawberry tongue), which are not present in this case.

**G - Juvenile idiopathic arthritis** - Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) presents before the age of 16 years with arthritis in ≥ 1 joint for ≥ 6 weeks and is associated with constitutional symptoms (e.g., fever, malaise), extra-articular manifestations (e.g., rheumatoid nodules on the elbows), and an elevated ESR, as in this patient. Synovial fluid analysis is not routinely performed but the results are usually similar to those reported in this case. However, this patient's symptoms have only persisted for 5 days and his recent episode of untreated pharyngitis makes a different diagnosis more likely.

