### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Exertional heatstroke** - This patient presents with a body temperature > 40ºC and CNS dysfunction (i.e., altered mental status) following strenuous physical exercise, which indicates exertional heatstroke. This condition typically affects individuals who perform strenuous physical exercise in the heat (e.g., military personnel, athletes). Other common manifestations include signs of dehydration (e.g., dry mucous membranes) and consequent hypovolemia (e.g., hypotension, tachycardia), tachypnea, and tender muscles, all of which are seen in this patient. Acute kidney injury is present in around 30% of cases and is caused by both dehydration and rhabdomyolysis, which manifests with increased levels of lactate dehydrogenase and creatine kinase, as seen here. This patient's thrombocytopenia and altered coagulation studies might indicate incipient disseminated intravascular coagulation.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Septic shock** - Septic shock manifests with fever, hypotension, tachycardia, tachypnea, and altered mental status, all of which are seen here. In addition, patients with septic shock can present with leukocytosis, elevated creatinine (due to acute kidney injury), and thrombocytopenia along with altered coagulation studies (due to disseminated intravascular coagulation). This patient, however, has no history of infection, making septic shock unlikely.

**C - Thyroid storm** - Thyroid storm typically manifests with hyperthermia, tachycardia, hypotension, and altered mental status, all of which are seen here. However, this patient has no history of thyroid disease and no risk factor for developing this condition (e.g., surgery, severe infection, exogenous iodine intake from contrast media).

**D - Heat exhaustion** - Heat exhaustion can manifest with increased body temperature, signs of dehydration (e.g., dry mucous membranes) and consequent hypovolemia (i.e., tachycardia, hypotension), and tender muscles following strenuous physical exercise in the heat, similar to what is seen here. However, in heat exhaustion, the core body temperature does not typically exceed 40°C (104°F) and there is no CNS dysfunction (e.g., altered mental status, delirium). Moreover, this patient presents with dry skin whereas heat exhaustion is typically associated with profuse diaphoresis.

**E - Exercise-associated hyponatremia** - Exercise-associated hyponatremia (EAH) typically occurs in individuals who perform intense physical activity, and it can manifest with loss of consciousness and altered mental status, similar to what is seen in this patient. The condition is caused by increased fluid intake, persistent secretion of ADH, and sodium loss via diaphoresis. However, EAH does not manifest with hyperthermia.

**F - Serotonin syndrome** - Serotonin syndrome manifests with hyperthermia and altered mental status, both of which are seen here. In addition, this patient is taking fluoxetine, the excessive ingestion of which can cause serotonin syndrome. However, patients with this syndrome typically present with features of neuromuscular excitability (e.g., hypertonia, hyperreflexia, myoclonus) and autonomic manifestations (e.g., hypertension and tachycardia, diaphoresis, mydriasis).

