### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Multiple myeloma** - Multiple myeloma (MM) is often complicated by AL amyloidosis, which causes widespread protein deposition in several organ systems. Restrictive cardiomyopathy (due to AL in the heart) and macroglossia (due to AL in the tongue) are typical manifestations. Restrictive cardiomyopathy from amyloidosis most commonly presents as HFpEF with low-voltage on ECG and macroglossia can cause obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (choking sensation), as seen here. The massively increased ESR and the presence of “myeloma-defining events” (Hb < 10 g/dL, serum creatinine > 2 mg/dL) are consistent with MM. Serum protein electrophoresis is the best initial test to detect monoclonal gammopathy in both conditions, but bone marrow biopsy and a positive tissue amyloid stain are required to confirm the diagnosis of MM and AL amyloidosis, respectively.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Endocardial fibroelastosis** - Endocardial fibroelastosis can cause restrictive cardiomyopathy, but it most commonly affects infants in the first year of life and would not explain the recent development of symptoms in this patient or the finding of macroglossia.

**B - Systemic sclerosis** - Systemic sclerosis can result in restrictive cardiomyopathy. However, this condition typically causes patchy myocardial fibrosis leading to systolic ventricular dysfunction or, more often, diastolic ventricular dysfunction. Systemic sclerosis can also present with esophageal hypomotility; although this patient reports a choking sensation, her presentation is more consistent with paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea due to heart failure or OSAS due to macroglossia given that she wakes up at night and her symptoms are not postprandial. Characteristic facial features in patients with systemic sclerosis include mask-like facies, a shortened frenulum, and microstomia accompanied by characteristic perioral wrinkles rather than macroglossia.

**D - Hemochromatosis** - Cardiac involvement of hemochromatosis typically presents with dilated cardiomyopathy, although it can also cause restrictive cardiomyopathy. About 50% of patients with hemochromatosis develop diabetes mellitus from accumulation of iron in the pancreas. However, this patient lacks other typical clinical manifestations of hemochromatosis, including skin pigmentation and liver disease. Moreover, this diagnosis does not explain the finding of macroglossia.

**E - Rheumatoid arthritis** - Cardiac manifestations of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are uncommon extra-articular manifestations and do not include restrictive cardiomyopathy but rather pericarditis and myocarditis. This patient does not have signs of myocarditis or pericarditis, such as fever or chest pain, and these conditions would not explain the tongue findings. Like other chronic inflammatory conditions, RA can also cause reactive amyloidosis in rare cases, which typically presents with renal and gastrointestinal involvement. Unlike another form of amyloidosis, macroglossia and restrictive cardiomyopathy would not be expected in reactive amyloidosis.

**F - Viral myocarditis** - Viral myocarditis can cause acute heart failure and an elevated ESR, both of which are present here. Although myocarditis may result in dilative cardiomyopathy with a reduced ejection fraction, restrictive cardiomyopathy with preserved ejection fraction is not typical. If the pericardium is involved (perimyocarditis), pericardial effusions can lead to low-voltage on ECG; however, echocardiography shows no pericardial effusion here. Moreover, myocarditis commonly presents with constitutional symptoms (e.g., fever, fatigue, myalgia), new evidence of cardiac arrhythmias (e.g., sinus tachycardia, concave ST-segment elevations), and chest pain. Finally, this diagnosis is not consistent with the findings of macroglossia, anemia, and elevated serum creatinine.

