### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - MRI of the lumbar spine** - MRI is a first-line test for diagnosing disc herniation with associated radiculopathy. In patients with progressive or severe motor deficits, saddle anesthesia, urinary retention, or bilateral symptoms (seen in this patient), an MRI is recommended to confirm the diagnosis. Progressive neurologic deficits should raise concern, and they may require emergency surgical correction; rapid assessment of the lesion is required.

Image File: 980-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5272a95b94913.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - X-ray of the lumbar spine** - Lumbar x-ray is the first-line test for patients with acute lower back pain if vertebral fracture is suspected (e.g., history of osteoporosis). This patient does not have any significant risk factors for osteoporosis (e.g., elderly, chronic glucocorticoid use, or post-menopausal female), nor does he have a history of significant trauma (e.g., fall from height), making vertebral fracture unlikely.

**B - Erythrocyte sedimentation rate** - Erythrocyte sedimentation rate is a nonspecific marker of inflammation. An epidural abscess or bone metastases would cause an elevated ESR and could present with acute back pain and L4 radiculopathy. However, the association between heavy lifting and the onset of symptoms in this patient suggests an acute, mechanical mechanism of injury. Additionally, this patient's lack of risk factors (e.g., history of cancer or immunosuppression), fever, or other constitutional symptoms makes infection or malignancy unlikely. Finally, an elevated ESR would only suggest an inflammatory process and would not support any specific diagnosis, so it would be unlikely to significantly alter acute patient management.

**D - CT scan of the abdomen** - Abdominal CT scan is a first-line test to detect urolithiasis, which typically causes colicky, unilateral flank pain that is associated with dysuria and/or hematuria. This patient has none of these signs, and urolithiasis would also not explain his neurologic symptoms.

Image File: 980-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_53028941e8a21.jpg

**E - Therapeutic exercise regimen** - Therapeutic exercise (i.e., physical therapy) is part of conservative therapy for muscle strain or uncomplicated disc herniation. This patient's progressive neurologic symptoms and motor weakness should raise concern of a complicated disc herniation. Exercise could worsen this condition, so complicated disease should be ruled out first in this patient.

**F - Ibuprofen administration and follow-up in 2 months** - Analgesia (e.g., ibuprofen) and follow-up is part of conservative therapy for muscle strain or uncomplicated disc herniation. This patient's progressive bilateral neurologic symptoms and motor weakness should, however, raise concern of complicated disc herniation, so further investigation is required before conservative treatment would be indicated.

**G - PSA measurement** - PSA measurement may be part of the initial workup of a patient with suspected prostate cancer. Although prostate cancer can metastasize to the vertebrae and cause acute back pain, PSA is nonspecific and would not confirm a diagnosis of prostate cancer. This patient's lack of risk factors (e.g., history of prostate cancer or urinary symptoms) and other constitutional symptoms make prostate cancer unlikely. Moreover, the association between heavy lifting and the onset of symptoms in this patient suggests an acute, mechanical mechanism of injury.

