### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Radial nerve** - Radial nerve injury is the most common complication associated with humerus mid-shaft fractures due to the radial nerve's proximity to the humerus shaft. It is typically associated with wrist drop, decreased finger extensor strength, and loss of sensation over the dorsal hand and forearm. Grip strength can also be decreased through impaired wrist extension, as seen in this patient, but the ability to make a fist is not affected.

Image File: 981-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cc2fcc0aa3fa.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Median nerve** - A median nerve palsy would result in decreased grip strength, as seen here, but the patient would also be unable to make a fist because the muscles that control thumb opposition (thenar muscles) and flexion of the index and middle fingers (flexor digitorum superficialis, lateral belly of the flexor digitorum profundus) would also be paralyzed. In addition, median nerve palsy is typically associated with supracondylar fractures rather than a mid-shaft fracture of the humerus.

**C - Radial artery** - The radial artery is unlikely to be injured by a mid-shaft fracture of the humerus because it originates below the cubital fossa as a terminal branch of the brachial artery.

Image File: 981-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_540f116b927cd.jpg

**D - Brachial artery** - Brachial artery injury is a possible complication of humerus fractures, but is more likely to be injured in a supracondylar fracture (brachial artery runs along the anteromedial aspect of the humerus) than a mid-shaft fracture as seen in this patient. Acute limb ischemia due to brachial artery injury can cause distal weakness (e.g., decreased grip strength). However, paralysis due to acute limb ischemia is usually associated with paresthesias, which are not reported by this patient. A different structure is more likely to be injured in this patient.

**E - Ulnar nerve** - An ulnar nerve palsy would result in decreased grip strength, as seen here, but the patient would also be unable to make a fist because the muscles that control flexion of the little and ring fingers (medial belly of the flexor digitorum profundus) would also be paralyzed. In addition, ulnar nerve palsy is typically associated with fractures of the medial epicondyle of the humerus rather than a mid-shaft fracture of the humerus.

**F - Musculocutaneous nerve** - Isolated musculocutaneous nerve injury is rare and typically occurs as a result of trauma from chest compression or shoulder dislocation. Although such injuries can occur in motor vehicle accidents, they would manifest with impaired elbow flexion, not with decreased grip strength.

