### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Malignancy** - Subacute progressive lumbar back pain and a weakened urinary stream in a patient > 50 years of age should raise suspicion for advanced-stage prostate cancer with bony metastasis. Prostate cancer is frequently associated with skeletal metastases, with the spine being the most common location. Accordingly, some patients present with lower back pain as the initial manifestation. Red flags for metastatic bone disease include a history of cancer, advanced age, unexplained weight loss, and bone pain that does not improve after one month. Besides pain, which commonly occurs at night and exacerbates with movement, patients with metastatic bone disease can present with pathologic fractures, hypercalcemia, and neurological deficits due to spinal cord compression.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Lumbar spinal stenosis** - Lower back pain is a common manifestation of lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS), a condition that mostly affects individuals > 60 years of age. LSS typically causes bilateral radiating pain to the buttocks and/or legs that is exacerbated by activities involving lumbar extension (e.g., standing, walking downhill) and relieved by sitting or lying down (i.e., lumbar flexion), which has not been reported by this patient. Furthermore, he does not have typical symptoms of LSS, such as cramping, numbness, weakness, or tingling in the legs. While LSS can rarely lead to urinary retention symptoms secondary to cauda equina syndrome, this patient's normal sensorimotor function makes such a diagnosis unlikely.

**C - Osteoporosis** - Individuals with osteoporosis have an increased susceptibility to pathological vertebral compression fractures. These fractures may manifest with lower back pain and point tenderness, both of which are seen here. However, a more acute presentation would be expected in a fracture. Moreover, osteoporosis most commonly affects postmenopausal women, individuals > 70 years of age, and individuals with risk factors such as long-term steroid therapy. While vertebral compression fractures can rarely lead to urinary retention symptoms secondary to cauda equina syndrome, this patient's normal sensorimotor function makes such a diagnosis unlikely.

**D - Spinal epidural abscess** - Subacute lower back pain worsened by palpation, which is seen here, is a typical manifestation of a spinal epidural abscess (SEA). However, SEA is commonly associated with further symptoms, such as fever, malaise, and, eventually, neurologic deficits (secondary to spinal cord compression). Moreover, this patient has no risk factors for this condition (e.g., IV drug use, recent invasive spinal procedures, immunosuppression). While SEA can rarely lead to urinary retention symptoms secondary to cauda equina syndrome, this patient's normal sensorimotor function makes such a diagnosis unlikely.

**E - Disc herniation** - Lumbar disc herniation can manifest with severe lower back pain, which is seen in this patient. However, disc herniation typically manifests with an acute stabbing pain that radiates to the legs and is associated with neurological deficits, such as paresthesia, loss of deep tendon reflexes, and muscle weakness, none of which are seen here. Moreover, disc herniation is usually triggered by physical exertion (e.g., bending, heavy lifting), which this patient has not reported. While a large posteromedial disc herniation can lead to urinary retention symptoms secondary to cauda equina syndrome, this patient's normal sensorimotor function makes such a diagnosis unlikely.

**F - Lumbar strain** - Lumbar muscle strain is the most common cause of lower back pain. It can manifest with lower back pain that is most intense with movement, reproducible on palpation, and not associated with sensory or motor dysfunction, as seen here. Nocturnal pain and a weakened urinary stream, however, are not associated with lumbar strain. Lack of improvement after 6 weeks of therapy with NSAIDs should further raise suspicion for a nonmuscular cause of the pain. Moreover, lumbar muscle strain is usually triggered by physical exertion (e.g., heavy lifting), which this patient has not reported.

