### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - X-ray of the spine** - Patients sustaining calcaneus fractures due to a fall from a height are at risk of high-energy axial loading injuries, such as compression fractures of the neck or of the femur and lumbar vertebrae. For this reason, x-ray of the thoracolumbar spine is required.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - MRI of the right ankle** - Although a MRI might provide more information about the fracture (which may be useful for deciding on a treatment approach, especially in the case of an intra-articular fracture) and any associated soft tissue damage, there is a different intervention that should take precedence.

**B - CT scan of the right ankle** - Although a CT scan might provide more information about the fracture (which may be useful for deciding on a treatment approach, especially in the case of an intra-articular fracture), there is a different intervention that should take precedence.

**C - Reassurance and follow-up in 2 weeks** - This patient sustained a high-energy trauma injury, which warrants further study and treatment.

**D - Long leg cast** - A long leg cast may be indicated for some fractures, particularly of the distal femur, patella, tibia, and/or fibula, none of which are the case in this patient.

**E - Open reduction and internal fixation** - Open reduction and internal fixation are indicated in cases of displaced, open, or pathologic fractures, or fractures involving neurovascular compromise, none of which are the case in this patient.

**G - Broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy** - Broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy is required in the case of an open fracture, which this patient does not have.

