### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Regular monofilament testing** - Diabetes mellitus is often complicated by vascular and neuropathic changes that most commonly affect the distal extremities. These changes are an important cause of morbidity in diabetic patients because they usually result in complications like diabetic foot ulcers and foot deformities, including Charcot foot, as seen here. Regular foot examination should be routinely performed in every diabetic patient to assess for possible complications of diabetes (e.g., ulcers, deformities) or possible risk factors for complications (e.g., poor nail care, infections, calluses, inappropriate footwear) and must include inspection, monofilament testing, and assessment of pedal pulses. Regular monofilament testing allows the early detection of diabetic neuropathy and thereby reduces the likelihood of further complications.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Smoking cessation** - Smoking is a known risk factor for rheumatoid arthritis (RA), which can manifest with recurrent joint swelling and decreased range of motion and joint deformities, similar to what is seen in this patient. Her positive family history is also a risk factor for developing RA. However, RA typically manifests with symmetrical pain and swelling of metacarpophalangeal and/or proximal interphalangeal joints; unilateral involvement of foot joints is very rare. Furthermore, patients with RA typically show an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, which is not the case here.

Image File: 987-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60f6b8df13740.jpg

**C - Calcium and vitamin D supplementation** - Calcium and vitamin D supplementation might be indicated for osteoporosis prophylaxis, especially in postmenopausal women and older adults, such as this patient. However, calcium and vitamin D supplementation has no role in the prevention of diabetic arthropathy.

**D - Reduced meat intake** - Reducing meat intake is one of the measures to prevent acute gout flare, which can manifest with redness, swelling, warmth, and decreased range of motion of the affected joint, similar to what is seen in this patient. Furthermore, recurrent gout attacks can result in chronic gouty arthritis, in which degenerative changes similar to those in this patient can be seen on x-ray. However, acute gout flare is typically accompanied by severe acute pain, and affected individuals typically have elevated serum uric acid levels, neither of which is seen here. Moreover, this patient has no history of recurrent gouty arthritis.

**E - Prophylactic antibiotic therapy** - Prophylactic antibiotic therapy is indicated in recurrent cellulitis, which can manifest with tissue swelling, erythema, and warmth. Furthermore, this patient has type 2 diabetes mellitus, which is a known risk factor for recurrent cellulitis. However, cellulitis is associated with pain, tenderness, systemic symptoms (e.g., fever, malaise), and leukocytosis, none of which is seen in this patient. Moreover, this patient has no history of episodes of cellulitis.

