### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - A** - In septic arthritis caused by prosthetic joint infection, synovial fluid tends to appear opaque due to the buildup of dead leukocytes. Other characteristics include a WBC count of over 50,000/μL and a distribution of PMNs over 75%. Furthermore, cultures are usually positive, glucose levels are much lower than serum levels due to the glycolytic activity of bacteria, and crystals are not present. The most common organism responsible for early-onset prosthetic joint infection (< 3 months of placement) is S. aureus, which is consistent with the gram-positive, coagulase-positive cocci that are seen on culture in this synovial fluid analysis.

Image File: 989-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94d0adbf.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - B** - Synovial fluid with a reddish appearance, 200–2000 WBCs/μL, negative culture, normal glucose levels, and a lack of crystals is indicative of hemarthrosis. Hemarthrosis may be due to trauma, especially in hemophilic patients. It rarely occurs after surgery; if it does, however, symptoms manifest hours to days after the procedure. The onset of monoarticular joint pain 10 weeks after surgery that is seen in this patient is not suggestive of hemarthrosis.

**C - C** - A synovial fluid analysis showing elevated WBCs/μL, negative culture, low glucose levels, and negatively birefringent needle-shaped monosodium urate crystals is characteristic of gout. Although an acute gout flare may present with severe pain, redness, swelling, and disability of the affected joint as seen in this patient, symptoms usually reach their maximum severity within 12–24 hours. Complete resolution of an attack usually occurs within a few days. This patient has a longer, more indolent course of symptoms, however, making gout unlikely.

Image File: 989-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589c32ec039a7.jpg

**D - D** - Synovial fluid with a transparent appearance, mildly elevated WBCs/μL, normal percentage of PMNs, negative culture, and normal glucose is suggestive of a noninflammatory arthritis such as osteoarthritis. In 60% of cases of osteoarthritis, calcium phosphate crystals are present. Although osteoarthritis may present with joint pain and limited range of motion, it usually affects multiple joints. Furthermore, it is not typically associated with inflammatory symptoms such as redness and erythema, which are seen in this patient.

**E - E** - This is a normal synovial fluid analysis. This patient, who has inflammatory and infectious symptoms, would most likely have abnormal findings on synovial fluid analysis.

**F - F** - Synovial fluid with a WBC count of over 50,000/μL, a PMN distribution of over 75%, positive culture, low glucose, and absence of crystals is consistent with septic arthritis, which this patient likely has. The culture result of a gram-positive, coagulase-negative cocci likely indicates infection with Staphylococcus epidermidis, which is commonly found on the skin and mucous membranes. It may cause infections of prosthetic devices due to its propensity to form biofilms. However, prosthetic joint infections caused by S. epidermidis tend to be delayed in onset (occurring between 3–12 months of placement).

**G - G** - Synovial fluid with elevated WBCs/μL, elevated PMNs, negative culture, low glucose levels, and rhomboid-shaped, positively birefringent calcium pyrophosphate crystals is characteristic of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystal deposition disease (pseudogout). Although pseudogout may present in elderly patients with sudden-onset monoarticular and inflammatory joint pain, as seen in this patient, attacks are limited to a few days and are usually provoked by trauma, surgery, or severe medical illness. This patient's symptoms are not self-limited and began after a surgical procedure, making pseudogout an unlikely diagnosis.

Image File: 989-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59a0074210b03.jpg

