### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Cyclobenzaprine** - Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are indicated as first-line agents in the treatment of acute, uncomplicated back pain for the short-term relief of symptoms. If monotherapy with NSAIDs does not provide adequate pain relief or is contraindicated (e.g., peptic ulcer disease, renal dysfunction), nonbenzodiazepine muscle relaxants (e.g., cyclobenzaprine, tizanidine, metaxalone) can be used as an adjunctive or alternative treatment option. Selective COX-2 inhibitors (e.g., celecoxib) are another treatment option for patients who require gastric protection. In addition to pharmacological management, early mobilization, superficial application of heat, spinal manipulation, and massage are also recommended. Most cases of acute back pain self-resolve within 4–6 weeks.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Aspirin** - Aspirin is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that may be used for mild musculoskeletal pain. However, NSAIDs are contraindicated in patients with a history of peptic ulcer disease because they reduce the production of gastroprotective prostaglandins, increasing the risk of complications such as gastrointestinal bleeding and perforation.

**C - Oxycodone** - Opioids (e.g., oxycodone, tramadol) are not indicated as first-line therapy for patients with only mild musculoskeletal back pain. Instead, they are used in the treatment of severe or refractory back pain (e.g., tumor pain).

**D - Acetaminophen** - Acetaminophen is a centrally acting, non-opioid analgesic that is commonly used for pain relief. Although it can be used in patients who have contraindications to other analgesic medications (e.g., peptic ulcer disease), acetaminophen has limited efficacy for treating acute lower back pain and is no longer recommended.

**E - Ibuprofen** - Ibuprofen is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that may be used for mild musculoskeletal pain. However, NSAIDs are contraindicated in patients with a history of peptic ulcer disease because they reduce the production of gastroprotective prostaglandins, increasing the risk of complications such as gastrointestinal bleeding and perforation.

