### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Allopurinol** - This patient with a history of chronic gout has been adequately treated with NSAIDs for his acute gouty attacks. Given his repeated exacerbations (≥ 2 gout attacks during the past year), he should be started on urate-lowering therapy, which is also indicated in patients with evidence of tophaceous gout. Urate-lowering therapy should also be considered in patients with a first episode of acute gout who have hyperuricemia (> 9 mg/dL), advanced chronic kidney disease, or a history of urolithiasis. Allopurinol is the preferred first-line urate-lowering drug. Despite its therapeutic effect, it may also trigger an acute gout attack; to prevent this, antiinflammatory prophylaxis (colchicine, NSAIDs, or glucocorticoids) should be given to all patients during initiation of treatment. Other side effects of allopurinol include nausea and diarrhea.

Image File: 991-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fec78804a2fc.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Colchicine** - Colchicine can be used for treatment of acute gout attacks in case of contraindications to NSAIDs or oral glucocorticoids. Moreover, it can be given as antiinflammatory prophylaxis to all patients before initiating urate-lowering therapy, which can trigger an acute gout flare by dissolving and mobilizing preexisting urate crystal deposits. Colchicine can prevent an acute gout attack as this drug impairs leukocyte phagocytosis of urate crystals, thereby decreasing the chance of precipitation and acute exacerbation. However, it is ineffective in preventing long-term urate crystal accumulation and thus should be discontinued as soon as persistent normouricemia has been achieved with urate-lowering drugs.

**B - Probenecid** - Probenecid is a uricosuric agent. It is used as second-line therapy or in combination with the preferred agent in patients with chronic gout and multiple exacerbations to prevent gout attacks. Probenecid is mainly indicated for patients with underexcretion because it promotes renal elimination of uric acid.

**C - Aspirin** - Aspirin is not used to treat acute or chronic gout. At low-doses it has even been associated with an increased risk of gout attacks due to reduced renal excretion of uric acid. Therefore, aspirin should be avoided in this patient.

**D - Prednisolone** - Oral corticosteroids, such as prednisolone, can be used for acute gout attacks in case of contraindications or lack of response to NSAIDs. However, they do not play a role in the treatment of chronic gout or prophylaxis for acute gout attacks.

**E - Pegloticase** - Pegloticase is a uricase medication that catalyzes the breakdown of uric acid to allantoin. It is used as third-line therapy in patients with chronic gout and multiple exacerbations when the preferred drug does not sufficiently decrease uric acid levels.

