### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Torus fracture** - A torus fracture should be suspected in children who present with pain and swelling of the distal forearm after experiencing an axial force that causes impaction of the distal radius and/or ulna (e.g., fall on an outstretched hand, fall from a height), typically at the junction of the metaphysis and diaphysis where the bone is more porous. The periosteum in growing bones is thicker and stronger than in adults, which is why children are more prone to incomplete fractures (e.g., torus fractures). X-rays typically show mild or no angulation at the fracture site, disruption and bulging of the cortex on the side of the compressive force (concave side), and an intact convex side. Treatment consists of immobilization with a splint or a cast for 3–4 weeks.

Image File: 993-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f74335fa1c81.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Smith fracture** - Smith fractures commonly occur after a fall on the outstretched hand, but they are complete fractures and typically manifest with volar and radial displacement of the distal fragment after forced flexion, while this patient has an incomplete fracture without displacement after falling on an extended hand.

Image File: 993-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d35cdd2aa8a7.jpg

**B - Salter-Harris fracture** - Salter-Harris fractures are complete fractures through the physis and most frequently occur during growth spurts in puberty, with x-ray typically showing physeal widening. This child's age and incomplete fracture with metaphyseal bulging on x-ray indicate a different diagnosis.

Image File: 993-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fc7aee789f62.jpg

**D - Colles fracture** - Colles fractures commonly occur after a fall on the outstretched hand, but they are complete fractures and typically manifest with dorsal and radial displacement of the distal fragment. This patient, in turn, has an incomplete fracture without displacement.

Image File: 993-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d35d19a80f3d.jpg

**E - Greenstick fracture** - This patient's history of falling on an outstretched hand, wrist pain, swelling, and incomplete fracture pattern are potentially consistent with a greenstick fracture. However, greenstick fractures are the result of an axial force that causes bending of the distal radius or ulna, which is not seen in this patient. X-ray typically shows some angulation and disruption of the cortex and periosteum on the side of tension (convex side) with intact periosteum and cortex on the side of compression.

Image File: 993-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d90aea64c.jpg

