### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Prednisone therapy** - Corticosteroid therapy (e.g., with prednisone) is the treatment of choice for patients presenting with an acute lupus exacerbation. The dose and duration of treatment should be adapted to the severity of the exacerbation. In patients with mild to severe symptoms but no vital-organ involvement (i.e., patients with constitutional, hematologic, cutaneous, or musculoskeletal manifestations) as seen here, a short course of prednisone usually suffices. In severe cases with vital-organ involvement (e.g., patients with renal, pulmonary, or cardiac manifestations), high-dose corticoid therapy and additional immunosuppressants (such as mycophenolate, azathioprine, or cyclophosphamide) may be required.

Image File: 994-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dfa49d483e12.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ceftriaxone and azithromycin therapy** - Ceftriaxone and azithromycin therapy is the treatment of choice for disseminated gonococcal infection (DGI), which can also manifest with fever and polyarthralgia. However, an erythematous macular rash on sun-exposed areas of skin is not expected; the most common cutaneous manifestations of DGI are vesicular, pustular, or maculopapular lesions (possibly with a necrotic or hemorrhagic center) on the trunk and extremities. Moreover, this patient's consistent condom use makes this diagnosis less likely.

**B - Adalimumab therapy** - Adalimumab is indicated in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) with moderate or severe disease activity after 3 months of nonbiologic DMARD therapy (e.g., methotrexate). Although RA also manifests with fever, fatigue, and polyarthralgia, arthralgia in RA more commonly affects the metacarpophalangeal and proximal interphalangeal joints, none of which are affected here. Moreover, cutaneous manifestations of RA include nontender skin nodules but not an erythematous macular rash. This patient most likely has an acute exacerbation of SLE, for which TNF-α inhibitors are not currently indicated.

**C - Platelet transfusion** - Platelet transfusions are indicated in patients with thrombocytopenia accompanied by significant bleeding, platelet counts < 10,000/mm3 to 20,000/mm3, and/or prior to invasive procedures, none of which are seen here. Moreover, thrombocytopenia in patients with SLE is most often due to secondary immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), in which platelet transfusion is only indicated in cases of severe bleeding (e.g., gastrointestinal, intracranial). Specific treatment is not indicated and the platelet count will most likely increase while the acute exacerbation of SLE is being treated.

**D - Vancomycin therapy** - Vancomycin is used as empiric antibiotic therapy for septic arthritis when the synovial fluid's Gram stain discloses gram-positive cocci. Septic arthritis can also manifest with fever, joint pain, and restricted range of motion. However, septic arthritis is usually monoarticular and purulent, with signs of inflammation such as erythema and warmth over the affected joint.

**F - Colchicine therapy** - Colchicine is indicated as a second-line agent in the acute management of gout and pseudogout for patients who do not tolerate NSAIDs (e.g., patients with chronic kidney disease or gastrointestinal ulcers). Although acute gout/pseudogout can also affect the wrists and knees, they typically manifest with monoarthritis rather than polyarthritis. Moreover, affected joints typically show overlying erythema and are warm to the touch. Colchicine can be used in the management of patients with lupus-associated pericarditis. This patient's acute exacerbation of SLE, however, does not manifest with features of pericarditis.

