### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Frequent oral rinsing** - MRONJ is a rare but serious side effect of bisphosphonate therapy and is most commonly seen in high-dose IV administration in cancer patients, but it can also occur with oral administration (e.g., for osteoporosis). The underlying pathophysiology is not yet fully understood, but it is assumed that bisphosphonate's antiangiogenic effects in combination with the jaw's specific characteristics (e.g., high metabolism) play a role. Invasive dental procedures are a major risk factor for the development of MRONJ. Therefore, patient education and preventive measures, such as a comprehensive dental examination in conjunction with treatment of preexisting dental conditions (e.g., extraction of unrestorable teeth), are strongly encouraged prior to initiation of antiresorptive therapy. After the initiation of therapy, a daily oral care plan should be encouraged, entailing instructions on oral hygiene (e.g., daily oral rinsing, brushing, and flossing) as well as regular check-ups and cleanings.

Treatment of established MRONJ is mainly supportive and includes improved oral hygiene, antibiotic treatment, and limited debridement. Surgery should be avoided if possible.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Smoking cessation** - Smoking cessation should be recommended in patients receiving bisphosphonates because smoking is a possible risk factor for MRONJ. However, other risk factors are more strongly associated with the development of MRONJ, and there is another more effective measure for preventing this patient's adverse effect.

**B - Prophylactic antibiotic therapy** - Prophylactic antibiotic therapy can be used as a preventive measure in patients receiving bisphosphonate therapy prior to oral surgery and to prevent recurrence in already established MRONJ. In addition, antibiotic therapy is used in the treatment of MRONJ to promote healing. However, preventive antibiotic therapy is not generally indicated in patients receiving bisphosphonate therapy.

**C - Preprandial medication intake** - Preprandial medication intake (preferably in the morning 60 minutes before breakfast) is recommended in oral bisphosphonate therapy to enhance absorption. However, this strategy is not effective in preventing side effects such as MRONJ. The risk of other complications of oral bisphosphonate therapy, such as esophageal inflammation and reflux, can be minimized by swallowing bisphosphonates with a sufficient amount of water and maintaining an upright position for 30 minutes after medication intake.

**D - Calcium supplementation** - Calcium supplementation is commonly provided during bisphosphonate therapy to reduce the risk of hypocalcemia. However, calcium supplementation has not been shown to reduce the risk of MRONJ. Since calcium forms complexes with bisphosphonates, it can reduce absorption, and neither supplements nor food should be taken within 60 minutes of oral bisphosphonate administration.

