### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Dual-energy x-ray bone absorptiometry** - Dual-energy x-ray bone absorptiometry is a screening test used to diagnose osteoporosis. This screening test is usually reserved for women over the age of 65. However, women under the age of 65 who are at an increased risk of osteoporosis, such as this patient, should also receive screening. Risk factors for osteoporosis include a family history of hip fracture, excessive alcohol consumption, smoking, and a low BMI. This patient is up-to-date on all other recommended screenings and preventive measures based on her age and risk factors.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Influenza vaccination** - Influenza vaccination is recommended once per year for adults and children > 6 months of age. This patient was vaccinated 6 months ago, so there is no need to revaccinate until the next flu season arrives.

**B - Pap smear** - A Pap smear is recommended every 3 years until 65 years of age to screen for cervical cancer. Since her Pap smear 2 years ago was normal, there is no indication to perform the test again at this point in time.

**D - Abdominal ultrasonography** - Abdominal ultrasonography is used to screen for abdominal aortic aneurysm. This screening measure is only recommended in men 65–75 years of age who have a smoking history. Currently, there are no abdominal aortic aneurysm screening recommendations for women.

**E - Colonoscopy** - The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening for colorectal cancer in all asymptomatic adults between 45 and 75 years of age who have an average risk (e.g., no inflammatory bowel disease, adenomatous polyps, or family history of an inherited cancer syndrome). The previously recommended age to start screening was 50 years. Colonoscopy every 10 years is an appropriate strategy. Because this patient had her last colonoscopy 2 years ago, which was normal, and lacks symptoms suggestive of colorectal cancer (e.g., weight loss, hematochezia), a colonoscopy is not indicated at this time.

**F - Low-dose chest CT** - Low-dose chest CT is used to screen for lung cancer in adults 50–80 years of age who have a smoking history ≥ 20 pack-years and either continue to smoke or quit less than 15 years ago. This woman only has a 9-pack-year smoking history and no other risk factors for lung cancer.

**G - Transesophageal echocardiography** - A soft S4 gallop does not warrant an echocardiogram in an elderly patient who is asymptomatic, as it most likely indicates age-related decreased ventricular compliance. Indications for echocardiogram include a palpable S4 or symptoms concerning for acute myocardial infarction (e.g., chest pain) or heart failure (e.g., dyspnea or lower extremity edema). Moreover, a transthoracic echocardiogram would be the most appropriate initial step in the workup of an abnormal S4 gallop.

