
### Correct Answer: C) Dobutamine echocardiography 

**Educational Objective:** Differentiate between pseudostenosis and true aortic stenosis.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with findings of low-flow, low-gradient aortic stenosis, the primary abnormality may be either severe ventricular dysfunction with pseudostenosis or critical aortic stenosis; dobutamine echocardiography is needed to distinguish between the two entities.

The most appropriate next step in management is dobutamine echocardiography. This patient has low-flow, low-gradient aortic stenosis. The primary abnormality may be either severe ventricular dysfunction with pseudostenosis or critical aortic stenosis. Severe ventricular dysfunction with diminished cardiac output leads to decreased opening forces on the aortic valve, and the valve area may be calculated to be low even though the valve is not anatomically severe (pseudostenosis). Dobutamine, an inotropic agent, can be used to increase cardiac output and differentiate between these two entities. Dobutamine will cause an increase in the aortic valve area in pseudostenosis, whereas in anatomically severe aortic stenosis, the aortic valve area will not significantly increase.
Aortic valve replacement should be considered for patients with anatomically severe aortic stenosis. This procedure is currently inappropriate for a patient in whom the diagnosis of severe aortic stenosis has not been established.
Coronary angiography is recommended before valve surgery in patients with severe valvular heart disease and a history of coronary artery disease, suspected myocardial ischemia, or left ventricular systolic dysfunction. These patients may require concomitant revascularization at the time of surgery. However, coronary angiography is indicated only in patients for whom valve surgery has been determined to be appropriate.
The 2016 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association/Heart Failure Society of America heart failure focused update recommends that valsartan-sacubitril be substituted for an ACE inhibitor or an angiotensin receptor blocker in patients with chronic symptomatic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (New York Heart Association functional class II or III) who have tolerated ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker therapy well. In this patient, differentiation of pseudostenosis from true aortic stenosis is most appropriate before initiating an increase in medical therapy.

**Bibliography**

O’Sullivan CJ, Praz F, Stortecky S, Windecker S, Wenaweser P. Assessment of low-flow, low-gradient, severe aortic stenosis: an invasive evaluation is required for decision making. EuroIntervention. 2014;10 Suppl U:U61-8. PMID: 25256333 doi:10.4244/EIJV10SUA9

This content was last updated in August 2018.