
### Correct Answer: C) Increase carvedilol 

**Educational Objective:** Treat new-onset heart failure with maximal β-blocker therapy.

#### **Key Point:** All patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction should be treated with an ACE inhibitor and a β-blocker; β-blocker dosage should be uptitrated every 2 to 4 weeks until the patient achieves a heart rate of approximately 60/min or has symptomatic hypotension.

The dosage of carvedilol should be increased in this patient with new-onset heart failure who is symptomatically improving with standard heart failure therapy. All patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction should be treated with an ACE inhibitor and a β-blocker, such as carvedilol, to control heart failure symptoms, improve left ventricular ejection fraction, and decrease mortality. Data suggest improved outcomes with higher dosages of β-blockers. Therefore, in patients with new-onset heart failure, it is generally reasonable to increase the β-blocker dosage every 2 to 4 weeks until the patient achieves a heart rate of approximately 60/min or has symptomatic hypotension. Volume status should always be assessed before initiation and uptitration of a β-blocker because patients with volume overload will experience dyspnea if the dosage is increased. Because this patient has a systolic blood pressure of 120 mm Hg, a heart rate of 84/min, and no evidence of volume overload, he should be able to tolerate an increase in the β-blocker dosage. Repeat echocardiography should be performed to assess for improvement or recovery of ejection fraction once the ACE inhibitor and β-blocker have been uptitrated to maximally tolerated dosages.
Digoxin reduces the incidence of hospitalizations in patients with symptomatic heart failure. This patient is asymptomatic; therefore, there is no reason to start digoxin at this time.
Hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate improve survival in patients who are Black and are already receiving maximal therapy for New York Heart Association functional class III or IV heart failure symptoms. This patient has New York Heart Association functional class I symptoms and is not yet taking optimal dosages of medical therapy; both the ACE inhibitor and β-blocker dosages should be uptitrated before other therapies are added to this patient's medication regimen.
Diuretics are the primary treatment for symptoms of heart failure associated with volume overload. In general, the lowest diuretic dosage that achieves euvolemia should be used. In this patient without evidence of fluid overload, there is no reason to increase the furosemide dosage.

**Bibliography**

Okwuosa IS, Princewill O, Nwabueze C, Mathews L, Hsu S, Gilotra NA, et al. The ABCs of managing systolic heart failure: past, present, and future. Cleve Clin J Med. 2016;83:753-765. PMID: 27726827 doi:10.3949/ccjm.83a.16006

This content was last updated in August 2018.