
### Correct Answer: D) Emergent pacing 

**Educational Objective:** Treat Mobitz type 2 second-degree atrioventricular block following ST-elevation myocardial infarction.

#### **Key Point:** Mobitz type 2 second-degree atrioventricular block is an uncommon but potentially life-threatening electrical complication of anterior myocardial infarction; temporary or permanent pacing is indicated in this setting.

This patient with Mobitz type 2 second-degree atrioventricular (AV) block following a large anterior myocardial infarction requires temporary pacing. In the peri-infarct setting, arrhythmias are common, and benign forms of vagally mediated heart block must be differentiated from more serious conduction abnormalities. Second-degree AV block is frequently seen with acute myocardial infarction. When progressive PR prolongation is observed before a blocked beat, second-degree Mobitz type 1 (Wenckebach) block is present. When the PR interval is constant before nonconducted P waves, the second-degree block is termed Mobitz type 2 block. When 2:1 block is present, Mobitz type 1 versus type 2 block may not be distinguishable with surface electrocardiography. Mobitz type 2 second-degree AV block is an uncommon but potentially life-threatening electrical complication of an anterior myocardial infarction. It usually represents a block lower in the conduction system and suggests significant conduction disease, likely resulting from ischemia and necrosis of the septum (along which the His-Purkinje system is located). Because of the high risk for progression to complete heart block, prompt implantation of a temporary or permanent pacemaker is indicated.
Atropine improves AV nodal conduction and quickens the sinus rate. In patients with Mobitz type 2 block, atropine may not alter conduction, and the degree of heart block may paradoxically worsen. Furthermore, this agent has a relatively short-lived effect and will not address the underlying pathology.
Cessation of β-blocker therapy alone will not improve conduction in this patient, as the pathology of Mobitz type 2 block is beyond the AV node. In contrast, Mobitz type 1 second-degree AV block is frequently seen with acute inferior myocardial infarction and may be associated with periods of complete heart block. Observation and withholding of AV nodal blocking agents is appropriate in that context, as the need for permanent pacing is extremely low with inferior myocardial infarction.
In the absence of chest pain or ST-segment elevations on electrocardiogram, urgent angiography is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Epstein AE, DiMarco JP, Ellenbogen KA, Estes NA 3rd, Freedman RA, Gettes LS, et al; American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines (Writing Committee to Revise the ACC/AHA/NASPE 2002 Guideline Update for Implantation of Cardiac Pacemakers and Antiarrhythmia Devices). ACC/AHA/HRS 2008 guidelines for device-based therapy of cardiac rhythm abnormalities: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines (Writing Committee to Revise the ACC/AHA/NASPE 2002 Guideline Update for Implantation of Cardiac Pacemakers and Antiarrhythmia Devices) developed in collaboration with the American Association for Thoracic Surgery and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2008;51:e1-62. PMID: 18498951 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2008.02.032

This content was last updated in August 2018.