
### Correct Answer: B) CT angiography of the aorta 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose aortopathy in a patient with a bicuspid aortic valve.

#### **Key Point:** Bicuspid valve disease is commonly associated with abnormalities of the aorta, including aneurysm, dissection, and coarctation; therefore, all patients with a bicuspid aortic valve should be evaluated for possible aortopathy with CT or cardiac magnetic resonance imaging.

The most appropriate next step in management is CT angiography of the aorta. Bicuspid aortic valve is a common congenital heart abnormality, occurring in 1% to 2% of the general population. It is also heritable, and screening of first-degree relatives is recommended. Aortopathy commonly accompanies bicuspid aortic valve disease and may be associated with aortic aneurysm, dissection, and coarctation. Owing to the life-threatening nature of these abnormalities, all patients with a bicuspid aortic valve should be evaluated for possible aortopathy. This patient's severe hypertension suggests the possibility of aortic coarctation. Without a diagnosis and therapeutic intervention, the mean life expectancy of unoperated patients with coarctation of the aorta is only 35 years; major complications consist of early coronary atherosclerosis, stroke, aortic dissection, systemic hypertension, and heart failure. The presence of a radial artery–to–femoral artery pulse delay may be helpful in diagnosis at the bedside, but the definitive study is an imaging evaluation (CT or cardiac magnetic resonance imaging).
Patients with a bicuspid aortic valve and severe aortic stenosis or regurgitation require echocardiography every 6 to 12 months; those with mild stenosis or regurgitation should have echocardiography every 3 to 5 years. This patient does not require annual echocardiography; rather, he should be promptly evaluated for abnormalities of the aorta because of the presence of a bicuspid aortic valve.
Bicuspid aortic valve carries an increased risk for infective endocarditis, and good dental care is important in these patients. However, guidelines no longer recommend antibiotic prophylaxis for this patient population.
Surgical aortic valve replacement is not indicated for mild aortic regurgitation. In general, indications for aortic valve intervention include the presence of symptoms, left ventricular ejection fraction of 50% or less, moderate or severe aortic regurgitation at the time of other cardiac surgery, and significant left ventricular dilatation (end-systolic dimension >50 mm or indexed end-systolic dimension >25 mm/m2).

**Bibliography**

Warnes CA, Williams RG, Bashore TM, Child JS, Connolly HM, Dearani JA, et al. ACC/AHA 2008 guidelines for the management of adults with congenital heart disease: executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines (writing committee to develop guidelines for the management of adults with congenital heart disease). Circulation. 2008;118:2395-451. PMID: 18997168 doi:10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.108.190811

This content was last updated in August 2018.