
### Correct Answer: A) Diabetes mellitus 

**Educational Objective:** Identify the impact of diabetes mellitus on risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with diabetes mellitus have a two to four times increased risk for cardiovascular disease, with more than two thirds of patients with diabetes eventually dying of heart disease.

The factor associated with the highest risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) in this woman is the diagnosis of diabetes mellitus. The presence of diabetes is associated with increased cardiovascular risk, particularly among women. Patients with diabetes have a two to four times increased risk for cardiovascular disease, with more than two thirds of patients with diabetes eventually dying of heart disease. The risk for stroke is increased 1.8- to 6-fold in patients with diabetes. Additionally, patients with diabetes are more likely to have undiagnosed coronary artery disease and have worse outcomes when hospitalized for other cardiovascular diseases, such as heart failure. In this patient, the development of diabetes alone (with all other risk factors held constant) nearly doubled her 10-year risk for ASCVD. Her current 10-year risk, including diabetes, changes in her age, and blood pressure and lipid levels, is 19.4%. Appropriate treatment of cardiovascular risk factors in patients with diabetes is associated with reduced cardiovascular risk. The 2018 American Heart Association/American College of Cardiology Guideline on the Management of Blood Cholesterol recommends that patients aged 40 to 75 years with diabetes receive moderate-intensity statin therapy. If additional risk factors are present, it is reasonable to calculate the 10-year risk for ASCVD. Patients should receive high-intensity statin therapy if 10-year ASCVD risk is 20% or higher.
A diastolic blood pressure of 90 mm Hg, HDL cholesterol level of 30 mg/dL (0.78 mmol/L), systolic blood pressure of 140 mm Hg, and total cholesterol level of 250 mg/dL (6.47 mmol/L) have a relatively small effect on 10-year ASCVD risk compared with the presence of diabetes.

**Bibliography**

Lloyd-Jones DM, Huffman MD, Karmali KN, Sanghavi DM, Wright JS, Pelser C, et al. Estimating longitudinal risks and benefits from cardiovascular preventive therapies among Medicare patients: the Million Hearts Longitudinal ASCVD Risk Assessment Tool: a special report from the American Heart Association and American College of Cardiology. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2017;69:1617-1636. PMID: 27825770 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2016.10.018

This content was last updated in September 2019.