
### Correct Answer: A) Blood cultures 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose infection of a cardiac implanted electronic device.

#### **Key Point:** In all patients suspected of having infection of a cardiac implanted electronic device, a minimum of two blood cultures should be drawn from separate sites.

The most appropriate management of this patient is to obtain a complete blood count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and two sets of blood cultures. Patients with a cardiac implanted electronic device can develop a localized tissue infection at the implant site (pocket infection) or a systemic infection with bacteremia (such as endocarditis). These infections can occur after initial implantation, late after implantation, or after a battery replacement or revision. The most common pathogens are skin colonizers, such as the coagulase-negative Staphylococcus spp. and S. aureus. Symptoms of cardiac device infection include fever, chills, malaise, lassitude, or failure to thrive, especially in the elderly. There may also be local findings suggestive of infection, such as redness or warmth at the pacemaker pocket. These patients should undergo laboratory evaluation for signs of infection. An elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, leukocytosis with a left shift, and anemia all suggest infection of a cardiac implanted electronic device. All patients suspected of having infection (with or without fever) should have a minimum of two blood cultures drawn from separate sites. Once there is suspicion for infection of a cardiac implanted electronic device, referral to an electrophysiologist or an infectious disease specialist is mandatory.
Empiric antibiotic therapy without first identifying the presence and cause of the infection is not best medical practice. In addition, antibiotic therapy for a confirmed infection without removal of the device is not curative and is associated with a high fatality rate.
Pacemaker pocket aspiration should never be performed because it can seed a sterile pocket and lead to infection, especially if there is superficial cellulitis without deeper tissue involvement.
In patients with high suspicion of infection despite equivocal laboratory findings, PET/CT can help determine whether there is evidence of local tissue inflammation consistent with a device infection. However, the basic evaluation for infection should be completed and analyzed first.

**Bibliography**

Harrison JL, Prendergast BD, Sandoe JA. Guidelines for the diagnosis, management and prevention of implantable cardiac electronic device infection [Editorial]. Heart. 2015;101:250-2. PMID: 25550318 doi:10.1136/heartjnl-2014-306873

This content was last updated in August 2018.