
### Correct Answer: B) Heart failure exacerbation 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose an acute exacerbation of heart failure in a patient with COPD.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with heart failure classically present with symptoms of dyspnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, orthopnea, and peripheral edema.

The most likely cause of this patient's symptoms is an exacerbation of heart failure. He demonstrates the classic heart failure symptoms of dyspnea, orthopnea, and peripheral edema. In particular, the patient's orthopnea, as evidenced by his sleeping in a recliner, correlates with a pulmonary capillary wedge pressure greater than 20 mm Hg, which is suggestive of left-sided heart failure. Other features that increase the likelihood of heart failure include the presence of paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea (greater than twofold increased likelihood) and the presence of an S3 (11 times greater likelihood). Factors that would decrease the likelihood of heart failure are the absence of dyspnea on exertion (50% decreased likelihood) and the absence of crackles on pulmonary auscultation. A recently enlarged cardiac silhouette also supports a cardiac process.
An exacerbation of COPD is less likely to be the cause of this patient's dyspnea because the patient has no productive cough. Additionally, exacerbations are commonly precipitated by a respiratory infection, which is absent in this patient.
If clinical findings suggest pneumonia, chest radiography should be performed. The chest radiograph must show an infiltrate for pneumonia to be diagnosed. When clinical symptoms and examination findings otherwise support the diagnosis of pneumonia, a false-negative chest radiograph is a possibility; volume depletion can cause an initial negative finding on chest radiograph that, upon rehydration and repeat imaging, may become positive. The absence of an infiltrate, fever, and lung findings make pneumonia an unlikely cause of the patient's dyspnea.
Deep venous thrombosis with a resultant pulmonary embolism is always a concern in patients with new-onset dyspnea. However, he reports no chest pain, and his dyspnea was slow in onset (over the course of 1 week) rather than an acute process. A pulmonary embolism should be considered in the differential diagnosis, but heart failure is the more likely cause.

**Bibliography**

Wang CS, FitzGerald JM, Schulzer M, Mak E, Ayas NT. Does this dyspneic patient in the emergency department have congestive heart failure? JAMA. 2005;294:1944-56. PMID: 16234501

This content was last updated in August 2018.