
### Correct Answer: B) Primary percutaneous coronary intervention 

**Educational Objective:** Treat ST-elevation myocardial infarction complicated by ventricular fibrillation.

#### **Key Point:** Primary percutaneous coronary intervention is the preferred method of reperfusion in patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction.

Primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is the most appropriate next step in management. ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) is caused by a complete occlusion of an epicardial coronary artery by a thrombus at the site of plaque disruption. It is defined by the presence of ischemic chest pain (or an equivalent) and the presence of greater than 1-mm ST-segment elevation in two or more consecutive leads or new left bundle branch block on electrocardiogram. This patient presumably has an anterior myocardial infarction, which is complicated by ventricular fibrillation arrest. The electrocardiogram demonstrates left bundle branch block and is assumed to be new in onset. In some cases, ventricular arrhythmias may signify spontaneous reperfusion events, but the new left bundle branch block is worrisome for persistent left anterior descending artery occlusion, which remains the obvious culprit for the patient's presentation. Prompt reperfusion is required. Primary PCI is the preferred method of reperfusion in patients with STEMI.
Amiodarone may be necessary if this patient has recurrent ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia; however, amiodarone alone is unlikely to control his ischemic-related arrhythmias, and reperfusion is the foremost priority. Furthermore, intravenous amiodarone may precipitate hypotension and shock owing to its acute β-blocking activity, and it must be used carefully in patients with STEMI.
Therapeutic hypothermia is an important adjunct therapy to improve outcomes of patients experiencing out-of-hospital cardiac arrest, although hypothermia protocols are not indicated in noncomatose patients. This patient's arrest was a witnessed arrest, and the patient is awake and conversant.
Coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery is not commonly performed for STEMI. Urgent CABG surgery is typically reserved for patients in whom thrombolytic therapy or PCI has failed, or for those who develop life-threatening mechanical complications, such as ventricular free wall rupture. Compared with PCI and thrombolytic therapy, urgent CABG surgery is associated with an increased death rate in the first 3 to 7 days after STEMI, and this potential harm must be carefully weighed against the potential benefits.
A 2018 systematic review found that supplemental oxygen in the setting of normal peripheral oxygen saturation increases mortality in patients with acute myocardial infarction. A subsequent international guideline strongly recommends that oxygen therapy not be initiated for patients with an acute myocardial infarction and oxygen saturation as measured by pulse oximetry (SpO2) of 93% or higher. If supplemental oxygen is initiated, the guideline recommends not exceeding an SpO2 of 96%. This patient's oxygen saturation is 98%, and his supplemental oxygen should be reduced.

**Bibliography**

Callaway CW, Donnino MW, Fink EL, Geocadin RG, Golan E, Kern KB, et al. Part 8: Post-cardiac arrest care: 2015 American Heart Association guidelines update for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and emergency cardiovascular care. Circulation. 2015;132:S465-82. PMID: 26472996 doi:10.1161/CIR.0000000000000262

This content was last updated in May 2019.