
### Correct Answer: D) CT angiography of the chest and neck 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose upper extremity peripheral artery disease.

#### **Key Point:** Symptoms of upper extremity peripheral artery disease may include arm claudication, arm ischemia, or dizziness with arm activity; CT angiography is useful to confirm the diagnosis and plan for intervention.

CT angiography is indicated in this patient suspected of having upper extremity peripheral artery disease (PAD). Upper extremity PAD is characterized by atherosclerotic narrowing of the arteries in the upper extremities. Most patients with upper extremity PAD have no symptoms, although patients may present with arm claudication, arm ischemia, or dizziness with arm activity (subclavian steal syndrome). In patients at risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, measurement of bilateral arm pressures is indicated in asymptomatic and symptomatic patients to assess for upper extremity PAD. A characteristic finding on physical examination is a difference in systolic blood pressures between the arms, typically more than 15 mm Hg. In this patient with exercise-induced arm pain and a systolic blood pressure differential of 35 mm Hg between arms, imaging of the innominate and subclavian arteries with CT angiography is appropriate to confirm the diagnosis of upper extremity PAD and plan for intervention, such as revascularization.
The Adson maneuver (or thoracic outlet maneuver) is used to evaluate for neurovascular impingement at the point where the subclavian vessels and brachial plexus pass the first rib and exit the thoracic cavity. Although thoracic outlet syndrome could account for this patient's arm fatigue, he does not have other symptoms or signs suggestive of this condition (for example, arm edema, numbness/tingling), and thoracic outlet syndrome does not explain his dizziness.
The ankle-brachial index is most useful in diagnosing lower extremity PAD. In this patient with upper extremity symptoms, an ankle-brachial index would not be helpful in confirming a diagnosis of innominate or subclavian stenosis.
Although bilateral carotid artery stenosis has been associated with dizziness or syncope in some patients, the systolic blood pressure differential in the upper limbs and diminished ipsilateral carotid pulsation make this diagnosis unlikely. Therefore, carotid duplex ultrasonography is not the most appropriate next step.

**Bibliography**

Ochoa VM, Yeghiazarians Y. Subclavian artery stenosis: a review for the vascular medicine practitioner. Vasc Med. 2011;16:29-34. PMID: 21078767 doi:10.1177/1358863X10384174

This content was last updated in August 2018.