
### Correct Answer: C) Open surgical aortic repair 

**Educational Objective:** Treat type A aortic dissection.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with acute type A aortic dissection should be treated emergently with open surgical repair.

The most appropriate next step in the management of this patient with an acute type A aortic dissection is emergent open surgical aortic repair. This patient's CT scan (shown) reveals a dissection plane extending through the aortic arch (arrow). Acute aortic dissection classically manifests as sudden-onset chest or back pain that has a tearing or ripping quality, such as in this patient; however, patients may present with hypertension, syncope, a murmur of aortic regurgitation, or heart failure in the setting of sudden aortic insufficiency. Unequal blood pressures in the upper extremities and asymmetric pulses further raise the suspicion for acute aortic dissection. Stanford type A aortic dissections, which originate within the ascending aorta or arch, confer a high risk for death and complications. The early mortality rate is approximately 1% per hour after symptom onset; therefore, patients with acute type A aortic dissection should be evaluated emergently for open surgical repair.
In patients with acute aortic dissection, performing coronary angiography before aortic repair has not been shown to alter in-hospital survival or the need for coronary artery bypass surgery at the time of aortic repair. Furthermore, coronary angiography often delays surgical repair.
Medical therapy for acute aortic dissection includes β-blockers, intravenous nitroprusside, and opioid analgesia. Surgery provides a survival benefit over medical therapy alone and is the definitive treatment.
Emergency surgery is recommended for all patients with type A aortic dissection. Concomitant aortic arch reconstruction, coronary artery reimplantation, aortic valve repair or replacement, or branch vessel repair may be required depending on the anatomy and pathology of the lesion. This patient has evidence of compromise of his right innominate artery with diminished right arm blood pressure and pulses and requires branch vessel repair, not endovascular stenting.

**Bibliography**

Erbel R, Aboyans V, Boileau C, Bossone E, Bartolomeo RD, Eggebrecht H, et al; ESC Committee for Practice Guidelines. 2014 ESC guidelines on the diagnosis and treatment of aortic diseases: document covering acute and chronic aortic diseases of the thoracic and abdominal aorta of the adult. The Task Force for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Aortic Diseases of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC). Eur Heart J. 2014;35:2873-926. PMID: 25173340 doi:10.1093/eurheartj/ehu281

This content was last updated in August 2018.