
### Correct Answer: D) Start dobutamine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat cardiogenic shock.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with cardiogenic shock, inotropes such as dobutamine or milrinone may be considered to improve cardiac function.

The most appropriate initial treatment of this patient with cardiogenic shock is to start dobutamine. Cardiogenic shock is defined by persistent symptomatic hypotension and end-organ dysfunction. Patients present with acute kidney failure, evidence of liver dysfunction with elevated aminotransferase levels, poor peripheral perfusion with cool extremities, and impaired mental status. Cardiogenic shock secondary to progressive heart failure is generally treated with an inotropic agent, such as dobutamine or milrinone. Patients with peripheral vasoconstriction (increased systemic vascular resistance) often benefit from the addition of a pure vasodilator, such as sodium nitroprusside. In this case, dobutamine would be a better option than milrinone, even in the setting of relative tachycardia, because milrinone is excreted through the kidneys and could build to a toxic level given her current kidney function.
β-Blockers such as carvedilol should be continued during a heart failure hospitalization whenever possible. In a patient with volume overload without signs of low cardiac output, β-blockers can often be continued at the maintenance dose while the patient is undergoing diuresis. However, in a patient with low cardiac output such as this one, β-blockers should be discontinued, owing to their negative inotropic effects, even in the setting of tachycardia.
Digoxin is a weak inotrope that reduces hospitalizations in patients with heart failure. Although this patient's digoxin level is low, the dose should not be increased in the setting of acute kidney failure. Additionally, increasing digoxin would not be expected to adequately improve cardiac output in this patient.
Although afterload reduction is reasonable to decrease myocardial oxygen demand and improve forward flow in patients with acute decompensation, a short-acting intravenous agent, such as nitroprusside or nitroglycerin, would be administered instead of increasing the dosage of an oral ACE inhibitor, such as lisinopril.

**Bibliography**

Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, Butler J, Casey DE Jr, Drazner MH, et al; American College of Cardiology Foundation. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the management of heart failure: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2013;62:e147-239. PMID: 23747642 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2013.05.019

This content was last updated in August 2018.