
### Correct Answer: C) Transthoracic echocardiography 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate an asymptomatic murmur with transthoracic echocardiography.

#### **Key Point:** Transthoracic echocardiography is indicated for patients with systolic murmurs grade 3/6 or higher, late or holosystolic murmurs, diastolic or continuous murmurs, and murmurs with accompanying symptoms.

The most appropriate management of this asymptomatic patient with a heart murmur is transthoracic echocardiography (TTE). Diastolic murmurs are always considered abnormal and require further structural evaluation. Systolic murmurs may be either innocent or indicative of significant valve disease. Some murmurs are associated with normal valves but abnormal systemic processes (for example, anemia and other high-output states, such as hyperthyroidism or pregnancy) or increased flow (for example, a systolic murmur in the setting of aortic regurgitation). Innocent murmurs are characteristically brief, are often midsystolic, do not radiate, and are associated with normal heart sounds and no hemodynamic abnormalities. Patients with grade 1 or 2 midsystolic murmurs (grade 1, faintest murmur that can be heard; grade 2, faint murmur but can be identified immediately) who are asymptomatic with no associated findings and those with continuous murmurs suggestive of a venous hum or mammary souffle (a continuous murmur heard over the breast in lactating women) do not warrant echocardiographic evaluation. TTE is indicated for patients with the following findings: (1) a systolic murmur grade 3/6 or higher (grade 3, moderately loud murmur; grade 4, loud murmur associated with a palpable thrill; grade 5, very loud murmur but cannot be heard without the stethoscope; and grade 6, can be heard without a stethoscope); (2) late or holosystolic murmurs; (3) diastolic or continuous murmurs; or (4) murmurs with accompanying symptoms. This patient with a holosystolic murmur that radiates to the axilla needs further evaluation with TTE.
Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) provides improved image quality over TTE because the probe has only the thin tissue of the esophagus through which to image. TEE is indicated for patients with severe disease who need further quantification, for better identification of leaflet involvement (particularly for patients with mitral regurgitation), or when poor image quality on TTE limits image interpretation. The disadvantage compared with TTE is that it is invasive, requiring sedation and technical expertise distinct from TTE. TEE is not indicated until an initial assessment with TTE is made and findings suggest a need for additional information.
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging or multidetector CT may provide information on left ventricular function, aortic dimensions, chamber sizes and volumes, and coronary anatomy. As with TEE, CMR imaging should not be performed until after an initial evaluation with TTE.

**Bibliography**

Premkumar P. Utility of echocardiogram in the evaluation of heart murmurs. Med Clin North Am. 2016;100:991-1001. PMID: 27542419 doi:10.1016/j.mcna.2016.04.005

This content was last updated in August 2018.