
### Correct Answer: D) Transthoracic echocardiography 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate tricuspid regurgitation with transthoracic echocardiography.

#### **Key Point:** In patients suspected of having tricuspid regurgitation, transthoracic echocardiography is indicated to evaluate lesion severity, determine the cause, assess the size and function of the right-sided chambers, and estimate pulmonary artery pressures.

The most appropriate next step in management is transthoracic echocardiography. This patient has symptoms and signs consistent with tricuspid regurgitation. Severe tricuspid regurgitation may be well tolerated for a long period. Clinical signs of right-sided heart failure, such as elevated jugular venous pulse and peripheral edema, are an indication of severity. The murmur of tricuspid regurgitation is typically a holosystolic murmur heard along the left sternal border that increases during inspiration due to increased venous return. Causes of tricuspid regurgitation include rheumatic disease, radiation, endocarditis, myxomatous degeneration (prolapse), congenital abnormalities (Ebstein anomaly), carcinoid disease, and trauma (for example, chest wall impact or right ventricular biopsy). Placement of internal device leads for pacemakers and cardioverter-defibrillators is also a common cause of tricuspid regurgitation. In patients with suspected tricuspid regurgitation, transthoracic echocardiography is indicated to evaluate lesion severity, determine the cause, assess the size and function of the right-sided chambers, and estimate pulmonary artery pressures. Transesophageal echocardiography can also help demonstrate the relation of the device leads to tricuspid leaflets as a cause of tricuspid regurgitation.
Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging may be helpful in the evaluation of tricuspid regurgitation if echocardiographic evaluation is suboptimal or inconclusive. In this patient, the pacemaker presents a contraindication to CMR imaging.
Coronary angiography and right ventriculography are not useful in the diagnosis of tricuspid regurgitation. Unlike mitral regurgitation, ischemic coronary artery disease is not a common cause of tricuspid regurgitation. Evaluation of right heart pressures may be indicated following echocardiography, particularly if there is discordant information obtained by clinical and echocardiographic evaluation, but right heart catheterization is not necessary at this time.

**Bibliography**

Lin G, Nishimura RA, Connolly HM, Dearani JA, Sundt TM 3rd, Hayes DL. Severe symptomatic tricuspid valve regurgitation due to permanent pacemaker or implantable cardioverter-defibrillator leads. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2005;45:1672-5. PMID: 15893186

This content was last updated in August 2018.