
### Correct Answer: A) Decrease ranolazine 

**Educational Objective:** Manage drug-drug interactions in a patient with stable angina.

#### **Key Point:** Ranolazine decreases symptoms of angina and modestly increases exercise times in patients with stable angina; it should not be used with strong CYP3A inhibitors, and dosage should be reduced when used in conjunction with moderate CYP3A inhibitors, such as diltiazem and verapamil.

The most appropriate management is to decrease the dosage of ranolazine. This patient with stable angina is being transitioned from metoprolol, a β-blocker, to diltiazem, a calcium channel blocker. He is also currently taking several other antianginal therapies, notably ranolazine. Ranolazine decreases angina and modestly increases exercise times in patients with stable angina. Ranolazine inhibits the late sodium current, which in turn reduces sodium-dependent calcium currents, resulting in reduced wall tension and myocardial oxygen consumption. Ranolazine is primarily metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4); therefore, caution should be exercised when prescribing ranolazine with CYP3A4 inhibitors, which will result in significantly increased plasma levels of ranolazine. Ranolazine should not be used with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, such as ketoconazole, clarithromycin, and ritonavir. With moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors, including verapamil and diltiazem, the dosage should be decreased by 50% and should not exceed 500 mg twice daily. Ranolazine also has a modest QT-prolonging effect, but no proarrhythmic effect has been directly attributed to ranolazine.
The addition of diltiazem to this patient's medication regimen will not require increasing the dosage of atorvastatin. Diltiazem may in fact result in increased levels of atorvastatin, which is a CYP3A4 substrate.
There are no significant drug-drug interactions between lisinopril and diltiazem that would warrant switching to another ACE inhibitor.
Not adjusting this patient's medication regimen would result in excessive plasma levels of ranolazine and is not an acceptable option.

**Bibliography**

Fihn SD, Gardin JM, Abrams J, Berra K, Blankenship JC, Dallas AP, et al; American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force. 2012 ACCF/AHA/ACP/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association task force on practice guidelines, and the American College of Physicians, American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Circulation. 2012;126:e354-471. PMID: 23166211 doi:10.1161/CIR.0b013e318277d6a0

This content was last updated in August 2018.