
### Correct Answer: D) No further testing or intervention 

**Educational Objective:** Manage first-degree atrioventricular block accompanied by bifascicular block.

#### **Key Point:** Asymptomatic first-degree atrioventricular block with bifascicular block does not require pacemaker implantation.

No further testing or intervention is required at this time. This asymptomatic patient has first-degree atrioventricular (AV) block (PR interval >200 ms), right bundle branch block, and left posterior fascicular block. Right bundle branch block is diagnosed by the findings of a widened QRS complex (>120 ms); an RSR′ pattern in lead V1; and a wide negative S wave in leads I, V5, and V6. Blocks may also occur in the anterior or posterior divisions (fascicles) of the left bundle; these are termed fascicular blocks (or hemiblocks). Left anterior fascicular block is recognized by a positive QRS complex in lead I and a negative QRS complex in lead aVF. Left posterior fascicular block is recognized by a negative QRS complex in lead I and a positive QRS complex in lead aVF. Conduction disturbances involving the right bundle branch and one of the two fascicles (anterior or posterior) of the left bundle branch are commonly referred to as bifascicular block. The presence of first-degree AV block with bifascicular block is often called “trifascicular block”; however, the term is misleading because true trifascicular block would indicate complete AV block.
There is no need for extensive cardiac evaluation of patients with asymptomatic bifascicular block other than a careful history and physical examination to exclude the diagnosis of occult cardiac disease. Therefore, echocardiography and dobutamine echocardiography are not indicated because occult ischemic or structural heart disease is not suspected in this patient.
Pacemakers are indicated in patients with symptomatic bradycardia in the absence of a reversible cause, hence the importance of establishing symptoms when evaluating patients with bradycardia. Pacing is not indicated in asymptomatic patients with first-degree AV block accompanied by bifascicular block because the risk for progression to complete heart block is less than 2% to 3% per year. As such, pacemaker insertion is not needed in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Da Costa D, Brady WJ, Edhouse J. Bradycardias and atrioventricular conduction block. BMJ. 2002;324:535-8. PMID: 11872557

This content was last updated in August 2018.