
### Correct Answer: E) Continue current medications 

**Educational Objective:** Treat heart failure with reduced ejection fraction.

#### **Key Point:** Guideline-directed medical therapy for symptomatic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction includes an ACE inhibitor, β-blocker (specifically, metoprolol succinate, carvedilol, or bisoprolol), and aldosterone antagonist.

The most appropriate management of this patient with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) is to continue the current medication regimen. Guideline-directed medical therapy for symptomatic heart failure includes treatment with an ACE inhibitor, β-blocker (specifically, metoprolol succinate, carvedilol, or bisoprolol), and an aldosterone antagonist. All of these agents reduce mortality in patients with HFrEF. This patient is already taking guideline-directed medical therapy at maximally tolerated doses, as evidenced by her symptomatic orthostatic hypotension; therefore, no changes need to be made to her medication regimen.
Ivabradine inhibits the If or “I-funny” channel of the sinoatrial node, resulting in a reduction in heart rate. In patients with HFrEF (left ventricular ejection fraction ≤35%) and New York Heart Association functional class II to IV symptoms who are in sinus rhythm with a heart rate of 70/min or higher and taking guideline-directed medical therapy, treatment with ivabradine has been associated with a reduction in heart failure hospitalizations. Before the resting heart rate is assessed for potential initiation of ivabradine, β-blockers should be titrated to maximally tolerated doses. Because this patient has a heart rate of 68/min and is already taking a maximally tolerated dose of carvedilol, she is not a candidate for ivabradine. It is important to note that ivabradine should be given in addition to β-blocker therapy, not in its place.
Valsartan-sacubitril is an angiotensin receptor–neprilysin inhibitor, a new drug class that combines an angiotensin receptor blocker with a neprilysin inhibitor. The neprilysin inhibitor prevents the breakdown of B-type natriuretic peptide, leading to enhanced diuresis, natriuresis, and myocardial relaxation. Compared with ACE inhibitor therapy, this drug combination has been shown to reduce the composite endpoint of cardiovascular death or heart failure hospitalization by 20% in symptomatic patients with HFrEF. However, in a clinical trial assessing response to valsartan-sacubitril, the major cause of withdrawal was hypotension. In this patient who is taking an ACE inhibitor and β-blocker and is experiencing symptomatic orthostatic hypotension, the substitution of valsartan-sacubitril for lisinopril is not indicated. Additionally, adding valsartan-sacubitril to her current medication regimen, which includes lisinopril, would greatly increase her risk for angioedema and hypotension. ACE inhibitors should be discontinued at least 36 hours before initiating valsartan-sacubitril. If she did not have symptomatic hypotension, switching lisinopril to valsartan-sacubitril would be an appropriate option.

**Bibliography**

Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, Butler J, Casey DE Jr, Colvin MM, et al. 2016 ACC/AHA/HFSA focused update on new pharmacological therapy for heart failure: an update of the 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the management of heart failure: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines and the Heart Failure Society of America. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2016;68:1476-88. PMID: 27216111 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2016.05.011

This content was last updated in September 2019.