
### Correct Answer: B) Device closure of the atrial septal defect 

**Educational Objective:** Treat atrial septal defect.

#### **Key Point:** Right heart enlargement and symptomatic disease are indications for device closure of an ostium secundum atrial septal defect.

Percutaneous atrial septal defect (ASD) device closure is the best management choice for this patient depending on favorability of anatomic features. Device closure is performed in the catheterization laboratory and is an option for patients with an isolated ostium secundum ASD. Indications for ASD device closure include right heart enlargement and symptoms. Percutaneous device closure is also a reasonable option for asymptomatic patients with shunt-related hemodynamic consequences, for orthodeoxia-platypnea syndrome, and before pacemaker placement because of the increased risk for systemic thromboembolism. An asymptomatic small ASD with no right heart enlargement can be monitored without closure. Surgical closure is indicated for nonsecundum ASDs, large secundum ASDs, anatomy unfavorable for device closure, and a secundum ASD in patients with coexistent cardiovascular disease requiring operative intervention, such as coronary artery disease or tricuspid regurgitation.
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging can be used to detect a secundum ASD and can quantitate the effect of the defect by determining right ventricular volume; however, it is not indicated in this patient because the clinical assessment and echocardiogram are sufficient to guide the decision to close the ASD.
Endocarditis prophylaxis is recommended for patients with congenital heart disease characterized by unrepaired cyanotic disease, including palliative shunts and conduits; a congenital defect during the first 6 months after complete repair of the defect with prosthetic material or device; and repaired disease with residual defects. Patients with an uncomplicated ASD without a history of endocarditis do not require endocarditis prophylaxis.
Functional aerobic capacity measured by stress testing is not generally used to determine management in patients with ASDs.

**Bibliography**

Stout KK, Daniels CJ, Aboulhosn JA, Bozkurt B, Broberg CS, Colman JM, et al. 2018 AHA/ACC guideline for the management of adults with congenital heart disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2018. PMID: 30121239 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2018.08.1029

This content was last updated in May 2019.