
### Correct Answer: D) Transcatheter aortic valve replacement 

**Educational Objective:** Treat severe aortic stenosis with transcatheter aortic valve replacement in a patient with high surgical risk.

#### **Key Point:** Transcatheter aortic valve replacement has been found to be comparable to surgical intervention and is indicated for symptomatic patients with aortic stenosis and intermediate or high surgical risk, as assessed by a multidisciplinary heart team.

The most appropriate next step in management is transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). TAVR has emerged as a life-saving therapy for patients with severe aortic stenosis. In studies of patients with intermediate or high surgical risk, the outcomes of TAVR have been comparable or favorable to that of surgery, with similar rates of mortality and stroke. In the United States, TAVR is currently indicated for symptomatic patients with aortic stenosis and intermediate or high surgical risk, as assessed by a multidisciplinary heart team. Online tools, which are derived and regularly updated from national surgical databases, are available to assist with estimating surgical risk (for example, the Society of Thoracic Surgeons Adult Cardiac Surgery Risk Calculator []). Although these calculators contain many data input fields, it is important to note that frailty as well as some other important patient and procedural characteristics are not part of the online assessment tools. Therefore, a comprehensive, holistic approach is required for determining patient surgical risk and candidacy for the various procedures to treat aortic stenosis. Frailty can be assessed with an examination of the patient's activities of daily living, independence in ambulation (for example, 6-minute walk distance), and various other geriatric tools.
Balloon aortic valvuloplasty may be considered as a bridge to transcatheter or surgical aortic valve replacement, but it has not been shown to improve the long-term prognosis of patients with aortic stenosis.
Medical therapy has not been found to be effective in slowing the disease progression in patients with aortic stenosis. Medical therapy would be pursued only if this patient declined aortic valve replacement or if he had morbidities that would preclude benefit from such surgery, such as a reduced life expectancy unrelated to valvular disease.
Surgical aortic valve replacement is not appropriate for this patient because his surgical risk was estimated to be high or prohibitive.

**Bibliography**

Smith CR, Leon MB, Mack MJ, Miller DC, Moses JW, Svensson LG, et al; PARTNER Trial Investigators. Transcatheter versus surgical aortic-valve replacement in high-risk patients. N Engl J Med. 2011;364:2187-98. PMID: 21639811 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1103510

This content was last updated in August 2018.