
### Correct Answer: A) Eplerenone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat ST-elevation myocardial infarction complicated by heart failure.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction, left ventricular ejection fraction of 40% or less, and either heart failure symptoms or diabetes mellitus, an aldosterone antagonist is recommended in addition to ACE inhibitor and β-blocker therapy.

The most appropriate treatment is eplerenone. This patient had an anterior ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) complicated by moderate left ventricular (LV) dysfunction and heart failure. Optimizing this patient's medical therapy is fundamental to preventing further impairment of LV function and promoting favorable LV remodeling. Although β-blockers and ACE inhibitors (or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) form the backbone of postinfarction medical therapy aimed at preserving LV function, it is important to recognize when additional agents may be indicated. The EPHESUS trial established the benefits of aldosterone antagonism with eplerenone in patients with acute myocardial infarction and concomitant LV dysfunction, and current guidelines recommend adding an aldosterone antagonist to ACE inhibitor and β-blocker therapy in STEMI patients with left ventricular ejection fraction of 40% or less and either heart failure symptoms or diabetes mellitus. Because of the potassium-sparing effect of eplerenone, serum potassium levels should be carefully monitored. Eplerenone should be used with caution in those with underlying kidney disease.
Long-acting nitrates, such as isosorbide mononitrate, have no role in the management of patients immediately after ST-elevation myocardial infarction. Nitrates may be used for future angina or may be coupled with hydralazine in those with persistent LV dysfunction despite maximally tolerated doses of a β-blocker and ACE inhibitor; however, administering isosorbide mononitrate is not the most appropriate next step in this patient's management.
Although an ARB such as valsartan may be useful as an alternative to ACE inhibitor therapy, adding an ARB to a medication regimen that already includes an ACE inhibitor and β-blocker has been associated with an excess of adverse events and is therefore not recommended.
Warfarin therapy is recommended to reduce the risk for systemic embolization in patients with LV apical clots following large anterior myocardial infarction, although this recommendation is not based on a large randomized dataset. In this patient, no clots were noted on the echocardiogram, and empiric anticoagulation is not indicated according to current guidelines.

**Bibliography**

Pitt B, Remme W, Zannad F, Neaton J, Martinez F, Roniker B, et al; Eplerenone Post-Acute Myocardial Infarction Heart Failure Efficacy and Survival Study Investigators. Eplerenone, a selective aldosterone blocker, in patients with left ventricular dysfunction after myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2003;348:1309-21. PMID: 12668699

This content was last updated in August 2018.