
### Correct Answer: B) Cardiac tamponade 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose cardiac tamponade following catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation.

#### **Key Point:** Cardiac tamponade occurs in approximately 1% of patients who undergo catheter ablation procedures for atrial fibrillation; it is the most common serious complication and is likely to result in death if not recognized and treated urgently.

The catheter ablation–related complication that is most likely responsible for the patient's symptoms is cardiac tamponade. Although cardiac tamponade occurs in approximately 1% of patients who undergo catheter ablation procedures for atrial fibrillation, it is the most common serious complication and is likely to result in death if not recognized and treated urgently. Cardiac tamponade occurs within a mean of 10 days after the procedure, although it may occur within hours of the procedure or be delayed by weeks. Cardiac tamponade should be suspected when the patient has a compatible history, hypotension, elevated jugular venous pressure, narrow pulse pressure, and pulsus paradoxus. An enlarged cardiac silhouette may be seen on chest radiograph (“water-bottle heart”). The electrocardiogram typically demonstrates sinus tachycardia and electrical alternans. Echocardiography readily detects pericardial effusions and is the primary modality for diagnosing cardiac tamponade.
Patients who develop an atrioesophageal fistula most commonly present 1 to 4 weeks after the ablation procedure. Patients may exhibit a sudden onset of neurologic symptoms from esophageal air embolization. Patients may also present with fever, chest pain, seizures, transient ischemic attack after food intake, hematemesis, and endocarditis. MRI and CT are preferred as diagnostic studies.
Patients who develop dyspnea months to years after atrial fibrillation ablation may have pulmonary vein stenosis. Other symptoms may include cough, chest pain, and hemoptysis. Pulmonary vein stenosis occurs in approximately 1% to 3% of patients, but intervention to relieve symptoms is required in only 10% of these patients. Guidelines recommend CT or MRI as the preferred diagnostic test in symptomatic patients.
Vascular events, including hematomas, pseudoaneurysms at the arterial puncture site, and retroperitoneal hemorrhage from bleeding at the groin access site, are among the most common complications of catheter ablation. Symptoms include hypotension and ipsilateral flank pain. Symptom onset is typically within hours of the procedure. Diagnosis can be established with CT or ultrasonography. Retroperitoneal hemorrhage cannot explain this patient's distant heart sounds, elevated central venous pressure, or pulsus paradoxus.

**Bibliography**

Maan A, Shaikh AY, Mansour M, Ruskin JN, Heist EK. Complications from catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation: a systematic review. Crit Pathw Cardiol. 2011;10:76-83. PMID: 21988947 doi:10.1097/HPC.0b013e318224b7bd

This content was last updated in August 2018.