
### Correct Answer: D) Refer for placement of an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator with cardiac resynchronization therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat heart failure with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator and cardiac resynchronization therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Cardiac resynchronization therapy is indicated in patients with an ejection fraction less than or equal to 35%, New York Heart Association functional class II to IV heart failure symptoms despite guideline-directed medical therapy, sinus rhythm, and left bundle branch block with a QRS duration of 150 ms or greater.

The most appropriate management is placement of an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) with cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT). This patient has symptomatic heart failure with reduced ejection fraction that is most likely secondary to cardiac sarcoidosis. Although sarcoidosis predominantly affects the lungs, cardiac sarcoidosis is found in up to 10% of patients with sarcoidosis at the time of autopsy, and the diagnosis should always be considered in patients with heart failure and concomitant pulmonary sarcoidosis. In patients with heart failure who have an ejection fraction less than 35%, continued symptoms despite maximally tolerated medical therapy, and expected survival of at least 1 year, ICD placement is indicated. When these criteria are accompanied by left bundle branch block with a QRS duration greater than or equal to 150 ms on electrocardiogram, as in this patient, CRT is also recommended. CRT improves left ventricular ejection fraction, functional capacity, and, most importantly, survival in symptomatic patients with an ejection fraction less than 35% and a wide QRS complex or left bundle branch block.
Diuretics, such as furosemide, are the principal therapy for volume overload in patients with heart failure. Patients should be treated with diuretics until they achieve a state of euvolemia. This patient does not have any evidence of volume overload and therefore does not require a diuretic.
β-Blockers, such as carvedilol, have a mortality benefit in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction. It is generally reasonable to increase the β-blocker dosage every 2 to 4 weeks until the patient achieves a heart rate of approximately 60/min or has symptomatic hypotension. In this patient with a current heart rate below 60/min, increasing the β-blocker dosage is inappropriate.
Although cardiac sarcoidosis can be difficult to diagnose, endomyocardial biopsy is not indicated in suggestive cases. Cardiac sarcoidosis results in patchy myocardial involvement, and a negative biopsy result would not be reassuring that cardiac sarcoidosis is not present. The two imaging modalities that are most sensitive for diagnosing cardiac sarcoidosis are cardiac magnetic resonance imaging and PET.
When sarcoidosis is first diagnosed, treatment with glucocorticoids can improve ejection fraction and reduce arrhythmias. This patient has already been treated with prednisone for 6 months, and further therapy is unlikely to result in additional improvement. Therefore, she should receive an ICD with CRT.

**Bibliography**

Russo AM, Stainback RF, Bailey SR, Epstein AE, Heidenreich PA, Jessup M, et al. ACCF/HRS/AHA/ASE/HFSA/SCAI/SCCT/SCMR 2013 appropriate use criteria for implantable cardioverter-defibrillators and cardiac resynchronization therapy: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation appropriate use criteria task force, Heart Rhythm Society, American Heart Association, American Society of Echocardiography, Heart Failure Society of America, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography, and Society for Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2013;61:1318-68. PMID: 23453819 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2012.12.017

This content was last updated in August 2018.