
### Correct Answer: D) Catheter ablation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat atrial flutter refractory to medical therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with symptomatic atrial flutter despite adequate medical therapy and rate control should undergo catheter ablation.

Catheter ablation is the most appropriate treatment for this patient with electrocardiographic evidence of atrial flutter. Atrial flutter is an organized macro-reentrant tachycardia with discrete regular atrial activity on electrocardiogram, usually with a rate of 250/min to 300/min. Typical atrial flutter is characterized electrocardiographically by a sawtooth pattern with inverted flutter waves in leads II, III, and aVF and positive flutter waves in lead V1. Management of atrial flutter is similar to that for atrial fibrillation and includes catheter ablation, antiarrhythmic drug therapy, and cardioversion. Catheter ablation is the definitive treatment for typical atrial flutter, owing to a very high success rate (>95%) and low complication rate. This patient with typical atrial flutter has symptoms (palpitations, fatigue, and exercise intolerance) despite adequate rate control with metoprolol, and treatment with catheter ablation offers the best balance of benefits and risks.
Antiarrhythmic drug therapy carries a high risk for recurrent atrial flutter and is therefore not the best option for this patient. Additionally, amiodarone is associated with substantial risk for end-organ toxicity, including thyroid dysfunction, neurologic side effects (such as tremor), liver dysfunction, and pulmonary toxicity.
Cardiac catheterization would be appropriate if there were a high pretest probability of obstructive coronary artery disease; however, this patient has normal findings on echocardiogram without evidence of stress-induced wall motion abnormalities.
Cardioversion to restore sinus rhythm could be considered, but this patient is hemodynamically stable and already has experienced a recurrence of atrial flutter after previous cardioversion. Cardioversion may therefore be ineffective for long-term control of the patient's symptoms.

**Bibliography**

Page RL, Joglar JA, Caldwell MA, Calkins H, Conti JB, Deal BJ, et al. 2015 ACC/AHA/HRS guideline for the management of adult patients with supraventricular tachycardia: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2016;67:e27-e115. PMID: 26409259 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2015.08.856

This content was last updated in August 2018.