
### Correct Answer: D) High-dose aspirin and colchicine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat acute pericarditis.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with acute pericarditis, first-line treatment is high-dose aspirin or NSAIDs and adjuvant colchicine therapy.

High-dose aspirin and colchicine are indicated in this patient with acute pericarditis without high-risk features. Acute pericarditis is diagnosed in this patient by the presence of sharp chest pain of acute onset without evidence of myocardial necrosis, an electrocardiogram demonstrating widespread ST-segment elevation and PR-segment depression, and a small pericardial effusion. The elevated C-reactive protein level also supports acute pericarditis. Admission to the hospital is appropriate for patients with acute pericarditis who have at least one high-risk feature, including high fever (temperature >38 °C [100.4 °F]), subacute onset (gradual onset over several days), large pericardial effusion (>20 mm), oral anticoagulation therapy, or immunosuppression. First-line therapy includes aspirin (750-1000 mg) or ibuprofen (600 mg) every 8 hours for 1 to 2 weeks plus colchicine (0.5 mg/d) for 3 months. In this patient, initiation of anti-inflammatory therapy with early outpatient follow-up is appropriate.
Pericardiocentesis is reserved for treatment of patients with tamponade or for diagnosis in patients with pericardial effusion when there is a high clinical suspicion of a malignant, bacterial, or fungal cause.
Cardiac catheterization would be appropriate in the setting of an ST-elevation myocardial infarction to facilitate percutaneous coronary intervention. However, the widespread ST-segment elevation on this patient's electrocardiogram is atypical for ST-elevation myocardial infarction, which more commonly causes ST-segment elevation within a specific vascular distribution. Furthermore, the lack of biomarker evidence of myocardial necrosis after prolonged chest pain does not support a diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome.
Although this patient has risk factors for coronary artery disease, exercise treadmill stress testing has no role. Additionally, in the setting of acute pericarditis, exercise-associated ST-T–wave changes are not interpretable for ischemic coronary artery disease.

**Bibliography**

Adler Y, Charron P, Imazio M, Badano L, Barón-Esquivias G, Bogaert J, et al; European Society of Cardiology (ESC). 2015 ESC guidelines for the diagnosis and management of pericardial diseases: the Task Force for the Diagnosis and Management of Pericardial Diseases of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC). Endorsed by the European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery (EACTS). Eur Heart J. 2015;36:2921-64. PMID: 26320112 doi:10.1093/eurheartj/ehv318

This content was last updated in August 2018.