
### Correct Answer: B) Cardiac syndrome X 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose cardiac syndrome X.

#### **Key Point:** Cardiac syndrome X is characterized by angina and stress testing abnormalities in the absence of angiographically significant coronary artery disease.

The most likely diagnosis is cardiac syndrome X. This relatively young patient with no traditional risk factors for coronary artery disease has typical angina, abnormal stress testing results, and angiographically normal coronary arteries. Cardiac syndrome X is a frequent cause of chest pain syndromes in women, and patients often present without traditional risk factors for coronary artery disease. The chest pain is often indistinguishable from classic exertional angina, and stress testing results are frequently abnormal. Many hypotheses have been proposed to explain the pathogenesis of cardiac syndrome X, with one of the most accepted centering on microvascular dysfunction as the cause. Although vasodilators should be tried, symptoms can be difficult to treat.
An acute coronary syndrome is unlikely given the lack of risk factors, duration of symptoms, and normal coronary angiogram.
Diagnostic criteria for somatic symptom disorder are as follows: at least one somatic symptom causing distress or interference with daily life; excessive thoughts, behaviors, and feelings related to the somatic symptoms; and persistent somatic symptoms for at least 6 months (does not have to be the same symptom for 6 months). This patient does not fulfill the diagnostic criteria for somatic symptom disorder.
Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, also known as stress cardiomyopathy or apical ballooning syndrome, is a cause of nonexertional chest pain associated with electrocardiographic changes (often ST-segment elevations) and elevated cardiac enzymes. There is often, but not always, an antecedent psychological or physical stressor. The timing and exertional nature of this patient's symptoms are not consistent with the diagnosis of takotsubo cardiomyopathy.

**Bibliography**

Löffler AI, Bourque JM. Coronary microvascular dysfunction, microvascular angina, and management. Curr Cardiol Rep. 2016;18:1. PMID: 26694723 doi:10.1007/s11886-015-0682-9

This content was last updated in August 2018.