
### Correct Answer: B) Initiate a supervised exercise program 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with intermittent claudication with supervised exercise training.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with intermittent claudication, supervised exercise training is recommended to improve symptoms and walking distance.

The most appropriate next step in the management of this patient with established peripheral artery disease (PAD) and symptoms of intermittent claudication is to initiate a supervised exercise program. In addition to medical therapy with cilostazol, supervised exercise training is recommended to improve symptoms and walking distance in patients with intermittent claudication. The recommended program consists of supervised exercise therapy for at least 30 to 45 minutes occurring at least 3 times per week for at least 12 weeks. A meta-analysis of 27 studies demonstrated that supervised exercise training was more effective than home-based exercise training for improvement in walking distance and claudication distance. However, there was no difference in general quality of life or community-based walking at 3 months. Unsupervised exercise programs are defined as walking advice or a structured home-based exercise program.
Antiplatelet therapy with aspirin or clopidogrel is recommended in patients with symptomatic PAD and can be considered in patients with asymptomatic PAD to reduce the risk for myocardial infarction, stroke, or vascular death. Dual antiplatelet therapy is not recommend in patients with PAD in the absence of other indications (drug-eluting stent placement or prosthetic distal lower extremity bypass) because of the increased risk for bleeding and the absence of evidence demonstrating improved clinical outcomes.
Approximately 2% to 4% of patients with stable claudication progress to critical limb ischemia or require surgical revascularization and/or amputation annually. In this patient with stable but progressive intermittent claudication, medical therapy and exercise training are indicated at this time; however, if conservative therapy fails or symptoms become life limiting, anatomic imaging with magnetic resonance angiography or CT angiography and subsequent revascularization (endovascular or surgical) would be appropriate.

**Bibliography**

Vemulapalli S, Dolor RJ, Hasselblad V, Schmit K, Banks A, Heidenfelder B, et al. Supervised vs unsupervised exercise for intermittent claudication: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Am Heart J. 2015;169:924-937.e3. PMID: 26027632 doi:10.1016/j.ahj.2015.03.009

This content was last updated in August 2018.