
### Correct Answer: D) Serum electrolyte measurement and kidney function studies 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with stable chronic heart failure.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with heart failure, each follow-up visit should include evaluation of current symptoms and functional capacity; assessment of volume status, electrolytes, and kidney function; and review of the patient's medication regimen for adequacy.

Serum electrolyte measurement and kidney function studies should be performed at this visit. In patients with heart failure, each follow-up visit should include evaluation of current symptoms and functional capacity; assessment of volume status, electrolytes, and kidney function; and review of the patient's medication regimen for adequacy. It is also important to reinforce heart failure education and the need for diet and medication adherence. This patient with stable chronic heart failure is taking appropriate medications, has had no changes in his symptoms or exercise tolerance, and has no evidence of volume overload. Because he is taking a diuretic, an angiotensin receptor blocker, and spironolactone, assessing his electrolyte levels and kidney function is appropriate.
Routine repeat echocardiography is not recommended in a stable patient with heart failure. According to current guidelines, repeat echocardiography should be performed if the patient has had a change in clinical status, received a new medication that might significantly improve ejection fraction (such as a β-blocker), or is being considered for device therapy after medical optimization.
Twenty-four hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring is not indicated to routinely screen for arrhythmias in patients with heart failure in the absence of symptoms or signs worrisome for an arrhythmia.
The B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) level has prognostic value in patients with heart failure and can be used to determine whether heart failure is progressing. However, determining a prognosis according to an absolute value is difficult, and models that have used BNP levels have different BNP cutpoints and lengths of follow-up. At this time, a BNP level is not routinely obtained in an otherwise stable patient. Other biomarkers of myocardial fibrosis, such as soluble ST2 receptor and galectin-3, have been shown to be predictive of death and hospitalization in small trials, but their role in the management of patients with heart failure is not yet established.

**Bibliography**

Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, Butler J, Casey DE Jr, Drazner MH, et al; American College of Cardiology Foundation; American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the management of heart failure: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2013 Oct 15;62(16):e147-239. PMID: 23747642

This content was last updated in August 2018.