
### Correct Answer: B) Electrophysiology study 

**Educational Objective:** Manage Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Patients suspected of having Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome should undergo electrophysiology testing for risk stratification for sudden cardiac death.

The most appropriate next step in management is an electrophysiology study. This young woman with a history of palpitations and paroxysms of dyspnea and lightheadedness likely has atrioventricular reciprocating tachycardia associated with an accessory pathway between the atria and ventricles. Accessory pathway conduction is often observed as preexcitation on electrocardiogram (ECG). Because of early ventricular activation over the accessory pathway, the PR interval is shortened, and the initial part of the QRS complex is slurred (delta wave) because of ventricular depolarization adjacent to the pathway. Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is characterized by preexcitation on ECG accompanied by symptoms consistent with tachycardia. Symptoms concerning for arrhythmia in a patient with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome should prompt referral to a cardiologist or an electrophysiologist. In these patients, it is also important to obtain an echocardiogram to exclude structural heart disease associated with accessory pathways, including Ebstein anomaly.
In this case, the patient's symptomatic episodes could be caused by supraventricular tachycardia (orthodromic or antidromic reciprocating tachycardia) or preexcited atrial fibrillation. A diagnostic electrophysiology study is indicated to uncover the cause of her palpitations and to determine her risk for sudden cardiac death. The electrophysiology procedure also affords the opportunity to ablate the accessory pathway and potentially cure the arrhythmia. The cure rate of catheter ablation is as high as 95% to 99% in patients with an uncomplicated accessory pathway.
Atenolol and verapamil are atrioventricular nodal blockers and may be unsafe if the patient has anterograde conduction down the accessory pathway during atrial fibrillation. These drugs promote rapid 1:1 conduction from the atria to the ventricles over the accessory pathway during atrial fibrillation, which can lead to very rapid ventricular rates and ventricular fibrillation.
Flecainide is an antiarrhythmic drug that is frequently used to treat paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and other arrhythmias. Flecainide is not indicated in this patient because the type and mechanism of the arrhythmia are unknown. This patient requires risk stratification, which can be accomplished with an electrophysiology study. Furthermore, the age of the patient should be considered before antiarrhythmic therapy is initiated. Catheter ablation is preferred in young persons to avoid lifelong use of potentially toxic medications. This young woman may also wish to avoid these types of medications if she will be considering pregnancy in the future.

**Bibliography**

Delacrétaz E. Clinical practice. Supraventricular tachycardia. N Engl J Med. 2006;354:1039-51. PMID: 16525141

This content was last updated in August 2018.