
### Correct Answer: A) Advise against pregnancy 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient with Marfan syndrome who is considering pregnancy.

#### **Key Point:** Women with Marfan syndrome have an increased risk for pregnancy-related aortic dissection and rupture.

The most appropriate management is to advise against pregnancy in this patient with Marfan syndrome and a dilated aorta. All women with Marfan syndrome have an increased risk for pregnancy-related aortic dissection and rupture. In women with Marfan syndrome and an ascending aortic diameter of 4.5 cm or greater, aortic repair surgery is recommended before pregnancy to reduce this risk. Some women with Marfan syndrome and an aortic diameter less than 4.5 cm, including those with rapid dilatation of the ascending aorta or a family history of aortic dissection, are at high risk for dissection during pregnancy and are counseled to have surgery before pregnancy. Generally, pregnancy is considered safe if the aortic diameter is smaller than 4.0 cm.
This patient is asymptomatic with normal left ventricular size and function and mild mitral regurgitation; therefore, she does not meet the criteria for mitral valve intervention. Although the mitral valve may warrant intervention at some point, this patient's dilated aorta is the major determinant of pregnancy risk.
Patients with Marfan syndrome who are considering pregnancy should have an aortic dimension smaller than 4.0 to 4.5 cm, with demonstrated stability for 6 months or longer. This patient does not meet these criteria, and repeat imaging demonstrating aortic stability will not provide reassurance about future pregnancy. Owing to the size of the aorta, this patient should be advised to avoid pregnancy and consider elective surgical repair. If she elects not to proceed with pregnancy or surgical repair at this time, repeat aortic root imaging should be performed in 6 months to confirm stability of the aortic dimensions.
Angiotensin receptor blockers, such as losartan, are considered second-line agents to β-blocker therapy for the control of hypertension and slowing aortic root expansion in patients with Marfan syndrome. Furthermore, ACE inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers are contraindicated during pregnancy because of fetal toxicity. Fetal exposure to these agents during the first trimester can cause central nervous system and cardiovascular malformations, and exposure during the second trimester can cause developmental malformations of the kidneys and genitourinary system.

**Bibliography**

Regitz-Zagrosek V, Blomstrom Lundqvist C, Borghi C, Cifkova R, Ferreira R, Foidart JM, et al; European Society of Gynecology (ESG). ESC guidelines on the management of cardiovascular diseases during pregnancy: the Task Force on the Management of Cardiovascular Diseases during Pregnancy of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC). Eur Heart J. 2011;32:3147-97. PMID: 21873418 doi:10.1093/eurheartj/ehr218

This content was last updated in August 2018.