
### Correct Answer: D) Papillary fibroelastoma 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose a papillary fibroelastoma.

#### **Key Point:** Papillary fibroelastomas are small, independently mobile cardiac tumors that are typically attached to the left-sided valvular endocardium by a stalk; they may be associated with stroke, transient ischemic attack, angina, myocardial infarction, and peripheral embolization.

This patient's clinical history, physical examination findings, and echocardiographic features are most consistent with a papillary fibroelastoma (PFE). The echocardiographic images (shown) reveal a PFE (arrows) arising from the mitral valve. Most PFEs are small (averaging 12 mm × 9 mm), independently mobile, and attached to the endocardium by a stalk. They are more commonly associated with left-sided valves than right-sided valves or other endocardial surfaces. Patients may present with symptoms of embolism (including stroke or transient ischemic attack), angina, myocardial infarction, and peripheral embolization. PFE may also be discovered incidentally on echocardiogram. Surgery is indicated for symptomatic patients with PFE with acceptable operative risk. The treatment of asymptomatic patients with left heart PFE is controversial, although in one large case series, the risks for stroke and death were higher in patients who did not have surgery.
Bacterial endocarditis is less likely in this patient given the absence of constitutional symptoms, evidence of systemic inflammation, a predisposing valvular lesion, and risk factors for bacteremia (such as dental cleaning or injectable drug use).
Left atrial myxomas may cause cerebral embolic phenomena; however, most myxomas are substantially larger than fibroelastomas and are associated with obstructive symptoms and, in 10% to 15% of patients, an auscultatory “tumor plop.” In 75% of cases, myxomas arise within the left atrium attached to the fossa ovalis, not valvular surfaces. Constitutional symptoms, such as fever, anorexia, and weight loss, related to tumor interleukin production may also be present.
Nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis (NBTE), also known as verrucous, marantic, or Libman-Sacks endocarditis, is likely caused by endothelial injury in the presence of a hypercoagulable state. NBTE occurs on the atrial surface of the mitral valve, the ventricular side of the aortic valve, or both locations. Vegetations are typically small (<1 cm), broad based, and irregularly shaped (wart-like) and are most commonly associated with advanced malignancy or connective tissue disorders. This patient does not have evidence of a predisposing condition for NBTE, and the lesion does not have a wart-like or broad-based appearance.

**Bibliography**

Val-Bernal JF, Mayorga M, Garijo MF, Val D, Nistal JF. Cardiac papillary fibroelastoma: retrospective clinicopathologic study of 17 tumors with resection at a single institution and literature review. Pathol Res Pract. 2013;209:208-14. PMID: 23455367 doi:10.1016/j.prp.2013.02.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.