
### Correct Answer: D) Short-course iron therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat iron deficiency anemia in a patient with cyanotic congenital heart disease.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with cyanotic conditions, such as Eisenmenger syndrome, iron deficiency is common, and short-term iron therapy will improve exercise capacity and quality of life.

The most appropriate management is initiation of a short course of iron therapy for this patient with Eisenmenger syndrome and symptomatic postoperative anemia. Most patients with cyanosis have compensated erythrocytosis with stable hemoglobin levels. Iron deficiency and resultant microcytosis in these patients is often caused by inappropriate phlebotomy or blood loss. Correction of iron deficiency is associated with increased exercise capacity and improved quality of life. This patient's baseline hemoglobin level was greater than 18 g/dL (180 g/L). She developed preoperative anemia and subsequent perioperative anemia that has persisted and caused dyspnea and fatigue. Oral iron therapy often causes a rapid increase in erythrocyte mass and requires careful monitoring. Administration of ferrous sulfate or ferrous gluconate is recommended with repeat hemoglobin assessment in 7 to 10 days. Once the serum ferritin level or transferrin saturation is within the normal range, iron supplementation may be discontinued. It is important not to exceed the acceptable serum ferritin level. In the absence of dehydration, a hemoglobin level greater than 20 g/dL (200 g/L) and a hematocrit level greater than 65% are associated with hyperviscosity symptoms, such as headache, difficulty concentrating, weakness, and fatigue.
Erythropoietin is used primarily in patients with anemia related to kidney disease. Iron therapy, not erythropoietin, is recommended for patients with cyanotic cardiac disease with iron deficiency anemia. This patient with cyanotic congenital heart disease and relative anemia is likely to have an elevated erythropoietin level; erythropoietin therapy for this patient will be expensive, likely ineffective, and potentially dangerous.
Heart-lung transplantation is an option for end-stage cardiopulmonary disease in patients with Eisenmenger syndrome; however, it is not indicated without a trial of standard medical therapy with iron.
Limited data are available regarding the efficacy of epoprostenol in patients with Eisenmenger syndrome and pulmonary hypertension. Intravenous epoprostenol is typically avoided because of the risk for paradoxical embolism with continuous intravenous therapy in patients with an intracardiac right-to-left shunt. Oral, subcutaneous, and inhaled therapies are preferred. However, this patient's symptoms are likely the result of iron deficiency, and a trial of iron replacement is first-line therapy.

**Bibliography**

Tay EL, Peset A, Papaphylactou M, Inuzuka R, Alonso-Gonzalez R, Giannakoulas G, et al. Replacement therapy for iron deficiency improves exercise capacity and quality of life in patients with cyanotic congenital heart disease and/or the Eisenmenger syndrome. Int J Cardiol. 2011;151:307-12. PMID: 20580108 doi:10.1016/j.ijcard.2010.05.066

This content was last updated in August 2018.