
### Correct Answer: B) Full-dose reteplase 

**Educational Objective:** Treat ST-elevation myocardial infarction with thrombolytic therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Thrombolytic therapy is recommended for patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction when symptom onset is within 12 hours and primary percutaneous coronary intervention is not available within 120 minutes of first medical contact.

The most appropriate management of this patient with an acute inferior ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) is to administer full-dose reteplase. All patients who present with STEMI within 12 hours of symptom onset require prompt restoration of flow with primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or thrombolytic therapy. When a hospital is capable of performing primary PCI or the patient can be transferred from an index hospital to a PCI-capable center quickly (to achieve an expected first medical contact–to–device time of 120 minutes or less), primary PCI is the preferred treatment option. Primary PCI is associated with higher rates of vessel patency and improved overall survival compared with thrombolytic therapy. In this case, transfer time is prohibitively long, and the patient is best treated with immediate thrombolysis with reteplase. After administration of thrombolytic therapy, the patient should be transferred to a PCI-capable center for rescue PCI in case of thrombolytic failure or for nonemergent angiography before discharge.
Evidence supports the efficacy of fondaparinux and ticagrelor as antithrombotic therapies in the setting of STEMI; however, neither agent will likely result in lysis of a clot. These drugs remain adjuvant treatment to a primary thrombolytic strategy.
Half-dose thrombolytic therapy in combination with glycoprotein IIb/IIIa blockade does not offer any additional benefit compared with full-dose thrombolysis in patients with STEMI.
Nitroprusside is a powerful vasodilator and has no role in the management of STEMI. Venodilators, such as nitrates and nitroprusside, must be used with caution in the setting of inferior myocardial infarction because they may result in significant drops in systolic blood pressure, particularly when associated with right ventricular infarction.

**Bibliography**

O’Gara PT, Kushner FG, Ascheim DD, Casey DE Jr, Chung MK, de Lemos JA, et al; American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2013;127:e362-425. PMID: 23247304 doi:10.1161/CIR.0b013e3182742cf6

This content was last updated in August 2018.