
### Correct Answer: C) Toe-brachial index 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose peripheral artery disease in a patient with noncompressible arteries.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with an ankle-brachial index greater than 1.40, a toe-brachial index may be used to diagnose peripheral artery disease.

The most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next in this patient is a toe-brachial index. The diagnostic tool that is most frequently used to identify peripheral artery disease (PAD) is the ankle-brachial index (ABI). To calculate the ABI, the higher ankle pressure in each leg is divided by the higher brachial pressure. An ABI of 0.90 or lower establishes a diagnosis of PAD, whereas an ABI greater than 1.40 indicates the presence of calcified, noncompressible arteries in the lower extremities and is considered uninterpretable. In patients with an ABI greater than 1.40, an appropriate next step is to measure toe pressure or calculate a toe-brachial index (systolic great toe pressure divided by systolic brachial pressure). A great toe systolic pressure below 40 mm Hg or a toe-brachial index below 0.70 is consistent with PAD. Because this patient has a left ABI of 1.65, a toe-brachial index is indicated.
Exercise ABI testing is useful when patients have a borderline ABI (0.91-1.00) or normal ABI (1.00-1.40) and a high likelihood of PAD. The American Heart Association has proposed a postexercise ankle pressure decrease of more than 30 mm Hg or a postexercise ABI decrease of more than 20% as a diagnostic criterion for PAD. Other organizations have proposed a postexercise ABI of less than 0.90 and/or a 30–mm Hg drop in ankle pressure after exercise. This patient's resting ABI value is greater than 1.40; therefore, exercise ABI is not indicated to diagnose PAD.
CT angiography and magnetic resonance angiography are often reserved for planning endovascular or surgical revascularization rather than for diagnosis of PAD.
In patients with venous leg ulcers, venous duplex ultrasonography is indicated to evaluate for chronic venous insufficiency and deep vein thrombosis (acute or chronic). The location of the ulceration and the lack of other findings consistent with venous disease make that diagnosis unlikely, and venous duplex ultrasonography is therefore unnecessary.

**Bibliography**

Aboyans V, Criqui MH, Abraham P, Allison MA, Creager MA, Diehm C, et al; American Heart Association Council on Peripheral Vascular Disease. Measurement and interpretation of the ankle-brachial index: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association. Circulation. 2012;126:2890-909. PMID: 23159553 doi:10.1161/CIR.0b013e318276fbcb

This content was last updated in August 2018.