
### Correct Answer: B) Cardiac valve surgery 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with infective endocarditis and refractory bacteremia with cardiac valve surgery.

#### **Key Point:** For patients with infective endocarditis, cardiac surgery is indicated for persistent infection lasting longer than 5 to 7 days while on appropriate antimicrobial therapy; symptomatic heart failure; left-sided involvement with Staphylococcus aureus, fungal infections, or highly resistant organisms; complications such as heart block, annular or aortic abscess, or destructive penetrating lesions; and prosthetic valve infective endocarditis and relapsing infection.

The most appropriate next step in management is cardiac valve surgery. This patient has infective endocarditis with refractory bacteremia. For patients such as this one, cardiac surgery is the most appropriate next step when there is evidence of persistent infection lasting longer than 5 to 7 days while the patient is receiving appropriate antimicrobial therapy. Cardiac surgery also is recommended for patients with infective endocarditis who have the following: symptomatic heart failure; left-sided involvement with Staphylococcus aureus, fungal infections, or highly resistant organisms; associated complications, such as heart block, annular or aortic abscess, or destructive penetrating lesions; or prosthetic valve infective endocarditis and relapsing infection.
Cardiac catheterization is not indicated in this patient and may increase the risk for embolization of vegetation or worsen hemodynamic status. Cardiac catheterization before planned cardiac surgery is indicated in patients with risk factors for coronary artery disease, which are not present in this patient.
The most common indications for intervention with an intra-aortic balloon pump are cardiogenic shock unresponsive to other interventions and acute mitral regurgitation. This patient does not have any indication for an intra-aortic balloon pump. Additionally, an intra-aortic balloon pump is contraindicated in the presence of significant aortic regurgitation, as seen in this patient, because it will increase the volume of regurgitant blood flow.
Surgical intervention should not be delayed for observation of the patient's response to another antibiotic once surgical indications have been met. In this patient, switching to another antibiotic without immediate surgical intervention may result in further decompensation of the patient's clinical status and an increased operative risk for intervention at a later time.

**Bibliography**

Baddour LM, Wilson WR, Bayer AS, Fowler VG Jr, Tleyjeh IM, Rybak MJ, et al; American Heart Association Committee on Rheumatic Fever, Endocarditis, and Kawasaki Disease of the Council on Cardiovascular Disease in the Young, Council on Clinical Cardiology, Council on Cardiovascular Surgery and Anesthesia, and Stroke Council. Infective endocarditis in adults: diagnosis, antimicrobial therapy, and management of complications: a scientific statement for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association. Circulation. 2015;132:1435-86. PMID: 26373316 doi:10.1161/CIR.0000000000000296

This content was last updated in August 2018.