
### Correct Answer: A) Add carvedilol 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with heart failure and evidence of conduction delay.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with left ventricular dysfunction due to ischemic cardiomyopathy, left bundle branch block, and heart failure symptoms should receive guideline-directed medical therapy before initiation of device therapy.

The most appropriate treatment is the addition of carvedilol. This patient with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction has New York Heart Association functional class III symptoms. Guideline-directed medical therapy for heart failure includes treatment with an ACE inhibitor, β-blocker (specifically, metoprolol succinate, carvedilol, or bisoprolol), and an aldosterone antagonist. β-Blockers improve remodeling, increase ejection fraction, and reduce hospitalization and mortality when added to an ACE inhibitor and diuretic therapy. This patient is not taking a β-blocker; therefore, the most important intervention would be initiation of carvedilol to optimize the patient's medical therapy. It should be noted that the American College of Cardiology Heart Failure Toolkit () advises that β-blockers should be used with caution in patients with second-degree atrioventricular block, such as this one.
In patients with chronic symptomatic heart failure and left ventricular ejection fraction less than or equal to 35% who are in sinus rhythm and taking maximally tolerated doses of a β-blocker, ivabradine reduces heart failure–associated hospitalizations and the combined endpoint of mortality and heart failure hospitalization. Because this patient is not taking a β-blocker, ivabradine is not indicated.
Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) is indicated for primary prevention of sudden cardiac death and to reduce the risk for hospitalization and death in patients with heart failure who have dyssynchrony. Criteria for CRT include an ejection fraction of less than or equal to 35%, New York Heart Association functional class II to IV heart failure symptoms despite guideline-directed medical therapy, sinus rhythm, and left bundle branch block with a QRS complex of 150 ms or greater. This patient fulfills the echocardiographic and electrocardiographic criteria for CRT, and if he continues to have refractory heart failure despite guideline-directed medical therapy for 90 days, he would be a candidate for CRT.
An ICD would protect this patient against sudden cardiac death; however, medical therapy is necessary first to alleviate his heart failure symptoms and improve his functional status. Many patients with new-onset heart failure experience significant improvements in ejection fraction with medical therapy and may not require or benefit from ICD placement.

**Bibliography**

Epstein AE, DiMarco JP, Ellenbogen KA, Estes NA 3rd, Freedman RA, Gettes LS, et al; American College of Cardiology Foundation. 2012 ACCF/AHA/HRS focused update incorporated into the ACCF/AHA/HRS 2008 guidelines for device-based therapy of cardiac rhythm abnormalities: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2013;61:e6-75. PMID: 23265327 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2012.11.007

This content was last updated in March 2019.