
### Correct Answer: D) Primary restrictive cardiomyopathy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose primary restrictive cardiomyopathy.

#### **Key Point:** Restrictive cardiomyopathy is distinguished from constrictive pericarditis by an elevated B-type natriuretic peptide level and concordant rise and fall of left and right systolic pressures with respiration.

The most likely diagnosis is primary restrictive cardiomyopathy. Patients with constrictive pericarditis and restrictive cardiomyopathy present with similar symptoms and findings on echocardiography, and differentiation is an essential first step in diagnosis. In this patient, several features favor restrictive physiology: the elevated B-type natriuretic peptide level (often <100 pg/mL [100 ng/L] in constrictive pericarditis), the presence of severe pulmonary hypertension, the absence of pericardial thickening on cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, and the presence of delayed enhancement of myocardium consistent with myocardial fibrosis on cardiac magnetic resonance imaging. This patient's simultaneous right and left ventricular hemodynamic recordings demonstrate concordant rise and fall of systolic pressures with respiration. In constriction, an inverse relationship or discordance is present because of ventricular interdependence: right ventricular systolic pressure rises during inspiration coupled with a simultaneous decrease in left ventricular systolic pressure.
Fabry disease is a lysosomal storage disorder. Clinical manifestations begin in childhood and progress in an orderly fashion, with up to 70% of the following manifestations appearing by age 40 years: neuropathic pain, telangiectasias and angiokeratomas, and proteinuria and chronic kidney disease. The most common cardiac complications are concentric left ventricular hypertrophy, heart failure, coronary artery disease, left-sided valvular dysfunction, and conduction abnormalities. This patient's late onset of cardiac symptoms and lack of other findings make Fabry disease unlikely.
Although wall thickness may be normal in patients with hemochromatosis, the left ventricle is usually dilated, and the serum ferritin level would be greatly elevated in a patient with visceral involvement.

**Bibliography**

Garcia MJ. Constrictive pericarditis versus restrictive cardiomyopathy? J Am Coll Cardiol. 2016;67:2061-76. PMID: 27126534 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2016.01.076

This content was last updated in August 2018.