
### Correct Answer: B) Surgical mitral valve repair 

**Educational Objective:** Treat degenerative mitral regurgitation with surgical mitral valve repair.

#### **Key Point:** Mitral valve repair is strongly recommended for chronic severe primary mitral regurgitation in symptomatic patients with left ventricular ejection fraction greater than 30%, asymptomatic patients with left ventricular dysfunction, and patients undergoing another cardiac surgical procedure.

The most appropriate next step in management is surgical mitral valve repair. Myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve is common, affecting 1% to 2% of the general population. In 10% of patients, the valvular lesion can progress, become life threatening, and require surgery. The only definitive therapy for severe mitral regurgitation is mitral valve surgery. Options are mitral valve repair, mitral valve replacement with preservation of part or all of the mitral apparatus, and mitral valve replacement with removal of the mitral apparatus. Mitral valve repair is generally preferred to valve replacement because it is associated with improved survival in retrospective studies. Mitral valve repair is strongly recommended for chronic severe primary mitral regurgitation in (1) symptomatic patients with left ventricular ejection fraction greater than 30%, (2) asymptomatic patients with left ventricular dysfunction (left ventricular ejection fraction of 30%-60% and/or left ventricular end-systolic diameter ≥40 mm), and (3) patients undergoing another cardiac surgical procedure. Additionally, mitral valve repair is reasonable in asymptomatic patients with chronic severe primary mitral regurgitation who have new-onset atrial fibrillation or pulmonary hypertension (pulmonary artery systolic pressure >50 mm Hg). Notably, a left ventricular ejection fraction of 60% or less is used in defining left ventricular systolic dysfunction in mitral regurgitation because ventricular emptying into the left atrium contributes to the relatively lower afterload conditions and higher ejection fraction despite impaired left ventricular performance.
Serial evaluations every 6 to 12 months are recommended for patients with severe mitral regurgitation who do not have indications for surgery. This patient meets the criteria for surgery; therefore, serial evaluations would not be appropriate at this time.
Many patients who could benefit from mitral valve repair are denied surgery because of high surgical risk, advanced age, or comorbid conditions. A catheter-based device can improve mitral valve function by delivering a clip percutaneously to approximate the valve leaflet edges and improve leaflet coaptation at the origin of the mitral regurgitation jet. The device is approved for patients with significant symptomatic degenerative mitral regurgitation for whom mitral valve surgery poses a prohibitive risk. This patient is healthy and does not have comorbid conditions that would significantly increase surgical risk; therefore, transcatheter repair is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Foster E. Clinical practice. Mitral regurgitation due to degenerative mitral-valve disease. N Engl J Med. 2010;363:156-65. PMID: 20647211 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp0906782

This content was last updated in March 2019.