
### Correct Answer: C) Medical therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat acute descending aortic dissection.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with uncomplicated type B aortic dissection may be initially treated with medical therapy, including β-blockers, sodium nitroprusside, and opioids.

The most appropriate initial step in the management of this patient is initiation of medical therapy. Patients with type B acute aortic dissection without evidence of cardiogenic shock should be initially treated with medical therapy to control heart rate and reduce blood pressure. Intravenous β-blockers are first-line treatment, and sodium nitroprusside can be added if hypertension does not completely respond to β-blocker therapy. Current guidelines recommend reducing systolic blood pressure to 120 mm Hg or less in the first hour in patients with aortic dissection. Pain control is best accomplished with intravenous opioids. In patients with ascending aortic dissection (type A aortic dissection), intramural aortic hematoma, or descending aortic dissection (type B aortic dissection) with complications, immediate repair is warranted. Complications are defined as refractory pain, rapid aneurysmal expansion, rupture, or malperfusion syndrome. This patient has a type B aortic dissection arising just distal to the origin of the left subclavian artery with no evidence of complications. Therefore, medical therapy is the most appropriate treatment.
Endovascular stenting can be used to treat patients with descending aortic aneurysms; however, there is scant evidence to support this as an initial treatment option for aneurysm with dissection. After medical stabilization, thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) with stent grafting can be used; typical indications include descending aortic aneurysm diameter greater than 6.0 cm, rapid growth (>0.5 cm/year), or end-organ damage. TEVAR has the advantage over surgical operation of lower morbidity and shorter hospital stay, although there may be complications, including stroke, spinal ischemia, and aortic graft endoleaks. This patient should be treated with stent implantation only after medical stabilization.
Open surgical repair of the descending aorta is not recommended in patients with uncomplicated type B aortic dissection because of high rates of morbidity (such as paraplegia) and mortality. This patient has no signs or symptoms of complications that would prompt immediate surgical repair.
Repeat CT angiography at 12 hours is not indicated unless the patient does not stabilize with medical therapy. Serial imaging (usually magnetic resonance angiography) is typically performed in asymptomatic patients at the time of discharge and then periodically in patients who do not have an indication for aneurysmal repair to screen for extension or recurrence of the dissection, aneurysm formation, and leakage.

**Bibliography**

Mussa FF, Horton JD, Moridzadeh R, Nicholson J, Trimarchi S, Eagle KA. Acute aortic dissection and intramural hematoma: a systematic review. JAMA. 2016;316:754-63. PMID: 27533160 doi:10.1001/jama.2016.10026

This content was last updated in August 2018.