
### Correct Answer: C) Pericardiocentesis 

**Educational Objective:** Treat cardiac tamponade.

#### **Key Point:** Definitive treatment of cardiac tamponade is pericardiocentesis or surgical pericardial drainage.

The most appropriate management is pericardiocentesis. This patient is taking minoxidil and hydralazine, both of which may be associated with the development of a pericardial effusion (PE). Tamponade occurs when intrapericardial pressure exceeds diastolic intracardiac pressures, which leads to compression of cardiac chambers and limits diastolic filling, stroke volume, and cardiac output, with a simultaneous increase in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure that leads to pulmonary edema. Definitive treatment of cardiac tamponade is pericardiocentesis or surgical pericardial drainage. In hemodynamically unstable patients, intravenous normal saline is used to stabilize the patient as a temporizing measure or bridge to definitive therapy. Despite the evidence of fluid overload, intravenous volume loading can help maintain or increase cardiac output. Low systolic blood pressure (<100 mm Hg) is the most readily accessible clinical finding that is predictive of a favorable response to volume loading.
Hemodialysis will decrease right heart filling pressure but not intrapericardial pressure, resulting in further compression of the intracardiac chamber and reduction in cardiac output. Similarly, intravenous loop diuretics or agents that actively dilate capacitance vessels, such as nitroglycerin, should be avoided because they will result in a relative increase in intrapericardial pressure to intracardiac pressure and further impair cardiac output.
Right heart catheterization is not typically performed in the diagnosis of cardiac tamponade. Echocardiography readily detects pericardial effusions and is the primary modality for diagnosing cardiac tamponade. Echocardiographic signs of cardiac tamponade include diastolic collapse of the right atrium and right ventricle, ventricular septal shifting with respiration, and enlargement of the inferior vena cava. An apical four-chamber echocardiographic view demonstrating PE with diastolic inversion (arrow) of the right atrium (RA) free wall is shown. With Doppler echocardiography, respiratory variation in mitral inflow can be detected early in the evolution of tamponade. In the pulsed-wave Doppler image, there is a significant and reproducible decrease (>25%) in passive diastolic flow during inspiration, which reflects enhanced ventricular interdependence. Changes in mitral inflow are highly sensitive and may precede changes in cardiac output, blood pressure, and other echocardiographic evidence of tamponade.

**Bibliography**

Adler Y, Charron P, Imazio M, Badano L, Barón-Esquivias G, Bogaert J, et al; European Society of Cardiology (ESC). 2015 ESC guidelines for the diagnosis and management of pericardial diseases: the Task Force for the Diagnosis and Management of Pericardial Diseases of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) endorsed by: The European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery (EACTS). Eur Heart J. 2015;36:2921-64. PMID: 26320112 doi:10.1093/eurheartj/ehv318

This content was last updated in August 2018.