
### Correct Answer: D) Ticagrelor-mediated side effect 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose ticagrelor-related dyspnea.

#### **Key Point:** Dyspnea is a well-recognized and often self-limited side effect of ticagrelor therapy.

Ticagrelor is the most likely cause of dyspnea in this patient with a normal physical examination, no electrocardiographic changes, and normal findings on imaging studies. Ticagrelor is a P2Y12 inhibitor that may be used as a component of dual antiplatelet therapy in select patients with coronary artery disease, including those treated with percutaneous coronary intervention. Dyspnea is a well-recognized side effect of ticagrelor therapy. In clinical trials, 15% to 20% of patients taking ticagrelor experienced dyspnea, although only 5% to 7% required cessation of the drug. In most cases, ticagrelor-mediated dyspnea is self-limited, but it often results in additional testing.
Heart failure can complicate myocardial infarction. In this case, however, the normal findings on physical examination, chest radiograph, and echocardiogram make heart failure an unlikely cause of the patient's symptoms.
In patients with shortness of breath after myocardial infarction, it is important to rule out complications of recent percutaneous coronary intervention, such as in-stent stenosis and stent thrombosis. Patients with in-stent restenosis will exhibit recurrent signs and symptoms of ischemia, including chest pain and dyspnea; however, in-stent restenosis develops months to years after stent implantation, not weeks. In contrast to in-stent restenosis, stent thrombosis is usually a fulminant event, commonly manifesting as acute myocardial infarction or death. The timing and persistent nature of this patient's symptoms, coupled with the unchanged electrocardiographic findings, rule out stent thrombosis as a cause of this patient's symptoms.
Ventricular septal defect (VSD) resulting from rupture of the intraventricular septum is a rare complication of transmural infarction involving the right coronary artery (in which the VSD tends to affect the basal inferior septum) or the left anterior descending artery (in which the VSD is usually located within the apical septum). VSDs typically occur within 3 to 5 days of STEMI presentation. Patients present with worsening heart failure and shock, and a harsh holosystolic murmur may be heard at the left lower sternal border. A small NSTEMI would not result in a VSD, and the laboratory and physical examination findings rule out this diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Bonaca MP, Bhatt DL, Cohen M, Steg PG, Storey RF, Jensen EC, et al; PEGASUS-TIMI 54 Steering Committee and Investigators. Long-term use of ticagrelor in patients with prior myocardial infarction. N Engl J Med. 2015;372:1791-800. PMID: 25773268 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1500857

This content was last updated in August 2018.