
### Correct Answer: D) Takotsubo cardiomyopathy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose takotsubo cardiomyopathy.

#### **Key Point:** Takotsubo cardiomyopathy is a syndrome of reversible ventricular systolic dysfunction that is usually precipitated by an acute emotional or physiologic stressor; the hallmark is wall motion abnormalities that extend beyond a single coronary territory, identified by echocardiography or other imaging studies.

Takotsubo cardiomyopathy is the most likely diagnosis. This previously healthy patient has symptoms and findings suggestive of an acute coronary syndrome. Cardiac catheterization demonstrates normal coronary arteries and wall motion abnormalities that do not follow one vascular territory, findings that are consistent with takotsubo cardiomyopathy. Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, or stress-induced cardiomyopathy, is a heart failure syndrome that typically occurs in older women and is usually precipitated by a stressful physical or emotional event, such as the death of a loved one, sudden surprise, or other acute stressors. It is associated with electrocardiographic changes suggestive of an acute myocardial infarction or a moderate increase in troponin levels, wall motion changes that extend beyond the territory of a single coronary artery, and normal or near-normal coronary arteries (<50% stenosis). Patients with a drop in ejection fraction should be treated with standard heart failure medications and typically have rapid recovery of left ventricular function.
Acute myocarditis usually presents with heart failure symptoms that develop over a few days to weeks. Occasionally, patients have symptoms for several months before heart failure is discovered. The classic presentation of viral myocarditis includes a viral prodrome with fever, myalgia, and upper respiratory tract symptoms. Patients present with dyspnea, chest pain, and arrhythmias. Electrocardiographic abnormalities are often present, along with evidence of myocardial damage with persistently elevated troponin levels. Acute-onset symptoms following an emotional event and apical ballooning on left ventriculography are not seen in acute myocarditis.
Giant cell myocarditis is an acute, rapidly progressive form of myocarditis associated with ventricular arrhythmias and progressive cardiac dysfunction despite medical therapy. This process usually occurs in persons younger than 40 years. The underlying mechanism is unknown but is thought to be autoimmune in origin. This patient's age and presentation are not compatible with giant cell myocarditis.
Tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy is related to prolonged tachycardia or frequent premature ventricular contractions. Patients usually have findings related to the tachyarrhythmia (for example, palpitations) and heart failure. This patient's acute presentation is inconsistent with tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy.

**Bibliography**

Sharkey SW. A clinical perspective of the takotsubo syndrome. Heart Fail Clin. 2016;12:507-20. PMID: 27638021 doi:10.1016/j.hfc.2016.06.003

This content was last updated in August 2018.