
### Correct Answer: C) Pulmonary balloon valvuloplasty 

**Educational Objective:** Treat symptomatic severe pulmonary valve stenosis.

#### **Key Point:** Balloon valvuloplasty is recommended for patients with symptomatic pulmonary valve stenosis who have appropriate valve morphology, a peak Doppler gradient of greater than 50 mm Hg or a mean gradient greater than 30 mm Hg, and valve characteristics favorable for percutaneous intervention.

Balloon valvuloplasty is the most appropriate management of this patient. The palpable, late-peaking systolic murmur located at the second left intercostal space; absence of an ejection click; and features of right ventricular pressure overload suggest severe pulmonary valve stenosis. The echocardiogram confirms the presence of severe pulmonary valve stenosis with a peak systolic gradient of 65 mm Hg and mean systolic gradient of 50 mm Hg. Balloon valvuloplasty is recommended for symptomatic patients with appropriate valve morphology who have a peak Doppler gradient of greater than 50 mm Hg or a mean gradient greater than 30 mm Hg and favorable valve characteristics for percutaneous intervention.
Patients with pulmonary valve stenosis without a history of endocarditis or pulmonary valve replacement do not require endocarditis prophylaxis.
Exercise stress testing could help determine whether the patient has exercise limitations related to her pulmonary valve stenosis; however, the results would not change the recommendation for intervention.
Surgical pulmonary valve replacement should be considered when the valve is dysplastic or when more than moderate coexisting pulmonary valve regurgitation, a small annulus, severe subvalvar or supravalvar pulmonary valve stenosis, or another cardiac lesion that requires operative intervention is present. It is not the preferred treatment for this patient who has appropriate valve morphology for balloon valvuloplasty.

**Bibliography**

Warnes CA, Williams RG, Bashore TM, Child JS, Connolly HM, Dearani JA, et al; American College of Cardiology. ACC/AHA 2008 guidelines for the management of adults with congenital heart disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines (Writing Committee to Develop Guidelines on the Management of Adults With Congenital Heart Disease). Developed in collaboration with the American Society of Echocardiography, Heart Rhythm Society, International Society for Adult Congenital Heart Disease, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2008;52:e143-263. PMID: 19038677 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2008.10.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.