
### Correct Answer: C) Coronary CT angiography 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate for coronary artery disease with coronary CT angiography in a patient with COPD.

#### **Key Point:** Baseline electrocardiogram (ECG) abnormalities that limit the ability to interpret exercise ECG findings are an indication for stress testing with adjunctive imaging or anatomic assessment of coronary arteries.

Coronary CT angiography (CTA) is the most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next. This patient with an intermediate pretest probability of coronary artery disease (CAD) has chest pain without evidence of acute coronary syndrome, and he should undergo risk stratification. Because his baseline electrocardiogram (ECG) has evidence of left ventricular hypertrophy with repolarization abnormalities, which limits the ability to interpret exercise ECG findings, stress testing with adjunctive imaging or anatomic assessment for CAD is indicated. Coronary CTA is a noninvasive anatomic imaging study to evaluate for obstructive CAD. In the PROMISE trial, which compared coronary CTA with functional stress testing among patients with an intermediate pretest probability for CAD, the 2-year composite outcome (death, myocardial infarction, hospitalization for unstable angina, or major procedural complication) was similarly low with both types of diagnostic testing.
Vasodilators, such as regadenoson or adenosine, produce hyperemia and a flow disparity between myocardium supplied by unobstructed vessels and myocardium supplied by the stenotic vessel (in which the distal vasculature is already maximally dilated). In addition to identifying the presence of disease, perfusion imaging can define the location and extent of reduced perfusion and provide additional prognostic information. Single-photon emission CT with the vasodilator adenosine can be performed in patients with underlying reactive airways disease but should be avoided in patients who are actively wheezing, such as this one. The newer selective adenosine A2A receptor agonists are associated with less bronchospasm; however, bronchospasm may still occur as a result of some activation of the A2B and A3 receptors.
Coronary angiography is an invasive test that carries significant risks. It should be considered in patients who have a high pretest probability for obstructive CAD, including symptomatic patients with abnormal findings on noninvasive testing for CAD or patients with an acute coronary syndrome.

**Bibliography**

Douglas PS, Hoffmann U, Patel MR, Mark DB, Al-Khalidi HR, Cavanaugh B, et al; PROMISE Investigators. Outcomes of anatomical versus functional testing for coronary artery disease. N Engl J Med. 2015 Apr 2;372(14):1291-300. PMID: 25773919

This content was last updated in August 2018.