
### Correct Answer: C) Exercise treadmill stress testing 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate sinus bradycardia.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with sinus bradycardia and equivocal symptoms, exercise stress testing may be used to assess for chronotropic incompetence and determine suitability for pacemaker placement.

Exercise treadmill stress testing is the most appropriate next step in management. Sinus bradycardia (sinus rhythm with a heart rate <60/min) may be appropriate in several situations, including in trained athletes or during sleep, when the heart rate may fall as low as 30/min. The most common intrinsic cause of inappropriate or pathologic sinus bradycardia (sinus node dysfunction) is age-related myocardial fibrosis in the vicinity of the sinus node. The most common extrinsic cause of sinus bradycardia is medication use. This young patient has asymptomatic bradycardia and chest pain atypical for cardiac ischemia. However, because of her history of occasional lightheadedness with exercise, this patient should undergo treadmill stress testing to evaluate her heart rate response to exercise (chronotropy) and further exclude symptomatic bradycardia.
Despite the pleuritic component to this patient's chest pain, she has no respiratory distress, has normal oxygen saturation, and can exercise without difficulty. Therefore, CT of the chest to exclude pulmonary embolism is not appropriate.
The utility of any diagnostic test should be interpreted in the context of the pretest likelihood of disease. Patients with a low probability of coronary artery disease, such as younger patients with atypical or nonanginal chest pain, have a higher incidence of false-positive test results and may undergo unnecessary testing without changing patient outcomes. Given this patient's extremely low pretest probability for coronary artery disease, coronary angiography is not indicated. Additionally, if this patient had an intermediate probability of coronary artery disease, noninvasive testing would be performed before angiography.
Pacemakers are indicated in patients with symptomatic bradycardia in the absence of a reversible cause. The decision to implant a pacemaker in this patient should be delayed until after the exercise stress test to ascertain whether she is truly asymptomatic.

**Bibliography**

Epstein AE, DiMarco JP, Ellenbogen KA, Estes NA 3rd, Freedman RA, Gettes LS, et al; American College of Cardiology Foundation. 2012 ACCF/AHA/HRS focused update incorporated into the ACCF/AHA/HRS 2008 guidelines for device-based therapy of cardiac rhythm abnormalities: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2013;61:e6-75. PMID: 23265327 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2012.11.007

This content was last updated in August 2018.