
### Correct Answer: B) Labetalol 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hypertension during pregnancy.

#### **Key Point:** Labetalol and methyldopa are the agents of choice in treating pregnant patients with hypertension.

In this pregnant patient, labetalol is the most appropriate treatment to achieve blood pressure control. Hypertension diagnosed before the 20th week of gestation is most consistent with a new diagnosis of chronic hypertension rather than preeclampsia. Pharmacologic treatment of chronic hypertension in pregnancy is recommended to achieve the goal of limiting maternal end-organ damage; there is no evidence that blood pressure control during pregnancy will prevent preeclampsia. The definitive threshold for treatment of chronic hypertension in pregnancy remains controversial. A 2013 guideline published by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists made a strong recommendation for initiation of pharmacologic therapy for pregnant women with persistent chronic hypertension at a systolic blood pressure of 160 mm Hg or higher or a diastolic blood pressure of 105 mm Hg or higher. However, other guidelines, including one from the European Society of Cardiology, continue to recommend initiation of pharmacologic therapy at a systolic blood pressure of 150 mm Hg or higher or a diastolic blood pressure of 95 mm Hg or higher in women without symptoms or evidence of end-organ damage due to hypertension. Although all antihypertensive agents cross the placenta, methyldopa and labetalol appear to be the safest antihypertensive agents in pregnant women.
Diet and weight loss should be used in conjunction with pharmacologic therapy in this patient; however, nonpharmacologic strategies alone are insufficient in a patient with hypertension of this magnitude. Foregoing pharmacologic treatment of chronic hypertension may result in maternal end-organ damage.
ACE inhibitors (such as lisinopril), angiotensin receptor blockers (such as losartan), spironolactone, and direct renin inhibitors (aliskiren) are teratogenic and are therefore contraindicated during pregnancy. During the first trimester, these agents can cause central nervous system and cardiovascular malformations in the fetus. Second-trimester exposure can cause developmental malformations of the kidneys and genitourinary system.

**Bibliography**

Regitz-Zagrosek V, Blomstrom Lundqvist C, Borghi C, Cifkova R, Ferreira R, Foidart JM, et al; European Society of Gynecology (ESG). ESC guidelines on the management of cardiovascular diseases during pregnancy: the Task Force on the Management of Cardiovascular Diseases during Pregnancy of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC). Eur Heart J. 2011;32:3147-97. PMID: 21873418 doi:10.1093/eurheartj/ehr218

This content was last updated in August 2018.