
### Correct Answer: B) 6 to 12 months 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient with severe mitral regurgitation with appropriate surveillance.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with asymptomatic severe mitral regurgitation with preserved left ventricular function who do not have an indication for surgery, clinical and echocardiographic surveillance every 6 to 12 months is recommended.

In the absence of symptoms, the most appropriate timing for this patient's next clinical evaluation is in 6 to 12 months. Abnormalities in any of the structures of the mitral valve apparatus, including anterior and posterior mitral leaflets, the annulus, the papillary muscles, and the chordae tendineae, can result in mitral regurgitation. Organic, or primary, mitral regurgitation refers to processes involving the leaflets, such as mitral valve prolapse, myxomatous degeneration (the abnormal accumulation of proteoglycans), collagen vascular disease, and infective endocarditis. Processes that affect the support structures, such as coronary artery disease and left ventricular remodeling in the setting of left ventricular dysfunction, result in functional, or secondary, mitral regurgitation. This patient has asymptomatic severe mitral regurgitation resulting from myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve with preserved left ventricular function. Surgical treatment with repair of the mitral valve is indicated for chronic severe primary mitral regurgitation in (1) symptomatic patients with left ventricular ejection fraction greater than 30%, (2) asymptomatic patients with left ventricular dysfunction (left ventricular ejection fraction of 30%-60% and/or left ventricular end-systolic diameter ≥40 mm), and (3) patients undergoing another cardiac surgical procedure. Mitral valve repair should also be considered in asymptomatic patients with chronic severe primary mitral regurgitation who have new-onset atrial fibrillation or pulmonary hypertension (pulmonary artery systolic pressure >50 mm Hg). Notably, recent studies have suggested a potential mortality benefit of early surgery for patients with asymptomatic severe mitral regurgitation with preserved left ventricular function when the operative risk is low. Therefore, consideration of early surgery, even in the absence of symptoms or an abnormal left ventricle, is appropriate in select candidates and should involve shared decision making with the patient. In this patient who has chosen to defer early surgery, clinical and echocardiographic surveillance is recommended, with follow-up every 6 to 12 months.

**Bibliography**

Nishimura RA, Otto CM, Bonow RO, Carabello BA, Erwin JP 3rd, Fleisher LA, et al. 2017 AHA/ACC focused update of the 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the management of patients with valvular heart disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2017;135:e1159-e1195. PMID: 28298458 doi:10.1161/CIR.0000000000000503

This content was last updated in August 2018.