
### Correct Answer: B) Cardiac rehabilitation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat asymptomatic lower extremity peripheral artery disease.

#### **Key Point:** Asymptomatic lower extremity peripheral artery disease is managed with aggressive risk factor modification; cilostazol and surgical intervention do not affect progression of disease or prevent acute limb ischemia.

In this patient with asymptomatic peripheral artery disease (PAD) and acute coronary syndrome treated with percutaneous coronary intervention, the most appropriate next step in management is cardiac rehabilitation. Cardiac rehabilitation is indicated in all patients after hospitalization for acute coronary syndrome and percutaneous coronary intervention. In some patients, exercise can provoke symptoms of intermittent claudication; however, the presence of PAD is not a contraindication to cardiac rehabilitation.
Cilostazol, a phosphodiesterase inhibitor with antiplatelet and vasodilatory properties, is not indicated in patients without claudication, such as this one. There is no evidence that cilostazol prevents progression of disease or improves outcomes in asymptomatic patients with PAD.
This patient's iliac artery stenosis could be treated safely and effectively with an endovascular approach; however, endovascular treatment of PAD is not recommended in asymptomatic patients. There is no empiric evidence that endovascular intervention prevents disease progression to intermittent claudication or critical limb ischemia.
Vorapaxar inhibits thrombin-induced and thrombin receptor agonist peptide–induced platelet aggregation. Vorapaxar reversibly inhibits protease-activated receptor-1, although its long half-life makes it effectively irreversible. It does not appear to affect coagulation parameters, nor does it inhibit platelet aggregation due to adenosine diphosphate, collagen, or thromboxane mimetic activities. Vorapaxar has been shown to reduce hospitalizations for acute limb ischemia in patients with symptomatic PAD, an effect that was mostly driven by patients who experienced lower extremity bypass graft thrombosis. When added to standard antiplatelet therapy, vorapaxar was also associated with a significant increase in major bleeding. In this patient with asymptomatic PAD, the benefits of adding vorapaxar to standard therapy are uncertain.

**Bibliography**

Foley TR, Waldo SW, Armstrong EJ. Medical therapy in peripheral artery disease and critical limb ischemia. Curr Treat Options Cardiovasc Med. 2016;18:42. PMID: 27181397 doi:10.1007/s11936-016-0464-8

This content was last updated in August 2018.