
### Correct Answer: A) Bevacizumab 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose hypertension related to bevacizumab therapy.

#### **Key Point:** The monoclonal antibody bevacizumab is associated with the development of significant but reversible hypertension.

Bevacizumab is the most likely cause of this patient's hypertension. Bevacizumab is a monoclonal antibody that blocks angiogenesis by inhibiting vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) A. It is effective in combination with standard chemotherapy for the treatment of metastatic colon and gynecologic cancers. Inhibition of VEGF appears to cause hypertension through several mechanisms, including altered nitric oxide production, increased endothelin-1 production, and alterations in the pressure-natriuresis relationship. As such, bevacizumab-related hypertension is a mechanism-dependent, on-target toxicity, which results directly from inhibition of the VEGF signaling pathway rather than as a nonspecific drug side effect. Bevacizumab-related hypertension affects a high proportion of treated patients, and incidence is dose dependent. Hypertension is most commonly detected at approximately 60 days after therapy initiation and is reversible upon discontinuation of the medication. Because large increases in both diastolic and systolic blood pressures can occur as early as the first week of therapy, all patients taking an angiogenesis inhibitor (such as bevacizumab) should have their blood pressure carefully monitored during therapy, particularly early on. There is no preferred antihypertensive agent for treatment. Interestingly, the development of hypertension may be a marker of a therapeutic response or improved cancer outcome for patients treated with this class of drugs.
Cisplatin has been associated with increased risk for venous thromboembolism, supraventricular tachycardia, myocardial ischemia, and cardiomyopathy. It may be associated with an increased risk for late development of hypertension in long-term cancer survivors; however, it has not been associated with acute onset of hypertension during treatment.
Glucocorticoids, such as dexamethasone, may contribute to hypertension through an unclear mechanism. However, the timing and degree of hypertension observed in this patient are typical of a bevacizumab-induced reaction.
The most common cardiotoxicities associated with paclitaxel are bradycardia and heart block. Most of these events are asymptomatic, and routine cardiac monitoring is not advocated. Paclitaxel can uncommonly cause hypertension (1% incidence) but is more likely to cause hypotension (up to 12% incidence). When used in combination with doxorubicin, paclitaxel is associated with cardiomyopathy, which occurs at a higher incidence than with doxorubicin alone.

**Bibliography**

Robinson ES, Khankin EV, Karumanchi SA, Humphreys BD. Hypertension induced by vascular endothelial growth factor signaling pathway inhibition: mechanisms and potential use as a biomarker. Semin Nephrol. 2010;30:591-601. PMID: 21146124 doi:10.1016/j.semnephrol.2010.09.007

This content was last updated in September 2019.