
### Correct Answer: A) Advise the patient that he should not play basketball 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate the eligibility of a patient with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy for participation in sports.

#### **Key Point:** Athletes with a probable or unequivocal diagnosis of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may participate in competitive sports that are considered static and low intensity.

The most appropriate management is to advise this patient not to play basketball. This asymptomatic patient has findings consistent with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). HCM is the single most common cause of sudden death in young athletes, presumably due to ventricular arrhythmia triggered by high-intensity physical activity. The risk for ventricular arrhythmias in competitive athletes with HCM exists in the absence of conventional risk factors for sudden cardiac death. Therefore, the degree and distribution of hypertrophy, the presence and magnitude of left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, and the presence or absence of obstructive symptoms should not influence recommendations regarding athletic participation in patients with phenotypic expression of HCM. According to current recommendations from the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association, athletes with a probable or unequivocal diagnosis of HCM may participate in competitive sports that are considered static and low intensity (categorized as class Ia sports). Examples of these sports include golf, curling, bowling, and cricket.
In patients with symptoms from HCM (such as dyspnea or syncope/near-syncope), medical therapy and lifestyle modification form the basis of therapy. Nonvasodilating β-blockers titrated to maximum tolerance are first-line treatment for symptomatic patients. However, β-blocker therapy should not be used for the sole purpose of allowing participation in athletics because the ability to effectively prevent sudden cardiac death with this strategy is unknown.
Catheter-based alcohol septal ablation or open surgical septal myectomy should be considered only in patients with HCM who have moderate to severe symptoms of obstruction despite maximal medical therapy or patients with recurrent syncope not related to arrhythmia. These invasive procedures should not be performed for the sole purpose of allowing participation in athletics.
Patients with HCM should be considered for implantable cardioverter-defibrillator therapy if they have any of the following risk factors for sudden cardiac death: (1) massive myocardial hypertrophy (wall thickness ≥30 mm), (2) previous cardiac arrest due to ventricular arrhythmia, (3) blunted blood pressure response or hypotension during exercise, (4) unexplained syncope, (5) nonsustained ventricular tachycardia on ambulatory electrocardiography, and (6) family history of sudden death due to HCM. An implantable cardioverter-defibrillator should not be placed solely for the purpose of allowing a patient to participate in high-intensity sports.

**Bibliography**

Maron BJ, Udelson JE, Bonow RO, Nishimura RA, Ackerman MJ, Estes NA 3rd, et al. Eligibility and disqualification recommendations for competitive athletes with cardiovascular abnormalities: Task Force 3: hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy and other cardiomyopathies, and myocarditis: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association and American College of Cardiology. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2015;66:2362-71. PMID: 26542657 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2015.09.035

This content was last updated in March 2021.