
### Correct Answer: C) Ventricular free wall rupture 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose ventricular free wall rupture as a complication of ST-elevation myocardial infarction.

#### **Key Point:** Ventricular free wall rupture is a rare complication of myocardial infarction that produces sudden-onset chest pain or syncope with rapid progression to pulseless electrical activity.

The most likely diagnosis in this patient with recent ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) is ventricular free wall rupture. Although the devastating mechanical complications of myocardial infarction have become increasingly rare with the use of reperfusion therapies, clinicians must be able to recognize these complications. The classic presentation of ventricular free wall rupture is sudden-onset chest pain or syncope with rapid progression to pulseless electrical activity, as seen in this patient. Unlike a ventricular septal defect, which results in intracardiac shunting of blood, free wall rupture causes rapid accumulation of blood within the pericardium and consequent tamponade. As a result, mortality rates are extremely high. Free wall rupture is more common in older adults, women, patients with anterior myocardial infarction, those receiving anti-inflammatory agents, and patients with a significant delay in receiving reperfusion therapy (>12 hours).
Although aortic dissection can manifest as sudden death as a result of rupture, aortic dissection is less likely than ventricular free wall rupture to cause pulseless electrical activity 3 days after an anterior myocardial infarction. In patients with a first myocardial infarction without heart failure, pulseless electrical activity is highly predictive of left ventricular free wall rupture.
Patients with in-stent restenosis will exhibit recurrent signs and symptoms of ischemia, including chest pain. Stent restenosis is unlikely in this patient with recent stent placement, as this process occurs over months to years. Additionally, stent restenosis does not present with pulseless electrical activity.
Acquired ventricular septal defect from septal wall rupture may complicate inferior or anterior STEMI. Patients typically present with sudden-onset right-sided heart failure, shock, and a new loud systolic murmur associated with a palpable thrill. The defect develops in the days following the infarction as myocardial necrosis develops, resulting in an often serpiginous defect connecting the left ventricle to the right ventricle. This patient's clinical presentation is inconsistent with postinfarction ventricular septal defect.

**Bibliography**

López-Sendón J, Gurfinkel EP, Lopez de Sa E, Agnelli G, Gore JM, Steg PG, et al; Global Registry of Acute Coronary Events (GRACE) Investigators. Factors related to heart rupture in acute coronary syndromes in the Global Registry of Acute Coronary Events. Eur Heart J. 2010;31:1449-56. PMID: 20231153 doi:10.1093/eurheartj/ehq061

This content was last updated in August 2018.