
### Correct Answer: D) Transient constrictive pericarditis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose transient constrictive pericarditis.

#### **Key Point:** Some patients with constrictive pericarditis can have reversible or transient pericardial inflammation that responds to anti-inflammatory agents; most cases are idiopathic, whereas others may be associated with recent cardiac surgery.

The most likely diagnosis is transient constrictive pericarditis. This patient has signs of right-sided heart failure accompanied by fever, leukocytosis, an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and a pericardial friction rub. The echocardiogram demonstrates enhanced ventricular interdependence and equalization of diastolic pressures in all heart chambers. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging demonstrates pericardial thickening with evidence of active inflammation. These features are consistent with the diagnosis of transient constrictive pericarditis. Transient constrictive pericarditis most often is idiopathic but may follow cardiac surgery. Initial therapy consists of an NSAID plus colchicine.
Patients with chronic constrictive pericarditis are sometimes misdiagnosed as having heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. Although this patient has evidence of right-sided heart failure and has a preserved ejection fraction, Doppler echocardiographic findings of ventricular interdependence and the relative low B-type natriuretic peptide level argue against heart failure with preserved ejection fraction.
Patients with perioperative graft failure with infarction would be more likely to demonstrate pathologic findings of infarction on electrocardiogram, and serum troponin levels may remain elevated.
Although it may be challenging to differentiate restrictive cardiomyopathy from pericardial constriction, the lack of features of heart failure until after coronary artery bypass graft surgery makes the diagnosis of restrictive cardiomyopathy unlikely. Additionally, patients with restrictive cardiomyopathy would not demonstrate evidence of enhanced ventricular interdependence, and the B-type natriuretic peptide level is typically greater than 400 pg/mL (400 ng/L).

**Bibliography**

Gentry J, Klein AL, Jellis CL. Transient constrictive pericarditis: current diagnostic and therapeutic strategies. Curr Cardiol Rep. 2016;18:41. PMID: 26995404 doi:10.1007/s11886-016-0720-2

This content was last updated in August 2018.