
### Correct Answer: C) Discontinue hydrochlorothiazide and diltiazem and start furosemide 

**Educational Objective:** Treat heart failure with preserved ejection fraction.

#### **Key Point:** The cornerstone of treatment for patients with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction is diuretic therapy to maintain euvolemia.

The most appropriate management is to discontinue hydrochlorothiazide and diltiazem and start furosemide. This elderly woman with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) has signs and symptoms of volume overload in the setting of bradycardia. The cornerstone of treatment for patients with HFpEF is diuretic therapy to maintain euvolemia. Antihypertensive agents should also be used to maintain normal blood pressure in the setting of hypertension. Despite treatment with hydrochlorothiazide, this patient has evidence of volume overload, and she should be switched to furosemide for more efficacious diuresis. This patient is also taking diltiazem, which may be causing her bradycardia, and this agent should be discontinued. If the patient's heart rate fails to improve, she should be referred for pacemaker placement.
Ivabradine is a sinus node modulator that reduces heart failure–associated hospitalizations in select heart failure patients; however, it is indicated as therapy only in patients with a reduced left ventricular ejection fraction and heart rate higher than 70/min while receiving β-blocker therapy.
Although ACE inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (such as valsartan), β-blockers, and aldosterone antagonists have been studied for the treatment of HFpEF, no drugs have been shown to reduce morbidity or mortality in these patients. Most recently, in the TOPCAT trial, there was no difference in the primary combined endpoint of death, aborted cardiac arrest, or heart failure hospitalization with spironolactone compared with placebo; however, spironolactone was associated with a reduction in heart failure hospitalizations. Notably, a retrospective analysis showed that spironolactone reduced the incidence of cardiovascular death and heart failure hospitalization in patients in the Americas compared with those in Eastern Europe, likely because of different patient demographic characteristics across regions.
Pacemaker placement would be indicated only for symptomatic bradycardia in the absence of a reversible cause; the response to diltiazem discontinuation should be assessed before pacemaker placement is considered in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Redfield MM. Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. N Engl J Med. 2016;375:1868-1877. PMID: 27959663

This content was last updated in August 2018.