
### Correct Answer: B) Ostium primum ASD 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose ostium primum atrial septal defect.

#### **Key Point:** Fixed splitting of the S2, a mitral regurgitation murmur, and left-axis deviation on electrocardiogram are consistent with an ostium primum atrial septal defect.

This patient's examination findings and electrocardiogram (ECG) are consistent with a diagnosis of ostium primum atrial septal defect (ASD). The patient has clinical features of ASD, presenting with dyspnea, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, and features of right heart volume overload with elevation of the central venous pressure and a right ventricular lift. A pulmonary midsystolic flow murmur is caused by increased flow from a large left-to-right shunt. Fixed splitting of the S2 throughout the cardiac cycle is a characteristic clinical feature of ASD. The apical systolic murmur of mitral regurgitation is related to the mitral valve cleft. This combination of fixed splitting of the S2, mitral regurgitation murmur, and left-axis deviation on ECG are most consistent with an ostium primum ASD.
Patients with a coronary sinus ASD have features of right heart volume overload but do not have a mitral regurgitation murmur because no mitral valve disease is present. The ECG may be normal or demonstrate first-degree atrioventricular block and incomplete right bundle branch block.
Patients with ostium secundum ASD have right heart volume overload but do not generally have mitral regurgitation. The ECG may demonstrate first-degree atrioventricular block and incomplete right bundle branch block, or it may be normal. This patient's ECG finding of left axis deviation is not seen in patients with ostium secundum ASD.
Patients with sinus venosus ASD have features of right heart volume overload but do not have a mitral regurgitation murmur because no mitral valve disease is present. The ECG may be normal or demonstrate first-degree atrioventricular block, left P-wave axis or abnormal P-wave axis, and incomplete right bundle branch block, but left-axis deviation is not expected.

**Bibliography**

Warnes CA, Williams RG, Bashore TM, Child JS, Connolly HM, Dearani JA, et al; American College of Cardiology. ACC/AHA 2008 guidelines for the management of adults with congenital heart disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines (Writing Committee to Develop Guidelines on the Management of Adults With Congenital Heart Disease). Developed in collaboration with the American Society of Echocardiography, Heart Rhythm Society, International Society for Adult Congenital Heart Disease, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2008;52:e143-263. PMID: 19038677 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2008.10.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.