
### Correct Answer: D) Calculate the 10-year atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk 

**Educational Objective:** Assess the 10-year risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease with the Pooled Cohort Equations.

#### **Key Point:** Routine screening for lipid disorders and calculation of 10-year atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk by using the Pooled Cohort Equations should be performed in adults aged 40 to 75 years.

The most appropriate next management step is to calculate this patient's 10-year atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk. Results of lipid measurements and patient-specific data (age, race, blood pressure, hypertension treatment, diabetes mellitus, and smoking) allow for the calculation of 10-year ASCVD risk using the Pooled Cohort Equations. In adults aged 40 to 75 years who have at least one ASCVD risk factor (dyslipidemia, diabetes, hypertension, or smoking) and a calculated 10-year ASCVD risk of 10% or greater, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends statin therapy for the primary prevention of ASCVD. The USPSTF also recommends that clinicians selectively prescribe statins to adults aged 40 to 75 years without a history of ASCVD who have one or more ASCVD risk factors and a calculated 10-year ASCVD event risk of 7.5% to 10% (grade C recommendation). Because this patient has one ASCVD risk factor (hypertension), it is appropriate that his risk be assessed, and through use of the Pooled Cohort Equations, his 10-year risk for ASCVD is 9.3%. According to the USPSTF recommendation, he should be considered as a potential candidate for statin therapy. The 2018 American Heart Association/American College of Cardiology Guideline on the Management of Blood Cholesterol recommends that patients without ASCVD or diabetes who have a 10-year ASCVD risk of 7.5% to less than 20% should be engaged in a discussion regarding cardiovascular risk reduction and offered moderate-intensity statin therapy if risk-enhancing factors are also present. The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and U.S. Department of Defense, in their 2020 joint clinical practice guideline on managing dyslipidemia to reduce cardiovascular disease risk, recommend moderate-intensity statin therapy for primary prevention in patients with a 10-year cardiovascular risk of 12% or higher, an LDL cholesterol level of 190 mg/dL or higher (≥4.92 mmol/L), or diabetes.
The initiation of statin therapy might be reasonable for this patient but not until his 10-year ASCVD risk is calculated. Such information can be used to determine the need for and intensity of stain therapy.
The optimal interval for assessment of ASCVD risk is undetermined; however, it is reasonable to measure lipid levels every 5 years in adults aged 40 to 75 years. This patient should not wait 5 years to have his ASCVD risk assessed and delay potentially beneficial therapy.

**Bibliography**

Bibbins-Domingo K, Grossman DC, Curry SJ, Davidson KW, Epling JW Jr, García FA, et al; US Preventive Services Task Force. Statin use for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in adults: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. JAMA. 2016;316:1997-2007. PMID: 27838723 doi:10.1001/jama.2016.15450

This content was last updated in March 2021.