
### Correct Answer: D) Warfarin and aspirin 

**Educational Objective:** Manage antithrombotic therapy in a patient with a prosthetic heart valve.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with a mechanical prosthetic valve, low-dose aspirin is recommended in addition to warfarin therapy to reduce the risk for ischemic events.

The most appropriate antithrombotic therapy is the combination of warfarin and aspirin. Lifelong oral anticoagulation with warfarin is recommended for all patients with a mechanical prosthesis and those with bioprostheses with other indications for anticoagulation. The target INR is based on prosthesis location, with a target of 2.5 for patients with a mechanical aortic prosthetic valve and 3.0 for patients with a mechanical mitral prosthetic valve and those with a mechanical aortic prosthetic valve and additional risk factors for thromboembolism (atrial fibrillation, left ventricular dysfunction, previous thromboembolism, hypercoagulable condition, or older-generation mechanical aortic valve replacement). The addition of aspirin (75-100 mg/d) is also recommended to reduce the risk for ischemic events. Adding aspirin to warfarin therapy reduces mortality, particularly mortality from vascular causes, and major systemic embolism (1.9% per year versus 8.5% per year). Although there is some increase in bleeding, the risk of the combined treatment was more than offset by the considerable benefit. The need for anticoagulation among patients with bioprosthetic valves is less clear. Oral anticoagulation with warfarin should be considered for at least 3 months and as long as 6 months after implantation of a mitral or aortic bioprosthesis. An INR of 2.5 should be targeted in these patients. Long-term aspirin use is reasonable for all patients with bioprosthetic valves.
Apixaban, a direct factor Xa inhibitor, has not been studied for the prevention of valve thrombosis and thromboembolic events in patients with a mechanical valve prosthesis; therefore, it would be inappropriate to initiate apixaban in this patient.
Direct thrombin inhibitors, such as dabigatran, are contraindicated in patients with mechanical valves, owing to the excessive thrombotic complications observed in clinical trials with these agents.
Foregoing anticoagulation would be inappropriate for this patient because lifelong warfarin is indicated in all patients with a mechanical valve prosthesis to decrease the incidence of thromboembolism and the associated morbidity, such as ischemic stroke, cerebrovascular accident, and peripheral systemic embolism.

**Bibliography**

Turpie AG, Gent M, Laupacis A, Latour Y, Gunstensen J, Basile F, et al. A comparison of aspirin with placebo in patients treated with warfarin after heart-valve replacement. N Engl J Med. 1993;329:524-9. PMID: 8336751

This content was last updated in August 2018.