
### Correct Answer: A) β-Blocker therapy and anticoagulation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat wide-complex tachycardia due to atrial fibrillation with aberrant conduction.

#### **Key Point:** Atrial fibrillation with aberrant conduction results in an irregularly irregular rhythm and a wide-complex tachycardia with a QRS morphology (rSR pattern in lead V1, deep terminal S waves in leads I and V6) on electrocardiogram typical of right bundle branch block.

The most appropriate next step in management is initiation of β-blocker therapy and anticoagulation. This older patient has paroxysmal atrial fibrillation with aberrant conduction, resulting in wide-complex tachycardia. The electrocardiogram (ECG) demonstrates a normal sinus beat followed by an irregularly irregular rhythm, and the QRS morphology (RsR′ pattern in lead V1, RSR′ pattern in leads V2 and V3, and deep terminal S waves in leads I and V6) on ECG is consistent with right bundle branch block. The physical examination is also notable for a widely split S2, which is typically heard during right bundle branch block. Atrioventricular nodal blocking agents, such as β-blockers, should be used to control this patient's heart rate and improve her symptoms. This patient is also at moderate to high risk for stroke given her CHA2DS2-VASc score of 4 (1 point each for hypertension and female sex; 2 points for age >75 years). Therefore, initiation of oral anticoagulation is also appropriate.
Adenosine is used in the acute treatment of arrhythmias to interrupt atrioventricular conduction and terminate supraventricular tachycardia; however, this patient's arrhythmia is not dependent on the atrioventricular node. Therefore, adenosine would not be of benefit.
Intravenous procainamide would be an appropriate option if the patient had preexcited atrial fibrillation due to an accessory pathway. The presence of an accessory pathway may be indicated on a resting ECG by the presence of two characteristics: a short PR interval when in sinus rhythm (see first beat on the ECG) and a delta wave (a sloping upstroke initiating the QRS complex, which may be wide due to sequential rather than parallel depolarization of the ventricles). This pattern on ECG is referred to as preexcitation, and when present with symptomatic tachycardia, it is called the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. This patient's ECG is most consistent with aberrant conduction in the setting of atrial fibrillation, not preexcited atrial fibrillation.
Urgent cardioversion is unnecessary because the patient is hemodynamically stable and appears to have nonsustained atrial fibrillation on the basis of the intermittent nature of her symptoms. If the patient had a sustained arrhythmia accompanied by hemodynamic instability, emergent cardioversion would be indicated, regardless of the specific cause of the arrhythmia (that is, supraventricular versus ventricular).

**Bibliography**

Link MS. Clinical practice. Evaluation and initial treatment of supraventricular tachycardia. N Engl J Med. 2012;367:1438-48. PMID: 23050527 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp1111259

This content was last updated in September 2019.