
### Correct Answer: D) Simultaneous coronary artery bypass graft surgery and aortic repair 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient with a thoracic aortic aneurysm and concomitant coronary artery disease.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with a thoracic aortic aneurysm greater than 4.5 cm in diameter who require coronary artery bypass graft surgery or surgery to repair valve pathology, aortic repair should be performed at the time of cardiac surgery.

The most appropriate management of this patient is simultaneous coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery and aortic repair. On the basis of his angiographic findings (80% stenosis of the left main coronary artery bifurcation), he should undergo revascularization with CABG surgery. In patients with an ascending aorta or aortic root greater than 4.5 cm in diameter who require CABG surgery or surgery to repair valve pathology, aortic repair should be performed at the time of cardiac surgery. Anatomic imaging, such as CT angiography or magnetic resonance angiography, is recommended to plan for open aortic repair before the surgical procedure.
Patients with left main coronary artery disease have traditionally been treated with CABG surgery; however, because this patient has concomitant thoracic aortic aneurysmal disease, CABG surgery without aortic repair is not the best management option.
Patients with established coronary artery disease benefit from optimal medical therapy, including β-blockers and long-acting nitrates. However, given this patient's thoracic aortic aneurysm and severe coronary artery disease, optimal medical therapy in the absence of revascularization and aortic repair is inappropriate.
Percutaneous coronary intervention is not encouraged for patients with complex disease of the left main coronary artery, especially in the presence of a thoracic aortic aneurysm.

**Bibliography**

Hiratzka LF, Bakris GL, Beckman JA, Bersin RM, Carr VF, Casey DE Jr, et al; American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2010 ACCF/AHA/AATS/ACR/ASA/SCA/SCAI/SIR/STS/SVM guidelines for the diagnosis and management of patients with thoracic aortic disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, American Association for Thoracic Surgery, American College of Radiology, American Stroke Association, Society of Cardiovascular Anesthesiologists, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, Society of Interventional Radiology, Society of Thoracic Surgeons, and Society for Vascular Medicine. Circulation. 2010;121:e266-369. PMID: 20233780 doi:10.1161/CIR.0b013e3181d4739e

This content was last updated in August 2018.