
### Correct Answer: D) Left ventricular assist device–related thrombosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose left ventricular assist device–related thrombosis as the cause of stroke.

#### **Key Point:** The incidence of hemorrhagic and embolic strokes approaches 20% at 1 year after insertion of a left ventricular assist device.

The most likely cause of stroke in this patient with a left ventricular assist device (LVAD) is LVAD-related thrombosis. Stroke is one of the most common complications after placement of an LVAD. Studies have shown that the incidence of hemorrhagic and embolic strokes approaches 20% at 1 year after LVAD insertion. Other complications of LVAD placement include gastrointestinal bleeding, usually secondary to arteriovenous malformations; pump malfunction; and thrombus formation in the pump that can lead to emboli, hemolysis, or pump stoppage.
Stroke due to large artery atherosclerosis, such as carotid artery stenosis, commonly occurs after local thrombus formation in the area of plaque rupture with subsequent distal embolization. Of the common causes of stroke, extracranial internal carotid artery atherosclerosis has the highest risk for recurrent stroke in the first 2 weeks. Advanced atherosclerotic disease is a much less likely cause of stroke in this 37-year-old man with cardiomyopathy than is thromboembolism related to LVAD placement.
A sizeable proportion of patients will have a cerebral infarction with no definitive cause identified on cardiac or vascular diagnostic testing, termed cryptogenic stroke. However, this diagnosis is not appropriate until a complete evaluation reveals no cause of the stroke, which is not the case for this patient.
Small subcortical infarcts (lacunes) commonly have a diameter of less than 1.5 cm and arise from occlusion of small perforating arteries emanating from the large intracranial vessels. This stroke subtype typically presents with only motor or sensory findings on examination; cortical hemispheric symptoms, such as visual field cuts, aphasia, or hemispatial neglect, are lacking. Lacunar infarction is not compatible with the patient's clinical presentation.

**Bibliography**

Robertson J, Long B, Koyfman A. The emergency management of ventricular assist devices. Am J Emerg Med. 2016;34:1294-301. PMID: 27162114 doi:10.1016/j.ajem.2016.04.033

This content was last updated in August 2018.