
### Correct Answer: B) Coarctation of the aorta 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose aortic coarctation.

#### **Key Point:** Aortic coarctation is characterized by clinical features of upper extremity hypertension and a radial artery–to–femoral artery pulse delay as well as radiographic findings of “figure 3 sign” and rib notching.

The most likely diagnosis is aortic coarctation. This patient has dyspnea in the setting of aortic stenosis and hypertension, and she has clinical features of upper extremity hypertension and a radial artery–to–femoral artery pulse delay that suggest a mechanical obstruction between the radial and femoral arteries. A systolic murmur heard over the left chest is common in patients with severe aortic coarctation; these murmurs can arise from the obstruction or the collateral blood flow. The patient's chest radiograph demonstrates rib notching (arrows) affecting several of the posterior ribs; rib notching results from exaggerated collateral blood flow diverting blood around the area of obstruction. The patient additionally has aortic stenosis associated with a bicuspid aortic valve, which is present in more than 50% of patients with aortic coarctation. Cerebral artery aneurysm also occurs with increased frequency in patients with aortic coarctation.
The syndrome of aortic dissection usually presents with sharp or tearing chest and/or back pain. It may be accompanied by syncope, heart failure, or stroke and is rarely asymptomatic. Chest pain with concomitant acute ischemia in a distant arterial bed (stroke, limb ischemia) should prompt consideration of dissection. The chest radiograph does not demonstrate features of aortic dilatation or mediastinal widening characteristic of dissection.
Although the physical examination findings in a patient with severe essential hypertension often include an S4, blood pressure and pulse differentials between the upper and lower extremities are not expected.
Renovascular hypertension is a common cause of hypertension, occurring primarily in patients with diffuse atherosclerosis. The physical examination in a patient with renovascular hypertension is usually normal, with the exception of hypertension and possible epigastric bruit; blood pressure and pulse differentials between upper and lower extremities are not expected.

**Bibliography**

Tanous D, Benson LN, Horlick EM. Coarctation of the aorta: evaluation and management. Curr Opin Cardiol. 2009;24:509-15. PMID: 19667980 doi:10.1097/HCO.0b013e328330cc22

This content was last updated in August 2018.