
### Correct Answer: D) Routine clinical follow-up without imaging 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose a benign heart murmur.

#### **Key Point:** Short, soft systolic murmurs (grade &lt;3) that are well localized to the left sternal border and are not associated with symptoms often do not require further investigation.

The most appropriate management is routine clinical follow-up without imaging. Cardiac murmurs result from increased blood flow across a normal orifice (such as with anemia, thyrotoxicosis, pregnancy, or atrial septal defect), turbulent flow through a narrowed orifice (such as with aortic stenosis or mitral stenosis), or regurgitant flow through an incompetent valve (such as with aortic regurgitation or mitral regurgitation). Timing in the cardiac cycle, chest wall location, radiation, intensity, configuration, duration, and pitch all assist in the differential diagnosis.
Not all systolic murmurs are pathologic. Asymptomatic patients with short, soft systolic murmurs (grade <3) well localized to the left sternal border and associated with normal heart sounds do not usually require further investigation. Benign murmurs typically decrease in intensity with standing. The presence of any diastolic or continuous murmur, cardiac symptoms (chest pain, dyspnea, syncope), or abnormalities on examination (clicks, abnormal S2, abnormal pulses) requires evaluation by echocardiography.
Various interventions may alter the intensity of murmurs. The murmur of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may increase with standing or Valsalva maneuver; both maneuvers decrease venous return, which decreases left ventricular chamber size and increases the degree of obstruction. The click and murmur of mitral valve prolapse may move earlier in systole and increase in intensity as left ventricular volume decreases (standing or Valsalva maneuver). Aortic outflow murmurs increase in intensity in the beat following a premature ventricular contraction due to increased left ventricular volume. Murmurs of mitral regurgitation, ventricular septal defect, and aortic regurgitation increase with handgrip because of increased cardiac output and peripheral resistance. Right-sided heart murmurs may increase during inspiration due to increased venous return.
Characteristics of the S2 may assist in determining the diagnosis or the severity of a valvular lesion. A fixed split of S2 (present during inspiration and expiration instead of only inspiration) results from a delay in right ventricular emptying and is strongly associated with atrial septal defect. A paradoxical split of S2 (present during expiration) indicates a delay in left ventricular emptying, such as with severe aortic stenosis. Presence of a physiologic split (present during inspiration) is helpful for excluding severe aortic stenosis.
Because this patient likely has a benign systolic heart murmur and is asymptomatic, imaging with echocardiography or cardiac magnetic resonance imaging is not necessary.

**Bibliography**

Etchells E, Bell C, Robb K. Does this patient have an abnormal systolic murmur? JAMA. 1997;277:564-71. PMID: 9032164

This content was last updated in August 2018.