
### Correct Answer: B) Discontinue clopidogrel in 5 months 

**Educational Objective:** Manage dual antiplatelet therapy in a patient with stable angina treated with drug-eluting stent placement.

#### **Key Point:** Dual antiplatelet therapy is recommended for at least 6 months after drug-eluting stent placement for treatment of stable angina.

This patient should receive dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) for 5 additional months, after which clopidogrel can be discontinued. In patients who undergo percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), DAPT with aspirin plus a P2Y12 inhibitor is indicated to prevent stent thrombosis and future cardiovascular events. However, recently, there has been considerable movement regarding the optimal duration of DAPT following drug-eluting stent placement. It is important to find the correct balance between blocking platelet activity during the process of reendothelialization of the stent and exposure to the attendant bleeding risk. Current guidelines suggest that the minimum duration for DAPT following drug-eluting stent placement for patients without an acute coronary syndrome is at least 6 months, with the option to continue therapy for a longer duration in those with a high risk for thrombosis-related complications and a favorable bleeding profile. Ultimately, the decision may be individualized at the patient level, such as with this patient, who is at relatively high bleeding risk given her age and comorbid conditions.
In patients who undergo PCI with bare metal stent placement, DAPT may be discontinued after 1 month; however, this patient with a drug-eluting stent requires longer therapy.
Patients with acute coronary syndrome treated with PCI (bare metal or drug-eluting stent placement) should be optimally treated with DAPT for at least 12 months.
Aspirin should be continued indefinitely in patients with coronary artery disease, unless contraindicated. No data support discontinuing both antiplatelet agents following PCI.
A study of DAPT comparing 12 months of therapy with 30 months of therapy suggested a benefit to the longer duration in some patients. Extending DAPT for a longer duration should be individualized on the basis of predicted risk for additional cardiovascular events and risk for bleeding.

**Bibliography**

Levine GN, Bates ER, Bittl JA, Brindis RG, Fihn SD, Fleisher LA, et al. 2016 ACC/AHA guideline focused update on duration of dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with coronary artery disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2016;152:1243-1275. PMID: 27751237 doi:10.1016/j.jtcvs.2016.07.044

This content was last updated in August 2018.