
### Correct Answer: E) Surgical excision 

**Educational Objective:** Treat an atrial myxoma.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with an atrial myxoma may present with constitutional symptoms, embolic phenomena from tumor fragmentation, or symptoms referable to intracardiac obstruction (dyspnea, syncope); treatment is surgical excision.

The most appropriate treatment is surgical excision. This patient's history, physical examination findings, and echocardiographic features are all most consistent with a left atrial myxoma. The parasternal long-axis echocardiographic view (shown) demonstrates a large atrial myxoma (AM) prolapsing across the mitral valve from the left atrium (LA) to the left ventricle (LV) during diastole. Myxomas are connective tissue tumors with cells encompassed within mucopolysaccharide stroma. Most are attached to the left atrial wall in proximity to the fossa ovalis. Patients with an atrial myxoma most often present with symptoms related to obstruction or embolization, or constitutional symptoms related to production of tumor-based interleukin 6, such as fatigue, low-grade fever, and arthralgia. Dyspnea may be related to mitral valvular obstruction, which causes a diastolic rumble resembling mitral stenosis and an early diastolic sound (“tumor plop”) heard in 10% to 15% of patients. Treatment for an atrial myxoma is urgent surgical excision.
Systemic anticoagulation would be appropriate in patients with a thrombus. Right atrial masses in patients with indwelling cardiac catheters are more likely to represent thrombus. PET and contrast-enhanced MRI/CT may be useful in evaluating metabolic activity and vascularity to differentiate a tumor from a thrombus. This patient has no risk factors for intracardiac thrombus, such as cardiac catheter, atrial fibrillation, or poor left ventricular function, making it an unlikely diagnosis.
Chemotherapy and radiotherapy are used to treat primary cardiac lymphoma. Suspicion for cardiac lymphoma would be higher if this patient were immunocompromised and had presented with a right atrial mass rather than an intra-atrial mass.
Empiric antibiotic therapy would be appropriate for suspected infective endocarditis. Although this patient has a low-grade fever, embolic phenomena, and constitutional symptoms, she has no risk factors for infective endocarditis and no leukocytosis. Additionally, attachment of the tumor to the fossa ovalis, not a valvular surface, makes infective endocarditis unlikely.
Percutaneous biopsy with echocardiographic guidance is sometimes useful in establishing the diagnosis of right-sided masses. However, percutaneous biopsy would not eliminate the need for surgical excision in this patient with embolic events.

**Bibliography**

Basso C, Rizzo S, Valente M, Thiene G. Cardiac masses and tumours. Heart. 2016 Aug 1;102(15):1230-45. PMID: 27277840

This content was last updated in August 2018.