
### Correct Answer: C) Noonan syndrome 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Noonan syndrome associated with cardiovascular disease.

#### **Key Point:** Noonan syndrome is commonly associated with congenital cardiac lesions, including pulmonary stenosis.

This patient has features of Noonan syndrome, which is an autosomal dominant disorder commonly associated with congenital cardiac lesions, including pulmonary stenosis; the valve is usually dysplastic. Noonan syndrome should be considered in all patients with pulmonary stenosis, particularly those with short stature, variable intellectual impairment, unique facial features, neck webbing, hypertelorism, and other cardiac abnormalities, including hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, atrial septal defect, and ventricular septal defect. This patient has severe pulmonary stenosis demonstrated by the physical examination findings of a palpable, late-peaking systolic murmur located at the second left intercostal space; absence of an ejection click; and features of right ventricular pressure overload. An ejection click may be audible in patients with pulmonary stenosis, but as severity progresses, the click disappears owing to loss of valve pliability. The echocardiogram in this patient confirms severe pulmonary stenosis with a peak systolic gradient of 65 mm Hg.
Down syndrome is a genetic disorder caused by the presence of a full or partial extra copy of chromosome 21. Characteristic features include small stature, unique facial features, and intellectual delays. Congenital cardiovascular disease occurs in more than 40% of affected persons, most commonly as a form of atrioventricular septal defect, including ostium primum atrial septal defect, inlet ventricular septal defect, or complete atrioventricular septal defect. Pulmonary stenosis is not typically seen unless associated with tetralogy of Fallot, which is also common in persons with Down syndrome.
Marfan syndrome is a genetic disorder caused by a mutation on chromosome 15. Findings typically include ocular, cardiovascular, skeletal, and systemic features that include tall stature with overgrowth of the long bones. The most common cardiovascular feature is aortic sinus dilatation with a propensity to dissection.
Turner syndrome is a genetic disorder that affects girls and women and is characterized by complete or partial absence of one of the X chromosomes. Affected persons often demonstrate short stature, webbed neck, low-set ears, low hairline, and primary infertility. Cardiac defects occur in about 45% of affected patients; the most common lesions include bicuspid aortic valve, aortic coarctation, and aortic aneurysm. Although pulmonary stenosis can occur in Turner syndrome, this man could not have Turner syndrome.

**Bibliography**

Bhambhani V, Muenke M. Noonan syndrome. Am Fam Physician. 2014;89:37-43. PMID: 24444506

This content was last updated in August 2018.