
### Correct Answer: C) Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator placement 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent sudden cardiac death in a patient with nonischemic cardiomyopathy.

#### **Key Point:** Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) therapy is indicated in patients with nonischemic cardiomyopathy who have a left ventricular ejection fraction less than or equal to 35% and who have New York Heart Association functional class II or III symptoms; ICD implantation is also reasonable for patients with nonischemic cardiomyopathy and unexplained syncope and significant left ventricular dysfunction.

Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) placement is the most appropriate management of this patient with nonischemic cardiomyopathy and syncope that is concerning for an arrhythmic cause. He has several high-risk features for ventricular arrhythmia (New York Heart Association functional class II symptoms, ventricular ectopy, and syncope). ICD therapy is indicated to prevent sudden cardiac death.
Electroencephalography is indicated if seizure is suspected as the cause of syncope. However, this patient's presentation was not consistent with a diagnosis of seizure.
Exercise treadmill stress testing is a valuable test when exercise-induced arrhythmias are suspected. This patient's symptoms are not associated with exertion; therefore, exercise treadmill stress testing is unnecessary.
PET can be useful in the evaluation of nonischemic cardiomyopathy when cardiac sarcoidosis is suspected. However, this information would not be helpful in guiding the decision to insert an ICD in this patient at high risk for sudden cardiac death.
Tilt-table testing should be reserved for patients with recurrent syncope without known heart disease or those with heart disease in whom a cardiac cause of the syncope has been excluded. Because cardiac arrhythmias are the most likely cause of this patient's syncope, tilt-table testing is not appropriate.

**Bibliography**

Epstein AE, DiMarco JP, Ellenbogen KA, Estes NA 3rd, Freedman RA, Gettes LS, et al; American College of Cardiology Foundation; American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines; Heart Rhythm Society. 2012 ACCF/AHA/HRS focused update incorporated into the ACCF/AHA/HRS 2008 guidelines for device-based therapy of cardiac rhythm abnormalities: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. Circulation. 2013 Jan 22;127(3):e283-352. PMID: 23255456

This content was last updated in August 2018.