
### Correct Answer: A) Exercise echocardiography 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate symptomatic mitral stenosis with exercise echocardiography.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with mitral stenosis who have a discrepancy between the clinical findings and the echocardiographic findings, exercise echocardiography should be pursued to assess the response of the mitral gradient and pulmonary pressures.

The most appropriate next step in management is exercise echocardiography. This patient has symptoms typical of severe mitral stenosis (progressive exertional dyspnea) but echocardiographic findings consistent with only moderate mitral stenosis. Symptoms of mitral stenosis can be indolent, with patients remaining asymptomatic for years and then presenting with a gradual decrease in activity. Other symptoms include dyspnea, orthopnea, fatigue, and, less commonly, hemoptysis or systemic embolization. Symptoms typically are not present until the mitral valve area is less than 1.5 cm2, although tachycardia may precipitate symptoms at larger valve areas. In patients with a discrepancy between the clinical findings (debilitating symptoms) and the echocardiographic findings (moderate stenosis), additional testing is necessary to ensure that the patient's symptoms can be attributed to mitral stenosis. In this case, stress echocardiography should be pursued to assess the response of the mitral gradient and pulmonary pressures. Both exercise and dobutamine echocardiography are viable options, but exercise is generally preferred as the more physiologic test. For patients with mitral stenosis, the valve gradient is heavily flow dependent and may become severely elevated only with exercise. Exercise and the accompanying increases in heart rate augment cardiac output and transvalvular flow and shorten the diastolic filling time in the left ventricle. These conditions can unmask mitral stenosis that does not appear to be functionally severe at rest. With an increase in left atrial pressures during exercise, significant pulmonary hypertension also may become evident.
Medical therapy for mitral stenosis consists of diuretics or long-acting nitrates, which may help alleviate symptoms such as dyspnea. In addition, β-blockers or nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers can lower heart rate and improve left ventricular diastolic filling time. Medical therapy would be appropriate if the mitral stenosis were not hemodynamically significant or if she were not a surgical candidate.
After hemodynamically significant mitral stenosis is confirmed, percutaneous or surgical therapy can be considered. However, these interventions are not appropriate before confirmation with exercise echocardiography.

**Bibliography**

Aviles RJ, Nishimura RA, Pellikka PA, Andreen KM, Holmes DR Jr. Utility of stress Doppler echocardiography in patients undergoing percutaneous mitral balloon valvotomy. J Am Soc Echocardiogr. 2001;14:676-81. PMID: 11447412

This content was last updated in March 2021.