
### Correct Answer: C) Percutaneous coronary intervention 

**Educational Objective:** Treat ST-elevation myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock should undergo emergent revascularization with primary percutaneous coronary intervention.

Immediate percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is indicated in this patient with ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) complicated by cardiogenic shock. Cardiogenic shock is defined by persistent symptomatic hypotension and end-organ dysfunction. Patients have acute kidney failure, evidence of liver dysfunction with elevated aminotransferase levels, poor peripheral perfusion with cool extremities, and decreased mental status. Cardiogenic shock typically occurs as a consequence of a large anterior myocardial infarction, resulting in severely reduced left ventricular systolic function; it carries a mortality rate between 50% and 80%. Despite their instability, patients with cardiogenic shock (particularly those younger than 75 years of age) have a higher rate of survival if they undergo emergent revascularization with primary PCI in the catheterization laboratory.
Medical stabilization with intravenous vasoactive medications and, in severe cases, device-based hemodynamic support without prompt revascularization has been shown to be inferior to revascularization in the setting of shock and is not appropriate.
In the treatment of STEMI, β-blockers are recommended at the time of initial presentation, except in patients with evidence of hypotension, cardiogenic shock, pulmonary congestion, advanced atrioventricular block, or other contraindications to β-blocker therapy. Intravenous metoprolol is the most widely used β-blocker for STEMI treatment. In this case, β-blockade should be withheld and introduced following reperfusion therapy.
Intravenous nitroglycerin can be used to treat patients with STEMI and hypertension or heart failure but should be avoided in the setting of systolic blood pressure less than 90 mm Hg, significant bradycardia or tachycardia, right ventricular infarction, or use of a phosphodiesterase inhibitor (such as sildenafil) in the past 24 to 48 hours.
Because the rates of achieving vessel patency are higher and more reliable with primary PCI than with thrombolysis, primary PCI is the preferred method of treating STEMI. Thrombolytic therapy would be indicated in this patient with STEMI if transfer to a PCI-capable center would result in a first medical contact–to–device time of more than 120 minutes.

**Bibliography**

O’Gara PT, Kushner FG, Ascheim DD, Casey DE Jr, Chung MK, de Lemos JA, et al; American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2013;127:e362-425. PMID: 23247304 doi:10.1161/CIR.0b013e3182742cf6

This content was last updated in August 2018.