
### Correct Answer: D) Repeat echocardiography in 6 months 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient with a bicuspid aortic valve and enlarged aortic root with surveillance echocardiography.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with a bicuspid aortic valve and a thoracic aortic aneurysm should undergo echocardiography every 6 months if the aortic diameter is larger than 4.5 cm or the rate of enlargement exceeds 0.5 cm/year.

The most appropriate management of this patient with an ascending thoracic aortic aneurysm and a bicuspid aortic valve is repeat echocardiography in 6 months. Patients with a bicuspid aortic valve are prone to enlargement of the ascending aorta, and patients with both a bicuspid aortic valve and enlarged aortic dimensions are at higher risk for aortic dissection. Surveillance echocardiography should be performed in these patients to monitor aortic growth. Patients with a bicuspid aortic valve and a thoracic aortic aneurysm should undergo annual imaging if the aortic diameter has been stable and smaller than 4.5 cm. If the aortic diameter is 4.5 cm or larger or the rate of enlargement exceeds 0.5 cm/year, imaging should be performed every 6 months.
Operative aortic valve repair or replacement is indicated in asymptomatic patients with a bicuspid aortic valve and a thoracic aortic aneurysm diameter of 5.5 cm or larger, according to American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines. However, surgical intervention can be beneficial in those patients with a bicuspid aortic valve, thoracic aortic aneurysm diameter of 5.0 cm or larger, and an additional risk factor for dissection/rupture (such as family history of aortic dissection or aortic growth rate ≥0.5 cm/year). In this asymptomatic patient with an ascending aortic diameter of 5.1 cm without additional risk factors, it is premature to repair or replace the aorta.
Some patients with reduced left ventricular (LV) function and calcific aortic stenosis have severe aortic stenosis based on valve area but a gradient that is less than 30 mm Hg. Whether symptoms in this “low-flow/low-gradient” aortic stenosis are caused primarily by aortic valve disease with resultant LV dysfunction or the effective valve area is reduced owing to poor leaflet excursion can be best determined with dobutamine stress echocardiography. In this patient, there is no indication to perform dobutamine stress echocardiography, as he has normal LV function.

**Bibliography**

Hiratzka LF, Creager MA, Isselbacher EM, Svensson LG, Nishimura RA, Bonow RO, et al. Surgery for aortic dilatation in patients with bicuspid aortic valves: a statement of clarification from the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2016;67:724-31. PMID: 26658475 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2015.11.006

This content was last updated in August 2018.