
### Correct Answer: B) External event recorder 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient for an arrhythmia.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with infrequent episodes of palpitations, presyncope, or syncope, an event recorder may be used to correlate symptoms with an arrhythmia.

An event recorder is the most appropriate diagnostic testing option for this patient. Because he has symptomatic palpitations associated with lightheadedness and near-syncope, evaluation to identify the type and source of any present arrhythmias is important to his care. The intermittent and fleeting nature of arrhythmias can make diagnosis difficult. Diagnostic studies are selected on the basis of the presence and frequency of the patient's symptoms and the duration and timing of the recording. The diagnostic study best suited to capture this patient's symptomatic episodes is an external event recorder. The basic event monitor involves the patient activating or “triggering” the event monitor at the time of symptoms, capturing the rhythm. Some models capture the rhythm only at the time the event recorder is activated or held to the chest, or when electrodes are applied. Other models can capture the rhythm before and after the patient activates the recorder. The newest models are real-time continuous monitoring systems that automatically record and transmit heart rhythm data from the ambulatory patient to a monitoring station; data can also be sent at the time of patient activation. Patients are encouraged to keep a diary of when symptoms occur so that they may be correlated with arrhythmias shown on the electrocardiographic (ECG) tracing.
An electrophysiology study may be appropriate if this patient's arrhythmia cannot be diagnosed on the basis of less invasive techniques. It may also be helpful therapeutically if the rhythm is amenable to ablation.
Ambulatory ECG monitors are helpful in identifying arrhythmias in patients with daily symptoms. They can also be used to monitor for arrhythmias that may be asymptomatic, such as atrial fibrillation. This patient's symptoms occur once or twice per week; therefore, a 24-hour ambulatory ECG monitor may not capture the arrhythmia.
In patients with very infrequent or rare episodes (>30 days between episodes), an implantable loop recorder may be appropriate; however, these devices should not be used for initial evaluation, given the cost and risks, although minimal, associated with implantation. Implantable loop recorders can remain in place for years to evaluate for infrequent arrhythmias.

**Bibliography**

Ruwald MH, Zareba W. ECG monitoring in syncope. Prog Cardiovasc Dis. 2013;56:203-10. PMID: 24215752 doi:10.1016/j.pcad.2013.08.007

This content was last updated in August 2018.