
### Correct Answer: E) Urgent invasive angiography 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient with acute limb ischemia.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with acute limb ischemia, invasive angiography should be performed immediately to define the anatomic level of occlusion and plan for revascularization.

The most appropriate next step in the management of this patient with acute limb ischemia (ALI) is urgent invasive angiography to determine the extent of disease and to plan treatment. ALI is defined by a sudden or rapid decrease in limb perfusion, often manifested as a new pulse deficit, rest pain, pallor, and/or paralysis. The most common causes of ALI include in situ thrombosis of a lower extremity bypass graft or endovascular stent and thromboembolism. Patients with ALI and a viable extremity are most commonly treated with surgical embolectomy or catheter-directed thrombolysis. This patient is demonstrating several classic signs of ALI, including pulselessness, pallor, and pain, and he is at heightened risk for ALI owing to his history of femoral-popliteal bypass graft surgery. The most appropriate next step is to perform invasive angiography to define the level of occlusion and to determine whether surgical embolectomy or catheter-directed thrombolysis is an option. Delay in treatment may lead to worsening limb perfusion, limb necrosis, or the need for lower extremity amputation.
Noninvasive imaging studies, such as arterial duplex ultrasonography and CT angiography, may be useful to detect the level of stenosis and extent of disease, but these tests will substantially delay the treatment of ALI in this patient.
Emergent lower extremity amputation is necessary in patients with ALI who have a nonviable extremity (gangrene, paralysis); however, this patient exhibits signs of viability (intact sensation and muscle strength) and should not undergo immediate amputation.
In contrast to the treatment of acute ischemic stroke or acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction, systemic thrombolytic therapy (such as with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator) has not been proved beneficial in the treatment of ALI and should not be used in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Creager MA, Kaufman JA, Conte MS. Clinical practice. Acute limb ischemia. N Engl J Med. 2012;366:2198-206. PMID: 22670905 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp1006054

This content was last updated in August 2018.