
### Correct Answer: D) Cannot be determined 

**Educational Objective:** Interpret B-type natriuretic peptide level in a patient with obesity and dyspnea.

#### **Key Point:** Common factors other than ventricular wall stress that influence B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels include kidney failure, older age, and female sex, all of which increase BNP levels; obesity reduces BNP levels.

The cause of this patient's dyspnea is indeterminate on the basis of the B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) level of 128 pg/mL (128 ng/L). In the Breathing Not Properly study of patients who presented to the emergency department with dyspnea, patients with heart failure had a mean BNP level greater than 600 pg/mL (600 ng/L), whereas those with noncardiac causes of dyspnea had levels of approximately 50 pg/mL (50 ng/L). Patients with a history of left ventricular dysfunction but not an acute exacerbation had a BNP level of approximately 200 pg/mL (200 ng/L). In a pooled analysis of 10 studies, BNP values less than 100 pg/mL (100 ng/L) excluded heart failure (90% sensitivity) and greater than 400 pg/mL (400 ng/L) supported the diagnosis of heart failure (74% specificity). BNP levels increase with age and worsening kidney function and are reduced in patients with an elevated BMI. BNP values less than 55 pg/mL (55 ng/L) are likely to rule out heart failure in patients with BMI greater than 35 (sensitivity 90%). In these patients, BNP levels greater than or equal to 170 pg/mL (170 ng/L) are 70% specific for the diagnosis of acute heart failure. This patient's BNP level is not helpful in ruling in or ruling out cardiac disease as the cause of her dyspnea, and further evaluation is required.

**Bibliography**

Daniels LB, Clopton P, Bhalla V, Krishnaswamy P, Nowak RM, McCord J, et al. How obesity affects the cut-points for B-type natriuretic peptide in the diagnosis of acute heart failure. Results from the Breathing Not Properly Multinational Study. Am Heart J. 2006;151:999-1005. PMID: 16644321

This content was last updated in August 2018.