
### Correct Answer: B) Invasive angiography of the left leg 

**Educational Objective:** Treat critical limb ischemia.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with critical limb ischemia, immediate invasive angiography with endovascular revascularization is often the most effective strategy to preserve tissue viability.

The most appropriate next step in the management of this patient with critical limb ischemia is to perform invasive angiography of the affected limb with the intent to revascularize. Critical limb ischemia is a severe form of peripheral artery disease (PAD) characterized by ischemic rest pain and ulceration. Clinical findings in a patient with critical limb ischemia include an ankle-brachial index less than 0.40, a flat waveform on pulse volume recording, and low or absent pedal flow on duplex ultrasonography. In patients who undergo successful limb revascularization, the 1-year risk for major amputation is significantly lower than that in patients who do not undergo revascularization.
Vorapaxar inhibits thrombin-induced and thrombin receptor agonist peptide–induced platelet aggregation. In the TRA 2P–TIMI 50 trial, vorapaxar reduced hospitalizations for acute limb ischemia, mainly among patients who had previously undergone revascularization. The role of vorapaxar in patients with PAD is yet to be established.
Owing to the high morbidity and mortality associated with critical limb ischemia, immediate invasive angiography with endovascular revascularization, without additional noninvasive imaging, is often the most effective strategy to preserve tissue viability. Imaging studies such as magnetic resonance angiography would result in treatment time delays in this patient with critical limb ischemia and a viable limb. He should be referred directly for angiography and revascularization.
In patients with critical limb ischemia and a viable limb, angiography and revascularization is always preferred to primary major amputation of the lower extremity. Patients older than 65 years who undergo major amputation have a 1-year mortality rate of nearly 50% and a 3-year mortality rate higher than 70%.

**Bibliography**

Gerhard-Herman MD, Gornik HL, Barrett C, Barshes NR, Corriere MA, Drachman DE, et al. 2016 AHA/ACC guideline on the management of patients with lower extremity peripheral artery disease: executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2017;69:1465-1508. PMID: 27851991 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2016.11.008

This content was last updated in August 2018.