
### Correct Answer: A) Cardiac catheterization 

**Educational Objective:** Manage atrioventricular block in the setting of an acute coronary syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with atrioventricular block and evidence of acute coronary syndrome should undergo cardiac catheterization for diagnosis and possible revascularization.

This patient has Mobitz type 1 second-degree atrioventricular (AV) block and evidence of an acute coronary syndrome, and she should undergo cardiac catheterization for emergent revascularization. This patient's chest pain, ST-segment elevation, and elevated troponin T level all indicate acute myocardial infarction. Additionally, the electrocardiogram demonstrates second-degree AV block, which is characterized by nonconducted P waves. The progressive prolongation of the PR interval before loss of AV conduction is consistent with Mobitz type 1 (Wenckebach block). There are many causes of AV block, including fibrosis and sclerosis of the conduction system, ischemic heart disease, and medication use (β-blockers, calcium channel blockers, digoxin). Reversible causes of AV block should always be identified and treated first. In this patient, cardiac catheterization and revascularization are indicated not only to treat the acute coronary obstruction but also to potentially correct the conduction deficit.
Transthoracic echocardiography should be performed in patients with myocardial infarction to evaluate left ventricular function and assess for potential structural complications; however, obtaining an echocardiogram is not the priority in this patient and does not help manage the arrhythmia. The most appropriate next step is cardiac catheterization.
Permanent or temporary pacemaker placement is not required in this case because the patient does not have symptomatic or hemodynamically unstable bradycardia or advanced AV block (high-degree AV block, Mobitz type 2 second-degree, or third-degree AV block). If symptomatic or advanced conduction block persists after revascularization, permanent pacemaker implantation would be recommended.

**Bibliography**

Epstein AE, DiMarco JP, Ellenbogen KA, Estes NA 3rd, Freedman RA, Gettes LS, et al; American College of Cardiology Foundation. 2012 ACCF/AHA/HRS focused update incorporated into the ACCF/AHA/HRS 2008 guidelines for device-based therapy of cardiac rhythm abnormalities: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2013;61:e6-75. PMID: 23265327 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2012.11.007

This content was last updated in May 2019.