
### Correct Answer: D) Clinical and echocardiographic follow-up in 6 to 12 months 

**Educational Objective:** Manage aortic regurgitation that does not meet criteria for surgical valve replacement.

#### **Key Point:** For patients with severe aortic regurgitation, indications for surgery are the presence of attributable symptoms, left ventricular ejection fraction less than 50%, or significant left ventricular dilatation; in the absence of these findings, surveillance echocardiography every 6 to 12 months is recommended.

The most appropriate next step in management is clinical and echocardiographic follow-up in 6 to 12 months. This asymptomatic patient with severe aortic regurgitation does not currently meet the criteria for surgical aortic valve replacement. For patients with severe aortic regurgitation, surgical aortic valve replacement is recommended in the presence of symptoms attributable to regurgitation, left ventricular ejection fraction less than 50%, or another indication for cardiac surgery. In addition, surgical aortic valve replacement can be beneficial in asymptomatic patients with significant left ventricular dilatation (end-systolic dimension >50 mm or indexed end-systolic dimension >25 mm/m2). In the absence of these findings, clinical evaluation and surveillance echocardiography every 6 to 12 months is recommended.
The clinical impact of β-blockers, such as carvedilol, in patients with chronic aortic regurgitation is uncertain. Carvedilol is useful in patients with severe aortic regurgitation and heart failure when combined with other standard therapies, such as diuretics, ACE inhibitors, and aldosterone antagonists; however, this patient has no indication for β-blocker therapy.
ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers may be used in patients with chronic severe aortic regurgitation and concomitant hypertension, although these agents, as well as dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, have not been shown to delay the need for surgery in asymptomatic patients without hypertension. Consequently, they are not indicated in this patient in the absence of hypertension.

**Bibliography**

Nishimura RA, Otto CM, Bonow RO, Carabello BA, Erwin JP 3rd, Guyton RA, et al; American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the management of patients with valvular heart disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2014;63:e57-185. PMID: 24603191 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2014.02.536

This content was last updated in August 2018.