
### Correct Answer: D) Valsartan 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with ST-elevation myocardial infarction and heart failure with renin-angiotensin system inhibition.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction, an ACE inhibitor should be initiated within 24 hours of presentation; an angiotensin receptor blocker may be used if the patient is intolerant of ACE inhibitors.

The most appropriate treatment of this patient with anterior ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) complicated by heart failure is valsartan. This patient is at significant risk for short-term and long-term morbidity, and early institution of guideline-directed medical therapy (within 24 hours of presentation) is crucial to improve survival and keep the patient free of symptoms. Although ACE inhibitors are indicated in most patients with STEMI and particularly in patients with impaired left ventricular function and heart failure, angiotensin receptor blockers (such as valsartan) are a suitable alternative and offer similar morbidity and mortality benefits. Additionally, angiotensin receptor blockers are associated with a significantly lower incidence of cough and angioedema than ACE inhibitors. Because this patient has a history of ACE inhibitor–induced cough, valsartan is the most appropriate choice.
In patients with STEMI, β-blockers (such as carvedilol) decrease myocardial oxygen demand, reduce the incidence of ventricular arrhythmias, and improve long-term survival. Whenever possible, β-blockers should be introduced within the first 24 hours of STEMI presentation. The COMMIT/CCS-2 trial demonstrated that early β-blocker initiation was associated with lower risk for reinfarction and lethal ventricular arrhythmias, but it also increased risk for cardiogenic shock. In this case, the patient has evidence of pulmonary edema, and early institution of β-blockade may worsen heart failure and increase the risk for cardiogenic shock. A β-blocker should be initiated once the patient is stabilized.
Like β-blockers, calcium channel blockers (such as diltiazem) are negative inotropic and chronotropic agents. However, unlike β-blockers, calcium channel blockers are generally avoided in the context of STEMI and are contraindicated with left ventricular dysfunction.
Hydralazine–isosorbide dinitrate can be used as a vasodilator, particularly as an add-on therapy in the setting of chronic heart failure, although it has been shown to be inferior to ACE inhibitors in a head-to-head study. Hydralazine–isosorbide dinitrate would not be the preferred agent in this setting, unless the patient had a significantly elevated serum creatinine level or a history of ACE inhibitor–induced angioedema.
A 2018 systematic review found that supplemental oxygen in the setting of normal peripheral oxygen saturation increases mortality in patients with acute myocardial infarction. A subsequent international guideline strongly recommends that oxygen therapy not be initiated for patients with an acute myocardial infarction and oxygen saturation as measured by pulse oximetry (SpO2) of 93% or higher. If supplemental oxygen is initiated, the guideline recommends not exceeding an SpO2 of 96%. This patient's oxygen saturation is 98%, and her supplemental oxygen should be reduced.

**Bibliography**

O’Gara PT, Kushner FG, Ascheim DD, Casey DE Jr, Chung MK, de Lemos JA, et al; American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the management of ST-elevation myocardial infarction: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2013;127:e362-425. PMID: 23247304 doi:10.1161/CIR.0b013e3182742cf6

This content was last updated in May 2019.