
### Correct Answer: B) Dose-adjusted warfarin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat atrial fibrillation in a patient with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with atrial fibrillation in the setting of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy should receive warfarin anticoagulation therapy to reduce thromboembolic risk.

The most appropriate treatment to reduce the risk for thromboembolic events in this patient is dose-adjusted warfarin. In patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), atrial fibrillation occurs in 20% to 25% of cases, and dyspnea often develops related to reduced left ventricular diastolic filling and increased left ventricular outflow tract obstruction. Restoration and maintenance of sinus rhythm are important in reducing symptoms. There is also a high incidence of stroke in patients with HCM who have atrial fibrillation, regardless of the type of atrial fibrillation (paroxysmal, persistent, or permanent), and anticoagulation to reduce thromboembolic risk must be considered. In this patient, acute anticoagulation with heparin or low-molecular-weight heparin would be appropriate before cardioversion, followed by administration of dose-adjusted warfarin to achieve an INR of 2 to 3. Two observational studies of patients with atrial fibrillation in the setting of HCM have shown reduced incidence of stroke with this strategy compared with antiplatelet therapy or no treatment.
The use of non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants, such as dabigatran, for thromboembolic risk reduction in patients with HCM has not been adequately studied, and the efficacy of these drugs in this situation is unknown. In patients with HCM who cannot take warfarin, non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants are reasonable as second-line therapy; however, use of warfarin in this patient is not contraindicated.
Although this patient's calculated CHA2DS2-VASc score is low (0 points), initiating aspirin therapy or foregoing therapy would be inappropriate according to current guidelines. The CHA2DS2-VASc scoring system is frequently used for decision making with regard to stroke risk-reduction therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation; however, the predictive use of this tool for patients with HCM has not been validated. A low CHA2DS2-VASc score may not adequately predict true thromboembolic risk in patients with HCM and should not be used to guide therapy.

**Bibliography**

Elliott PM, Anastasakis A, Borger MA, Borggrefe M, Cecchi F, Charron P, et al; Authors/Task Force members. 2014 ESC guidelines on diagnosis and management of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: the Task Force for the Diagnosis and Management of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC). Eur Heart J. 2014;35:2733-79. PMID: 25173338 doi:10.1093/eurheartj/ehu284

This content was last updated in March 2021.