
### Correct Answer: A) Cardiac catheterization 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate the severity of aortic stenosis with cardiac catheterization.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with symptoms of aortic stenosis and discrepancies between the physical examination and echocardiographic findings, the severity of stenosis should be established with cardiac catheterization before aortic valve replacement is performed.

The most appropriate next step in management is cardiac catheterization. In patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis, surgery with aortic valve replacement is indicated as a life-saving therapy. However, accurate measures of the severity of stenosis are needed to ensure that symptoms are caused by valve obstruction, rather than concurrent coronary, pulmonary, or other systemic disease. The severity of aortic stenosis is determined by Doppler echocardiography and sometimes cardiac catheterization. In some patients, the Doppler echocardiogram may underestimate severity because of the angle-dependent nature of the study. An invasive hemodynamic study is indicated in symptomatic patients being considered for surgery when there are discrepancies between the findings on physical examination and the echocardiographic results. This patient's exertional dyspnea and physical examination findings (carotid tardus, diminished aortic component of S2, late-peaking systolic murmur) are consistent with severe aortic stenosis; however, the echocardiogram reveals findings of only moderate aortic stenosis. Therefore, further evaluation with cardiac catheterization is needed.
Surgical or transcatheter aortic valve replacement is not indicated in this patient until there is certainty that the aortic valve lesion is severe and can account for the patient's symptoms.
Identification of symptomatic aortic stenosis is crucial; in the absence of symptoms, patients with aortic stenosis—even severe aortic stenosis—have a low risk for mortality, with an estimated risk for sudden death of less than 1%. Although variable, symptoms of heart failure, angina, or syncope generally begin once the valve area is below 1.0 cm2. Once symptoms develop, prognosis is poor without valve replacement, with an average survival of less than 10% over the next 2 to 3 years. Therefore, continued clinical observation is not the best option for this patient.

**Bibliography**

Nishimura RA, Otto CM, Bonow RO, Carabello BA, Erwin JP 3rd, Fleisher LA, et al. 2017 AHA/ACC focused update of the 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the management of patients with valvular heart disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2017;70:252-289. PMID: 28315732 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2017.03.011

This content was last updated in August 2018.