
### Correct Answer: D) Follow-up in 3 to 5 years 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient with a ventricular septal defect.

#### **Key Point:** Periodic follow-up with clinical evaluation and imaging are appropriate in patients with a small uncomplicated ventricular septal defect.

The most appropriate management for this patient with a small uncomplicated ventricular septal defect (VSD) is follow-up in 3 to 5 years. VSDs are defined by their location on the ventricular septum. The most common type of VSD is perimembranous, making up 80% of cases; these are usually isolated abnormalities. She has no associated symptoms, volume overload of the left heart, pulmonary hypertension, or valve regurgitation; therefore, periodic clinical evaluation and imaging are recommended. If pulmonary vascular disease is present (pulmonary artery systolic pressure >50 mm Hg), patients should be advised against isometric or competitive exercise. In the absence of pulmonary hypertension, pregnancy in women with VSDs is generally well tolerated. It is unnecessary to suggest activity restriction in this patient with a small VSD and normal pulmonary artery pressure, and pregnancy should not be complicated by the VSD.
Cardiac catheterization is not indicated for this patient because her clinical presentation and echocardiogram do not demonstrate features of left heart enlargement or pulmonary hypertension. Cardiac catheterization is primarily performed to delineate the shunt ratio and to determine pulmonary pressures if clinical uncertainty exists regarding the degree or impact of a shunt, or if the VSD is incompletely assessed by echocardiographic measures.
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging will usually demonstrate a membranous VSD and can quantitate the impact of the shunt on the left heart; however, it is not indicated in this patient because the clinical and echocardiographic assessment are sufficient to suggest that observation is appropriate.
Endocarditis prophylaxis is recommended for patients with unrepaired cyanotic congenital heart disease, including palliative shunts and conduits; a congenital heart defect that has been completely repaired with prosthetic material or device during the first 6 months after the procedure; and repaired congenital heart disease with residual defects. Patients with uncomplicated VSDs without a history of endocarditis do not require endocarditis prophylaxis.

**Bibliography**

Penny DJ, Vick GW 3rd. Ventricular septal defect. Lancet. 2011;377:1103-12. PMID: 21349577 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(10)61339-6

This content was last updated in August 2018.