
### Correct Answer: A) Cardiac tamponade 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose cardiac tamponade.

#### **Key Point:** Findings of congestion, hypotension, pulsus paradoxus, enlarged cardiac silhouette on chest radiograph, and electrical alternans on electrocardiogram support the diagnosis of cardiac tamponade.

The most likely diagnosis is cardiac tamponade. Pericarditis is a common cardiac manifestation of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), occurring in up to 40% of patients with SLE. Pericarditis may be associated with a neutrophilic pericardial effusion that can rarely lead to tamponade. In this patient, progressive dyspnea, fatigue, chest fullness, and peripheral edema are symptoms consistent with significant cardiac tamponade, and the physical examination findings of jugular venous distention and pulsus paradoxus (fall in systolic pressure of >10 mm Hg with inspiration) are supportive. The chest radiograph demonstrates an enlarged cardiac silhouette (“water-bottle heart”), and the electrocardiogram demonstrates electrical alternans, which may represent swinging of the heart within a large pericardial effusion. This patient also has supraventricular tachycardia.
The pericardium in constrictive pericarditis is rigid and noncompliant, resulting in a total cardiac volume that is largely fixed. Ventricular filling occurs rapidly in early diastole and terminates abruptly near mid-diastole owing to the pericardial restraint. The jugular venous pressure is elevated in nearly all patients, with prominent x and y descents. Physical findings that also may be present include a pericardial knock, pulsus paradoxus, pleural effusion, congestive hepatomegaly, and peripheral edema or ascites. In patients with long-standing constrictive pericarditis, hepatic failure and cirrhosis may be present. Pericardial constriction would not lead to a large cardiac silhouette or electrical alternans, as seen in this patient.
Patients with SLE have increased risk for venous thromboembolic disease. The electrocardiogram in acute pulmonary embolism most commonly demonstrates sinus tachycardia but may also show a new complete or incomplete right bundle branch block or an S1Q3T3 pattern (prominent S wave in lead I, Q wave in lead III, and inverted T wave in lead III). An enlarged globular heart on chest radiograph and electrical alternans on electrocardiogram are not features.
Patients with SLE may have pulmonary thromboembolic disease, pulmonary veno-occlusive disease, or advanced interstitial lung disease with hypoxemia leading to pulmonary hypertension; however, severe symptomatic pulmonary hypertension is more commonly associated with scleroderma or mixed connective tissue disease. An enlarged globular heart on chest radiograph would be unlikely, and the electrocardiogram is likely to demonstrate a right axis deviation and right ventricular hypertrophy but not electrical alternans.

**Bibliography**

Imazio M. Pericardial involvement in systemic inflammatory diseases. Heart. 2011;97:1882-92. PMID: 22016400 doi:10.1136/heartjnl-2011-300054

This content was last updated in August 2018.