
### Correct Answer: B) Coronary artery calcium scoring 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with intermediate cardiovascular risk with coronary artery calcium scoring.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with borderline or intermediate 10-year risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, coronary artery calcium scoring may be used to further risk-stratify patients to guide primary prevention therapy.

This asymptomatic patient at borderline risk for coronary artery disease can undergo coronary artery calcium (CAC) scoring for further risk stratification. Using the Pooled Cohort Equations, the 10-year atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk for fatal and nonfatal myocardial infarction or stroke can be categorized as low (<5%), borderline (5% to <7.5%), intermediate (≥7.5% to <20%), and high (≥20%). In adults at borderline or intermediate risk, the presence of risk-enhancing factors may justify initiation of moderate-intensity statin therapy. Risk enhancers include family history of premature ASCVD, LDL cholesterol level of 160 mg/dL (4.14 mmol/L) or higher, metabolic syndrome, chronic kidney disease, chronic inflammatory conditions, history of premature menopause, history of preeclampsia, South Asian ancestry, or triglyceride level of 175 mg/dL (1.98 mmol/L) or higher. If the decision about initiating statin therapy remains uncertain, it is reasonable to obtain a CAC score to guide therapeutic decisions. If the CAC score is 0, it is appropriate to withhold statin therapy and reassess in 5 to 10 years as long as higher-risk conditions (such as family history of premature ASCVD and cigarette smoking) are absent. If the CAC score is 1 to 99, it is reasonable to initiate statin therapy for most patients aged 55 years or older. In patients with a CAC score of 100 or higher or at the 75th percentile or higher, it is reasonable to initiate statin therapy regardless of age.
Physiologic tests of coronary perfusion are not indicated because this patient is asymptomatic. Furthermore, adenosine cardiac magnetic resonance imaging, exercise stress echocardiography, and pharmacologic nuclear stress testing are not used to reclassify risk among asymptomatic patients.
Elevated levels of lipoprotein(a), a subtype of LDL cholesterol, have been associated with increased risk for cardiovascular disease, especially coronary artery disease. However, this marker is not routinely used for purposes of reclassification of asymptomatic patients. A relative indication for its measurement is family history of premature ASCVD. In this patient at borderline risk, a CAC score is more likely to provide actionable guidance.

**Bibliography**

Nezarat N, Kim M, Budoff M. Role of coronary calcium for risk stratification and prognostication. Curr Treat Options Cardiovasc Med. 2017 Feb;19(2):8. PMID: 28275938

This content was last updated in May 2019.