
### Correct Answer: D) Discontinue aspirin and begin oral anticoagulation 

**Educational Objective:** Manage antithrombotic therapy in a patient with atrial fibrillation and coronary artery disease.

#### **Key Point:** For most patients with high-risk atrial fibrillation and stable coronary artery disease, oral anticoagulation therapy without an antiplatelet agent is sufficient for prevention of both acute coronary syndromes and thromboembolism.

This patient with coronary artery disease (CAD) and atrial fibrillation should be treated with oral anticoagulation alone. Thromboembolism (stroke or systemic embolism) is the most feared and devastating complication of atrial fibrillation. Patients with atrial fibrillation and a moderate to high risk for stroke (CHA2DS2-VASc score ≥2 in men and ≥3 in women) should be treated with oral anticoagulation for stroke prevention. This patient has a CHA2DS2-VASc score of 5 (1 point each for female sex, hypertension, and vascular disease; 2 points for age ≥75 years) and should receive oral anticoagulation therapy. Dose-adjusted warfarin is an effective low-cost option for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation. The chief limitations of warfarin are the need for frequent INR monitoring and adjustment as well as the numerous food and drug interactions associated with its use. The FDA has approved several non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants for the prevention of stroke in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, including dabigatran, rivaroxaban, edoxaban, and apixaban. These agents are preferred to warfarin in the prevention of stroke in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and do not necessitate routine coagulation monitoring. Warfarin remains the agent of choice in patients with valvular atrial fibrillation (moderate to severe rheumatic mitral stenosis).
Antiplatelet therapy with aspirin is typically indicated in patients with CAD; however, aspirin alone or dual antiplatelet therapy (aspirin plus clopidogrel) is insufficient for stroke prevention in patients at high risk, such as this one.
Combination therapy with oral anticoagulation and antiplatelet therapy, such as aspirin or clopidogrel, is associated with significantly increased risk for bleeding and no apparent incremental benefit. This patient already has several risk factors for bleeding, including a low BMI, hypertension, and female sex, and it is important to minimize the risk for bleeding when oral anticoagulation is prescribed. In patients with atrial fibrillation and CAD, it is recommended that antiplatelet therapy be discontinued unless the patient has recent active CAD, defined as acute coronary syndrome or revascularization in the past 12 months. Because this patient has a history of percutaneous coronary intervention performed 5 years ago, there is no indication for concomitant antiplatelet therapy with oral anticoagulation.

**Bibliography**

Steinberg BA, Kim S, Piccini JP, Fonarow GC, Lopes RD, Thomas L, et al; ORBIT-AF Investigators and Patients. Use and associated risks of concomitant aspirin therapy with oral anticoagulation in patients with atrial fibrillation: insights from the Outcomes Registry for Better Informed Treatment of Atrial Fibrillation (ORBIT-AF) Registry. Circulation. 2013;128:721-8. PMID: 23861512 doi:10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.113.002927

This content was last updated in May 2019.