
### Correct Answer: A) Add bisoprolol 

**Educational Objective:** Treat heart failure with reduced ejection fraction with β-blocker therapy.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction, β-blockers improve remodeling, increase ejection fraction, and reduce hospitalization and mortality when added to ACE inhibitor and diuretic therapy.

This patient with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) should be started on a β-blocker, such as bisoprolol. In patients with heart failure, each follow-up visit should include evaluation for progression of heart failure symptoms, assessment of volume status, and a review of the patient's medications to ensure guideline-directed treatment. Optimal medical therapy includes an ACE inhibitor, β-blocker (specifically, metoprolol succinate, carvedilol, or bisoprolol), and an aldosterone antagonist (in symptomatic patients). β-Blockers improve remodeling, increase ejection fraction, and reduce hospitalization and mortality when added to ACE inhibitor and diuretic therapy. β-Blocker and ACE inhibitor therapies are indicated for all classes of heart failure, including New York Heart Association functional class I. This patient was discharged from the hospital before initiation of β-blocker therapy, and he should be started on bisoprolol now.
Diltiazem and verapamil are associated with worse outcomes in patients with HFrEF, and these agents should not be used in this population. If calcium channel blockers are necessary for hypertension treatment, amlodipine or felodipine have been shown to be safe in patients with heart failure.
Aldosterone antagonists (spironolactone, eplerenone) have been studied in patients with heart failure and New York Heart Association functional class II to IV symptoms and have been shown to reduce mortality and morbidity. Because of the risk for kidney dysfunction and hyperkalemia, these drugs should be used only in patients with a serum creatinine level below 2.5 mg/dL (221 µmol/L) in men or below 2.0 mg/dL (176.8 µmol/L) in women, and with a serum potassium level below 5.0 mEq/L (5.0 mmol/L). These drugs are not as effective as diuretics at the doses used in heart failure therapy (12.5-25 mg/d for spironolactone, 25-50 mg/d for eplerenone). The patient is asymptomatic now, and spironolactone is not indicated. If it were indicated, it would not be added until after uptitration of the β-blocker and ACE inhibitor doses.
Angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), such as losartan, are a suitable alternative to ACE inhibitors for the treatment of HFrEF and offer similar morbidity and mortality benefits. In patients taking an ACE inhibitor, the primary reason to switch to an ARB is ACE inhibitor–induced cough or angioedema. Caution should be exercised when switching patients to an ARB as a result of angioedema because this side effect has been reported with ARB therapy as well. This patient does not have side effects that would prompt switching an ACE inhibitor to an ARB.

**Bibliography**

Goldberg LR. In the clinic. Heart failure. Ann Intern Med. 2010;152:ITC61-15; quiz ITC616. PMID: 20513825

This content was last updated in August 2018.