
### Correct Answer: B) Coronary artery bypass graft surgery 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with multivessel coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction with coronary artery bypass graft surgery.

#### **Key Point:** Coronary artery bypass graft surgery is recommended to improve survival in patients with multivessel coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction and patients with diabetes mellitus and multivessel disease.

The most appropriate treatment is coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery. This patient with three-vessel coronary artery disease (CAD), left ventricular dysfunction, and type 2 diabetes mellitus has symptoms of heart failure and angina despite optimal medical therapy. In patients with multivessel coronary artery disease, revascularization with CABG results in decreased recurrence of angina, lower rates of myocardial infarction, and fewer repeat revascularization procedures compared with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Unlike PCI, CABG surgery improves survival in patients with left main or three-vessel CAD and is recommended to reduce mortality in these high-risk patients. CABG surgery has also been shown to improve symptoms and survival in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy. Long-term follow-up of the STICH trial demonstrated a survival advantage with CABG surgery compared with medical therapy alone among patients with multivessel CAD and severe left ventricular dysfunction. Additionally, CABG surgery has consistently been shown to be the superior revascularization strategy in patients with diabetes and multivessel disease who require revascularization.
Ticagrelor is indicated as a component of dual antiplatelet therapy following acute coronary syndrome, regardless of whether percutaneous coronary intervention is performed. However, there is no clear role for the addition of ticagrelor in this patient.
This patient has two separate indications for CABG surgery: (1) multivessel disease and reduced ejection fraction and (2) diabetes with concomitant multivessel disease. Patients with these indications who undergo CABG have improved survival compared with patients who receive only optimal medical therapy. Therefore, continuing this patient's medical therapy without further intervention would be inappropriate.

**Bibliography**

Velazquez EJ, Lee KL, Jones RH, Al-Khalidi HR, Hill JA, Panza JA, et al; STICHES Investigators. Coronary-artery bypass surgery in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy. N Engl J Med. 2016;374:1511-20. PMID: 27040723 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1602001

This content was last updated in August 2018.