
### Correct Answer: C) Transcatheter mitral valve repair 

**Educational Objective:** Treat mitral regurgitation with transcatheter mitral valve repair.

#### **Key Point:** Transcatheter mitral valve repair is indicated for symptomatic patients with degenerative mitral regurgitation who are not surgical candidates.

The most appropriate next step in management is transcatheter mitral valve repair. Acute severe mitral regurgitation is associated with papillary muscle rupture following acute myocardial infarction, flail mitral valve (dissociation of the valve leaflet from the chordae), and infective endocarditis with leaflet perforation. The sudden large volume in the left atrium and ventricle results in rapid increases in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and left atrial pressure, which lead to elevated pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary edema. The diminished left ventricular stroke volume leads to hypotension and shock. Definitive therapy for severe mitral regurgitation is mitral valve surgery. Patients with acute severe mitral regurgitation typically require urgent surgery after hemodynamic stabilization. Positive inotropes, vasodilators, and diuretics are often used for symptom control and as a bridge to cardiac surgery. Mechanical support (for example, with an intra-aortic balloon pump) may be required before or during valve replacement.
Two surgical options are available: mitral valve repair and mitral valve replacement. Mitral valve repair is typically preferred to valve replacement because it is associated with better clinical outcomes. A nonoperative procedure, transcatheter mitral valve repair, is indicated for symptomatic patients with degenerative mitral regurgitation who are at prohibitive surgical risk, such as this patient. With this technique, the mitral valve is plicated using an approach from the femoral vein. In experienced centers, success rates are approximately 90%, with procedural mortality of approximately 2%.
Continuing the patient's current medical therapy is inappropriate. Acute severe mitral regurgitation is an emergency, and prompt mitral valve repair or replacement should be considered for all patients.

**Bibliography**

Sorajja P, Mack M, Vemulapalli S, Holmes DR Jr, Stebbins A, Kar S, et al. Initial experience with commercial transcatheter mitral valve repair in the United States. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2016;67:1129-40. PMID: 26965532 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2015.12.054

This content was last updated in August 2018.