
### Correct Answer: C) High-intensity atorvastatin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with peripheral artery disease with statin therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with peripheral artery disease should be treated with statin therapy.

The most appropriate treatment is high-intensity atorvastatin. This patient with claudication has an ankle-brachial index of less than or equal to 0.90 on the right side, which is diagnostic for peripheral artery disease (PAD). PAD is considered a form of clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD), and as such, this patient should be started on secondary prevention therapy. Additional forms of ASCVD include acute coronary syndrome, history of myocardial infarction, stable or unstable angina, coronary or other arterial revascularization, stroke, or transient ischemic attack. Patients aged 75 years or younger with ASCVD should be started on high-intensity statin therapy, unless a contraindication exists. Options for high-intensity statin therapy include atorvastatin, 40 mg/d or 80 mg/d, and rosuvastatin, 20 mg/d or 40 mg/d.
Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitors, such as evolocumab, dramatically decrease LDL cholesterol levels. PCSK9 inhibitors are currently approved as adjunctive therapy to diet and maximally tolerated lipid-lowering therapy (statin and ezetimibe) in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia who have not achieved adequate LDL cholesterol reduction. In patients with clinical ASCVD who are at very high risk (multiple ASCVD events, or one ASCVD event and multiple ASCVD risk factors) and have an LDL cholesterol level of 70 mg/dL (1.81 mmol/L) or higher or a non-HDL cholesterol level of 100 mg/dL (2.59 mmol/L) or higher despite maximally tolerated lipid-lowering therapy, it is reasonable to add a PCSK9 inhibitor following a clinician–patient discussion about the net benefit, safety, and cost. Treatment with evolocumab has been associated with a reduction in the composite outcome of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, stroke, hospitalization for unstable angina, and coronary revascularization but not cardiovascular mortality or all-cause mortality.
Ezetimibe impairs intestinal cholesterol absorption, resulting in a significant reduction in LDL cholesterol levels. Several trials have shown clinical benefit when ezetimibe is added to statin therapy. However, this patient is not yet taking a statin, and ezetimibe is not appropriate as monotherapy.
Moderate-intensity statin therapy with pravastatin is not the first choice for patients with clinical ASCVD because high-intensity statin therapy offers superior benefits in patients aged 75 years or younger. Patients older than 75 years can be considered for moderate-intensity statin therapy.
Using the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association risk estimator based on the Pooled Cohort Equations, the 10-year risk for ASCVD can be categorized as low (<5%), borderline (5% to <7.5%), intermediate (≥7.5% to <20%), or high (≥20%). All patients with borderline ASCVD risk and risk-enhancing factors should be engaged in a risk reduction discussion that includes the initiation of moderate-intensity statin therapy. However, this patient with PAD has established ASCVD, and high-intensity statin therapy is indicated.

**Bibliography**

Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, Beam C, Birtcher KK, Blumenthal RS, et al. 2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guideline on the management of blood cholesterol. Circulation. 2018:CIR0000000000000625. PMID: 30586774 doi:10.1161/CIR.0000000000000625

This content was last updated in March 2021.