
### Correct Answer: C) Left ventricular assist device placement 

**Educational Objective:** Manage end-stage heart failure with a left ventricular assist device.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with end-stage heart failure should be considered for cardiac transplantation or mechanical circulatory support with left ventricular assist device placement.

The most appropriate management is left ventricular assist device (LVAD) placement. This patient has several signs and symptoms of advanced refractory heart failure, including New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class IV symptoms despite optimal medical therapy, a low sodium level, worsening kidney function, low pulse pressure, cool extremities, and repeat hospitalizations in the past 6 months. In patients with end-stage heart failure, advanced treatments, including cardiac transplantation or mechanical circulatory support with an LVAD, should be considered. This patient is a good candidate for an LVAD as destination therapy. Placement of a continuous-flow LVAD reduces symptoms and improves survival compared with medical therapy in patients with end-stage heart failure. Although LVADs increase survival rates, they are associated with serious complications, including infection, gastrointestinal bleeding, stroke, and pump thrombus. All patients with progressive heart failure symptoms should be engaged in a discussion about their prognosis, treatment options (including hospice), and the risks and benefits of each therapy.
Cardiac resynchronization therapy is indicated in patients with an ejection fraction less than or equal to 35%, NYHA functional class II to IV heart failure symptoms despite guideline-directed medical therapy, sinus rhythm, and left bundle branch block with a QRS complex of 150 ms or greater. This patient does not meet the electrocardiographic criteria.
Cardiac transplantation remains the gold standard therapy for patients with end-stage heart failure. Indications for cardiac transplantation in these patients include age younger than 65 to 70 years, no medical contraindications (diabetes with end-organ complications, malignancies within 5 years, kidney dysfunction, other chronic illnesses that will decrease survival), and good social support and adherence. Heart transplant is contraindicated in this patient.
This patient has significant mitral regurgitation, most likely secondary to his dilated left ventricle; however, mitral valve repair is unlikely to substantially improve his heart failure symptoms.

**Bibliography**

Stokes MB, Bergin P, McGiffin D. Role of long-term mechanical circulatory support in patients with advanced heart failure. Intern Med J. 2016;46:530-40. PMID: 26010730 doi:10.1111/imj.12817

This content was last updated in August 2018.