
### Correct Answer: C) Pulmonary valve regurgitation 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose pulmonary valve regurgitation as a late consequence of tetralogy of Fallot repair.

#### **Key Point:** Pulmonary regurgitation, presenting with a single S2, a parasternal lift, and a soft systolic pulmonary outflow murmur, is the most common structural disorder resulting from tetralogy of Fallot repair.

The most likely diagnosis is pulmonary valve regurgitation, which is the most common structural disorder resulting from tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) repair. Clinical findings include features of right heart volume overload with a parasternal lift and a soft systolic pulmonary outflow murmur. A single S2 is heard because pulmonary valve function is sacrificed during TOF repair. TOF repair includes closure of the ventricular septal defect and relief of right ventricular outflow tract obstruction, which in turn results in pulmonary regurgitation, causing the diastolic murmur heard at the left sternal border that increases in intensity with inspiration. This patient's chest radiograph demonstrates evidence of previous sternotomy, a clip in the mediastinum from closure of the Blalock-Taussig shunt, a right-sided aortic arch (present in 25% of patients with TOF), and right heart enlargement (indicated by a rounded cardiac border and uplifted cardiac apex as seen on the frontal view and fullness in the retrosternal airspace [blue arrows] on lateral view). These chest radiograph findings are consistent with repaired TOF with pulmonary regurgitation resulting in right heart enlargement.
Aortic regurgitation infrequently occurs late after TOF repair owing to progressive aortic enlargement. The diastolic murmur of aortic regurgitation is generally heard at the left sternal border and decreases in intensity with inspiration. A right ventricular prominence would not be expected in a patient with aortic regurgitation.
Mitral stenosis is not expected to occur late after TOF repair. Physical examination findings include increased intensity of S1 and an apical diastolic murmur that increases during expiration.
Recurrent ventricular septal defect can occur in patients following TOF repair. However, the physical examination findings would include a systolic murmur heard at the left sternal border, which often obliterates the S1 and S2. Right ventricular prominence would not be expected in a patient with a recurrent ventricular septal defect.

**Bibliography**

Downing TE, Kim YY. Tetralogy of Fallot: general principles of management. Cardiol Clin. 2015;33:531-41, vii-viii. PMID: 26471818 doi:10.1016/j.ccl.2015.07.002

This content was last updated in August 2018.