
### Correct Answer: C) Repeat aortic ultrasonography in 24 to 36 months 

**Educational Objective:** Manage an abdominal aortic aneurysm with surveillance.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm smaller than 5.5 cm should undergo surveillance ultrasonography, with frequency determined by aneurysm size.

The most appropriate next step in the management of this patient with an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is repeat abdominal aortic ultrasonography. The optimal surveillance frequency for abdominal aortic aneurysm is controversial. As aneurysm size increases, risk for rupture also increases. For AAAs with a diameter smaller than 4.0 cm, the 5-year risk for rupture is 2%, and some guidelines recommend a surveillance interval of 24 to 36 months. AAAs with a diameter between 4.0 cm and 5.0 cm have a 5-year risk for rupture of 3% to 12%, and surveillance imaging is recommended more frequently (for example, every 6 to 12 months). AAAs with a diameter between 5.0 and 6.0 cm have a 5-year risk for rupture of 25%. Once an AAA reaches 5.5 cm in maximum diameter, surgical or endovascular repair is warranted, owing to the elevated risk for death due to aortic rupture. Repair is also indicated in patients with symptoms from AAA (abdominal tenderness or pain) and those with rapid expansion in AAA size (>0.5 cm/year). This patient with an AAA with a maximum diameter of 3.5 cm can be managed with surveillance abdominal ultrasonography. Because he is asymptomatic, he does not require surgical repair at this time.
Anatomic imaging tests, such as CT angiography or magnetic resonance angiography, are indicated to determine the exact location of the AAA (suprarenal, juxtarenal, or infrarenal) in planning for aortic repair. When an AAA does not meet the maximum diameter threshold for repair, such as in this patient, anatomic imaging with CT angiography is not indicated. Abdominal ultrasonography is preferred for serial monitoring of an AAA.
Pursuing no further testing or intervention would be inappropriate in this patient. An AAA predisposes the patient to an elevated risk for aortic rupture and death, and surveillance of the aneurysm is recommended.

**Bibliography**

Chaikof EL, Brewster DC, Dalman RL, Makaroun MS, Illig KA, Sicard GA, et al. SVS practice guidelines for the care of patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm: executive summary. J Vasc Surg. 2009;50:880-96. PMID: 19786241 doi:10.1016/j.jvs.2009.07.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.