
### Correct Answer: C) Transesophageal echocardiography 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate for perivalvular abscess in a patient with infective endocarditis.

#### **Key Point:** The preferred imaging modality for evaluating patients with a high pretest probability of infective endocarditis or with potential complications of endocarditis, such as abscess, is transesophageal echocardiography.

Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) is the most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next. According to the modified Duke criteria, this patient has definite endocarditis, with one major criterion (persistently positive blood cultures) and three minor criteria (predisposing valvular abnormality [bicuspid valve], fever with temperature >38 °C [100.4 °F], and a vascular phenomenon [conjunctival hemorrhage]). On physical examination, he has a wide pulse pressure and evidence of a murmur of aortic regurgitation, findings that further support the diagnosis. Additionally, the electrocardiogram shows PR-interval prolongation, which should raise suspicion for the presence of a periaortic abscess that is interfering with the conduction system and causing first-degree atrioventricular block. Perivalvular abscesses may be present in 30% to 40% of patients with infective endocarditis, and the risk may be further increased in those with a bicuspid aortic valve. The preferred imaging modality for evaluating patients with a high pretest probability of infective endocarditis or with potential complications of endocarditis is TEE, as it better visualizes vegetations and abscesses. TEE is also important for surgical planning.
Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging is not the most appropriate initial imaging choice for patients with infective endocarditis. CMR imaging is effective in identifying intramyocardial infection, although it is a more complex technology with limited availability in some areas. CMR imaging is often used in situations in which a perivalvular abscess is suspected but transesophageal echocardiographic findings are equivocal.
Coronary CT angiography could be used for evaluation in patients suspected of having perivalvular infections if echocardiography cannot adequately identify the anatomy.
Transthoracic echocardiography can help identify the presence of a vegetation; however, there is an increased likelihood of detecting perivalvular abscess with TEE because of the closer proximity of the ultrasound probe to the valve structures. TEE is preferred to transthoracic echocardiography if this diagnosis is a consideration.
A 2018 systematic review found that supplemental oxygen in the setting of normal oxygen saturation increases mortality in critically ill patients. A subsequent international guideline strongly recommends that oxygen therapy not be initiated for critically ill patients with an oxygen saturation as measured by pulse oximetry (SpO2) of 93% or higher. If supplemental oxygen is initiated, the guideline recommends not exceeding an SpO2 of 96%. This patient's oxygen saturation is 98%, and his supplemental oxygen should be reduced.

**Bibliography**

Iung B, Rouzet F, Brochet E, Duval X. Cardiac imaging of infective endocarditis, echo and beyond. Curr Infect Dis Rep. 2017;19:8. PMID: 28233189 doi:10.1007/s11908-017-0560-2

This content was last updated in May 2019.