
### Correct Answer: C) Percutaneous coronary intervention 

**Educational Objective:** Treat stable angina with percutaneous coronary intervention.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with stable angina, diagnostic angiography and percutaneous coronary intervention are reserved for patients with refractory angina symptoms while receiving optimal medical therapy, those who are unable to tolerate optimal medical therapy owing to side effects, or those with high-risk features on noninvasive exercise and imaging tests.

This patient with diabetes mellitus and single-vessel coronary artery disease should undergo revascularization with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or coronary artery bypass grafting. PCI has not been shown to be superior to optimal medical therapy in patients with stable angina for reduction of cardiovascular endpoints, such as mortality and myocardial infarction. However, PCI has been associated with improvement in quality of life by reducing the severity and frequency of angina. Current guidelines recommend that diagnostic angiography and PCI be reserved for patients with refractory symptoms while receiving optimal medical therapy, those who are unable to tolerate optimal medical therapy owing to side effects, or those with high-risk features on noninvasive exercise and imaging tests. This patient has 90% stenosis of the proximal left anterior descending artery and refractory symptoms; therefore, PCI is a reasonable therapeutic option.
The use of β-carotene, selenium, chromium, vitamin C, vitamin E, and estrogen has not been associated with improved cardiovascular outcomes or relief of symptoms and is not recommended in patients with ischemic heart disease.
Cardiac rehabilitation may be appropriate after revascularization occurs; however, this patient should first undergo revascularization to treat his crescendo angina symptoms.
Aspirin is associated with a decreased risk for myocardial infarction, stroke, and cardiovascular death in patients with coronary artery disease. Aspirin doses of 81 mg to 162 mg daily are recommended in all patients with established coronary artery disease unless contraindicated. In patients allergic to aspirin, clopidogrel is recommended as an alternative. The use of newer antiplatelet agents (prasugrel, ticagrelor) as monotherapy has not been tested in patients with stable angina. Dual antiplatelet therapy for chronic angina in the absence of stent placement is not recommended.

**Bibliography**

Fihn SD, Gardin JM, Abrams J, Berra K, Blankenship JC, Dallas AP, et al; American College of Cardiology Foundation; American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines; American College of Physicians; American Association for Thoracic Surgery; Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association; Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions; Society of Thoracic Surgeons. 2012 ACCF/AHA/ACP/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and the American College of Physicians, American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2012 Dec 18;60(24):e44-e164. PMID: 23182125

This content was last updated in August 2018.