
### Correct Answer: C) Exercise stress echocardiography 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate for coronary artery disease in a patient with left ventricular hypertrophy.

#### **Key Point:** Stress testing with adjunctive imaging should be performed in patients with suspected coronary artery disease who have baseline electrocardiographic (ECG) abnormalities that preclude the use of ECG stress testing, such as ST-segment depressions greater than 0.5 mm, left bundle branch block, ventricular paced complexes, digitalis effect, and preexcitation.

This patient should undergo exercise stress echocardiography to evaluate for coronary artery disease (CAD). This patient's symptoms, age, and sex place him at intermediate risk for CAD. His resting electrocardiogram (ECG) demonstrates left ventricular hypertrophy with significant repolarization abnormalities (ST-segment depressions >0.5 mm), findings that limit the ability to interpret the ECG during exercise. Because this patient requires further testing to diagnose obstructive CAD and is able to exercise, he should undergo exercise stress testing with adjunctive imaging, either echocardiography or a nuclear perfusion study. Other uninterpretable ECG findings that should prompt stress testing with imaging include left bundle branch block, ventricular paced complexes, digitalis effect, and preexcitation.
Coronary angiography is an invasive test that carries significant risks. It should be considered in patients who have a high pretest probability for obstructive CAD, including symptomatic patients with abnormal findings on noninvasive testing for CAD or patients with an acute coronary syndrome.
Coronary artery calcium scoring is predominantly used in asymptomatic patients with intermediate risk for CAD to provide additional risk stratification for the purpose of guiding primary prevention.
Exercise stress ECG is inappropriate in this patient with abnormalities on a baseline ECG. Such findings preclude the use of ECG stress testing because they interfere with the ability to accurately interpret changes that may occur with stress.
Exercise stress testing is preferred to pharmacologic stress testing in most clinical scenarios because valuable prognostic information is gained from the patient's exercise capacity. Pharmacologic nuclear stress testing is generally reserved for patients who are unable to exercise.

**Bibliography**

Fihn SD, Gardin JM, Abrams J, et al; American College of Cardiology Foundation; American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines; American College of Physicians; American Association for Thoracic Surgery; Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association; Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions; Society of Thoracic Surgeons. 2012 ACCF/AHA/ACP/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients with stable ischemic heart disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines, and the American College of Physicians, American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2012 Dec 18;60(24):e44-e164. PMID: 23182125

This content was last updated in August 2018.