
### Correct Answer: A) Continue INR-adjusted warfarin 

**Educational Objective:** Manage anticoagulation therapy in a patient with a mechanical valve prosthesis who is contemplating pregnancy.

#### **Key Point:** In pregnant patients with a mechanical valve prosthesis, warfarin is the preferred anticoagulation therapy during the first trimester if the dose is 5 mg daily or less; warfarin is preferred to all other anticoagulants during the second and early third trimesters.

The most appropriate anticoagulation regimen to prevent prosthesis thrombosis in this patient is INR-adjusted warfarin. Pregnant women with a mechanical valve prosthesis represent a high-risk subset of patients; concerns include valve thrombosis with its associated maternal risk, bleeding, and fetal morbidity and mortality. Warfarin anticoagulation appears to be the safest agent to prevent maternal prosthetic valve thrombosis; however, warfarin poses an increased fetal risk, with possible teratogenicity, miscarriage, and fetal loss due to intracranial hemorrhage. Risk to the fetus is dose related, and warfarin is the preferred anticoagulation regimen during the first trimester when the dose is 5 mg daily or less. During the second and early third trimesters, warfarin therapy is the preferred anticoagulation therapy.
Anticoagulation with apixaban is not recommended in patients with a mechanical valve prosthesis because of the potentially increased risk for valve thrombosis. In addition, its use has not been demonstrated to be safe during pregnancy.
In patients who prefer not to take warfarin during the first trimester of pregnancy, dose-adjusted intravenous unfractionated heparin can be used; however, 5000 units of unfractionated heparin will not provide adequate anticoagulation coverage for a patient with a mechanical prosthetic valve. Dose-adjusted, intravenous unfractionated heparin is an appropriate therapeutic option during the first trimester of pregnancy if the warfarin dose is more than 5 mg daily. Intravenous unfractionated heparin is the drug of choice for patients with a mechanical valve prosthesis around the time of delivery.
Weight-based low-molecular-weight heparin does not provide adequate anticoagulation coverage for a pregnant patient with a mechanical valve prosthesis and should not be used in this patient. Dose-adjusted low-molecular-weight heparin administered subcutaneously is appropriate during the first trimester if the warfarin dose is more than 5 mg daily.

**Bibliography**

Nishimura RA, Otto CM, Bonow RO, Carabello BA, Erwin JP 3rd, Guyton RA, et al; American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the management of patients with valvular heart disease: executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2014;63:2438-88. PMID: 24603192 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2014.02.537

This content was last updated in August 2018.