
### Correct Answer: B) Moxifloxacin 

**Educational Objective:** Manage acquired QT-interval prolongation.

#### **Key Point:** QT-interval prolongation has many causes, including medications such as antiarrhythmic agents, antibiotics (macrolides and fluoroquinolones), antipsychotic drugs, and antidepressants; structural heart disease; and electrolyte abnormalities.

Moxifloxacin should be discontinued in this patient who had an episode of nonsustained polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT). VT is subdivided into sustained VT and nonsustained VT. VT is sustained when it persists for longer than 30 seconds or requires termination because of hemodynamic collapse. Nonsustained VT has three or more beats but lasts for less than 30 seconds. VT is also categorized by the morphology of the QRS complexes. VT is monomorphic if QRS complexes in the same leads do not vary in contour or polymorphic if the QRS complexes in the same leads vary in contour. In this patient, the electrocardiogram obtained after the episode of VT also demonstrates QT-interval prolongation, which is consistent with the diagnosis of torsades de pointes. Torsades de pointes is a special subset of polymorphic VT; the ventricular rate ranges from 200/min to 300/min and is associated with long QT syndrome, which may be congenital or acquired. The patient's electrocardiogram was normal upon admission, and her corrected QT interval is greater than 550 ms following the arrhythmic event, suggesting an acquired long QT interval. Causes of acquired QT-interval prolongation include medications such as antiarrhythmic agents, antibiotics (macrolides and fluoroquinolones), antipsychotic drugs, and antidepressants; structural heart disease; and electrolyte abnormalities.
Although carvedilol slows the heart rate and can increase the risk for bradycardia-dependent arrhythmias in patients with acquired QT-interval prolongation, discontinuing the offending QT-prolonging agents is the most important intervention in this patient.
Simvastatin is a statin used in the treatment of dyslipidemia. It has no effect on the QT interval and does not need to be discontinued.
Venlafaxine is a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor that is used to treat depression and anxiety disorders. There is a possible risk for QT-interval prolongation with venlafaxine, but there is no evidence that this occurs when the medication is taken as recommended. Therefore, discontinuation of venlafaxine is unnecessary.

**Bibliography**

Isbister GK, Page CB. Drug induced QT prolongation: the measurement and assessment of the QT interval in clinical practice. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2013;76:48-57. PMID: 23167578 doi:10.1111/bcp.12040

This content was last updated in August 2018.