
### Correct Answer: A) Aortic valve and root replacement 

**Educational Objective:** Treat chronic aortic regurgitation with aortic valve and root replacement.

#### **Key Point:** Valve replacement surgery is recommended for asymptomatic patients with a bicuspid aortic valve and severe aortic regurgitation when the left ventricular end-systolic diameter reaches 50 mm or the left ventricular ejection fraction is less than 50%.

The most appropriate management is aortic valve and root replacement. This young, asymptomatic patient with a bicuspid aortic valve has significant aortic regurgitation. The transthoracic echocardiogram demonstrates a dilated left ventricle, mildly decreased systolic function, and a moderately dilated ascending aorta. Asymptomatic patients with severe aortic regurgitation who develop left ventricular dilatation or systolic dysfunction are at increased risk for sudden cardiac death, death, and heart failure. Therefore, these patients should be referred for aortic valve replacement. The prognosis of asymptomatic patients with severe aortic regurgitation but with normal left ventricular size and function is excellent. The American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association valvular heart disease guidelines recommend surgery in asymptomatic patients with severe aortic regurgitation when the left ventricular end-systolic dimension reaches 50 mm or the ejection fraction is less than 50%. In patients undergoing cardiac surgery, repair of the ascending aorta is indicated when the diameter exceeds 45 mm; thus, concomitant aortic root replacement, in addition to aortic valve replacement, is indicated in this patient.
In asymptomatic patients who do not meet surgical criteria, serial echocardiography is warranted to assess for disease progression. Patients with mild regurgitation should receive an annual clinical evaluation and echocardiography every 3 to 5 years, whereas patients with severe regurgitation should undergo clinical evaluation and echocardiography every 6 to 12 months.
For asymptomatic patients with normal systolic function and mild regurgitation, vasodilator therapy with nifedipine or ACE inhibitors is not recommended. For asymptomatic patients with normal systolic function and severe regurgitation, vasodilator therapy may be considered, but medical therapy does not supplant surgical intervention in these patients.
In patients with significant aortic regurgitation and equivocal symptoms, exercise-induced increases in pulmonary systolic pressure to more than 60 mm Hg (or a 25–mm Hg increase above baseline) identified during treadmill stress echocardiography suggest hemodynamic significance and may lead to earlier referral for surgical intervention. In this patient, however, ventricular dilatation and decreased ejection fraction are adequate criteria for recommending surgery.

**Bibliography**

Enriquez-Sarano M, Tajik AJ. Clinical practice. Aortic regurgitation. N Engl J Med. 2004;351:1539-46. PMID: 15470217

This content was last updated in August 2018.