
### Correct Answer: D) Schedule follow-up within 1 week 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent heart failure readmission with early physician follow-up.

#### **Key Point:** Following heart failure hospitalization, early follow-up (within 1 week) should be scheduled to reinforce heart failure education, ensure proper medication use, evaluate volume status, and uptitrate or initiate medications as needed.

The most appropriate management is to schedule follow-up within 1 week of discharge. This patient was hospitalized for a heart failure exacerbation. Before discharge, it is important to initiate several strategies to prevent readmission. First, the reason for the heart failure exacerbation should be identified. Often, it is impossible to determine a cause; however, in a situation such as this one, addressing the reasons for the patient's nonadherence might prevent readmission. Second, patients should be receiving optimal doses of evidence-based medications before discharge. When medications, especially β-blockers, are restarted, it is important to begin at a low dose and slowly uptitrate over time. Third, patients should not be discharged until they have achieved euvolemia with diuresis, and their electrolyte levels and kidney function are optimized. Finally, appropriate follow-up should be scheduled. Studies have shown that patients seen within 1 week of a heart failure discharge have reduced admissions compared with those with later outpatient contact. The purpose of an early visit is to reinforce heart failure education, ensure proper medication use, evaluate volume status, and uptitrate or initiate medications as needed. This patient is euvolemic and is taking appropriate medications, and he should be scheduled for a follow-up visit within 1 week to prevent readmission.
Ivabradine reduces heart failure–associated hospitalizations in patients with chronic symptomatic heart failure with left ventricular ejection fraction less than or equal to 35% who are in sinus rhythm and taking guideline-directed medical therapy. This patient has atrial fibrillation, and ivabradine is not indicated.
ACE inhibitor and β-blocker therapies should be uptitrated to maximally tolerated doses before initiation of spironolactone. It is important to add an aldosterone antagonist later, but the dosage of the other agents should be maximized first.
There is no evidence of a survival advantage or reduction in stroke with cardioversion and maintenance of sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation, including those with heart failure. Therefore, the decision to institute a rate or rhythm control strategy largely depends on symptoms and patient preference. Patients who are asymptomatic can be managed with rate control only, with a resting heart rate goal of less than 110/min. Patients with tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy, heart failure, or left ventricular ejection fraction of less than 40% may require more stringent rate control (heart rate of 60/min to 80/min at rest).

**Bibliography**

Lee KK, Yang J, Hernandez AF, Steimle AE, Go AS. Post-discharge follow-up characteristics associated with 30-day readmission after heart failure hospitalization. Med Care. 2016;54:365-72. PMID: 26978568 doi:10.1097/MLR.0000000000000492

This content was last updated in October 2021.