
### Correct Answer: D) Genetic counseling and testing 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with genetic counseling and testing.

#### **Key Point:** Genetic counseling and testing are recommended for patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and for all first-degree family members of patients with HCM who have an identified genetic mutation, regardless of the presence or absence of symptoms.

The most appropriate management of the patient's 16-year-old daughter is genetic counseling and testing. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is an autosomal dominant heritable disorder characterized by the presence of increased left ventricular wall thickness in the absence of loading conditions or other underlying causes. In patients with HCM and a known pathogenic mutation, genetic counseling and testing is recommended for all first-degree family members, regardless of the presence or absence of symptoms. In this case, genetic testing of the index patient has revealed a mutation known to be associated with HCM. Mutation-negative family members do not require further evaluation (such as with electrocardiography or echocardiography) and have no increased risk for future development of HCM. Family members who test positive for an HCM-related genetic mutation should be further evaluated with physical examination, 12-lead electrocardiography, and echocardiography (or cardiac magnetic resonance imaging). After genetic and clinical testing, some patients will be identified as carriers of only the genetic mutation without left ventricular hypertrophy (termed genotype-positive but phenotype-negative). Genetic counseling is an important facet of care for patients with HCM, regardless of whether genetic testing is performed. Counseling enables informed decision making about the risks and benefits of testing and facilitates interpretation of the results.
The development of HCM is a dynamic process, and phenotypic expression may change as a patient ages. Because of this, if the daughter tests positive for the mutated gene but the electrocardiogram and echocardiogram are normal, she may still require repeated screening because of the possibility of phenotypic disease expression at any age. In that case, screening with physical examination, 12-lead electrocardiography, and echocardiography is recommended every 1 to 2 years in children and adolescents and every 3 to 5 years in adults as well as if there is a change in clinical status.
Mutation carriers with phenotypic expression of HCM should undergo further risk stratification for sudden cardiac death.

**Bibliography**

Ommen SR, Mital S, Burke MA, et al. 2020 AHA/ACC guideline for the diagnosis and treatment of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Joint Committee on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2020;142:e558-e631. PMID: 33215931 doi:10.1161/CIR.0000000000000937

This content was last updated in March 2021.