
### Correct Answer: D) Rheumatoid arthritis 

**Educational Objective:** Identify inflammatory disease as a risk factor for coronary artery disease.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with rheumatoid arthritis have a 1.5- to 2-fold elevated risk for coronary artery disease compared with the general population.

This patient's most significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the presence of rheumatoid arthritis. Patients with systemic inflammatory conditions, such as systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis, have an increased risk for CVD. Patients with rheumatoid arthritis have a 1.5- to 2-fold elevated risk for coronary artery disease compared with the general population. Most deaths in patients with SLE and nearly 40% of deaths in patients with rheumatoid arthritis are cardiovascular and, in particular, heart failure related. The risk for CVD increases with the duration of the underlying inflammatory condition. In patients with rheumatoid arthritis, the risk for CVD increases from two times to three times that of the general population after 10 years' duration of rheumatoid arthritis. The increased atherosclerotic burden is likely a result of both the inflammatory process of the systemic disease, including a prothrombotic state, and the presence of traditional cardiovascular risk factors. The risk for future atherosclerotic CVD is typically calculated by using the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association CVD risk calculator based on the Pooled Cohort Equations; however, this calculator underestimates risk in patients with nontraditional risk factors, as in this patient with rheumatoid arthritis.
Sedentary lifestyle, poor diet, and obesity contribute to increased cardiovascular risk and increased risk for diabetes mellitus. Moderate-intensity exercise for 30 minutes or longer on 5 to 7 days per week is recommended for nearly all persons and is being achieved by this patient.
Regular moderate alcohol consumption (one to two drinks daily for men, one drink daily for women) has been associated with a decreased incidence of CVD. Because of the known deleterious effects of drinking, the American Heart Association does not recommend that nondrinking patients consume moderate amounts of alcohol as a measure to decrease the risk for CVD. This patient has one drink per day, which is likely beneficial in reducing her CVD risk.
The prevalence of CVD and CVD risk factors in the United States varies by ethnicity. Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders have the highest rate of heart disease (19.1%), followed by American Indians and Alaska Natives (13.7%), non-Hispanic White persons (11.1%), Black persons (10.3%), Hispanic and Latino persons (7.8%), and Asian persons (6.0%). This patient's ethnicity places her in the lowest risk category for CVD.

**Bibliography**

Crowson CS, Liao KP, Davis JM 3rd, Solomon DH, Matteson EL, Knutson KL, et al. Rheumatoid arthritis and cardiovascular disease. Am Heart J. 2013;166:622-628.e1. PMID: 24093840 doi:10.1016/j.ahj.2013.07.010

This content was last updated in August 2018.