
### Correct Answer: A) Adenosine single-photon emission CT 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate for coronary artery disease in a patient with left bundle branch block on a baseline electrocardiogram.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with left bundle branch block, the preferred diagnostic test for coronary artery disease is a vasodilator stress test because myocardial perfusion imaging with exercise or dobutamine stress may result in a false-positive perfusion defect in the basilar septum.

Adenosine single-photon emission CT is the most appropriate next diagnostic test. This patient with several cardiovascular risk factors has exertional dyspnea, which may be an angina equivalent, and he should undergo stress testing to evaluate for coronary artery disease (CAD). Because his electrocardiogram (ECG) shows left bundle branch block, ST-segment changes with exercise cannot be used to evaluate for the presence of obstructive CAD. He must undergo stress testing with additional imaging, such as nuclear perfusion imaging or stress echocardiography. Exercise is typically the preferred mode of stress because of the additional functional information it provides. However, in the case of left bundle branch block, myocardial perfusion imaging with exercise or dobutamine stress may result in a false-positive perfusion defect in the basilar septum, and these stressors should be avoided. Instead, vasodilator stress testing should be used. Vasodilators, such as dipyridamole, regadenoson, and adenosine, produce hyperemia and a flow disparity between myocardium supplied by unobstructed vessels and myocardium supplied by the stenotic vessel (due to the inability of the distal vasculature to dilate).
Coronary artery calcium scoring, which quantifies the amount of calcium in the walls of the coronary arteries, would document the presence of atherosclerotic disease in this symptomatic patient with risk factors, but it would not determine whether there is obstructive CAD. Although the absence of any coronary artery calcification has been shown to have a high specificity for the absence of obstructive CAD, trials evaluating coronary artery calcium scoring have typically focused on primary prevention in asymptomatic patients.

**Bibliography**

Hendel RC, Berman DS, Di Carli MF, Heidenreich PA, Henkin RE, Pellikka PA, et al; American College of Cardiology Foundation Appropriate Use Criteria Task Force. ACCF/ASNC/ACR/AHA/ASE/SCCT/SCMR/SNM 2009 appropriate use criteria for cardiac radionuclide imaging: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation Appropriate Use Criteria Task Force, the American Society of Nuclear Cardiology, the American College of Radiology, the American Heart Association, the American Society of Echocardiography, the Society of Cardiovascular Computed Tomography, the Society for Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance, and the Society of Nuclear Medicine. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2009;53:2201-29. PMID: 19497454 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2009.02.013

This content was last updated in August 2018.