
### Correct Answer: D) Thyroid function studies 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with new-onset heart failure.

#### **Key Point:** The initial laboratory evaluation of patients with new-onset heart failure should include a B-type natriuretic peptide or N-terminal pro–B-type natriuretic peptide assay, complete blood count, serum electrolyte measurement, kidney function tests, liver chemistry tests, and serum thyroid-stimulating hormone measurement.

Thyroid studies should be performed next in this patient with new-onset heart failure. Once a diagnosis of heart failure is suspected, echocardiography should be performed to ascertain the left ventricular ejection fraction and to potentially determine the cause and chronicity of the patient's heart failure. A large, dilated left ventricle suggests a chronic process with less chance of recovery. The initial laboratory evaluation of patients with new-onset heart failure should include a B-type natriuretic peptide or N-terminal pro–B-type natriuretic peptide assay, complete blood count, serum electrolyte measurement, kidney function tests, liver chemistry tests, glucose and lipid levels, and serum thyroid-stimulating hormone measurement. Specifically, thyroid-stimulating hormone measurement is indicated to evaluate for occult hypo- or hyperthyroidism as a reversible cause of heart failure. In hyperthyroidism in particular, the predominant manifestation of thyroid dysfunction may be cardiac symptoms, which will abate when the hyperthyroidism is treated.
The classic presentation of viral myocarditis includes a viral prodrome with fever, myalgia, and upper respiratory tract symptoms, but a prodrome does not always occur. Patients present with dyspnea, chest pain, and arrhythmias. Electrocardiographic abnormalities are often observed. This patient's presentation is not typical for viral myocarditis, and viral studies are not indicated at this time.
Although coronary artery disease is the most common cause of heart failure, the investigation for coronary artery disease by stress testing or cardiac catheterization is not considered part of the routine evaluation of all patients with newly diagnosed heart failure, owing to expense and radiation exposure. Cardiac catheterization should be performed in patients presenting with angina or significant ischemia.
Hereditary hemochromatosis results from an autosomal recessive defect in the HFE gene, which leads to increased absorption of dietary iron. Patients may present with heart failure or arrhythmias. However, women do not develop overt iron overload until after menopause, and serum iron and ferritin studies are not indicated in this young woman.

**Bibliography**

Yancy CW, Jessup M, Bozkurt B, Butler J, Casey DE Jr, Drazner MH, et al; American College of Cardiology Foundation. 2013 ACCF/AHA guideline for the management of heart failure: a report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2013;62:e147-239. PMID: 23747642 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2013.05.019

This content was last updated in August 2018.