
### Correct Answer: A) Ibuprofen and colchicine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat effusive constrictive pericarditis.

#### **Key Point:** Effusive constrictive pericarditis is characterized by findings compatible with constrictive pericarditis and a concomitant effusion; NSAIDs and colchicine are first-line therapy, and close follow-up is recommended.

The most appropriate management is ibuprofen and colchicine. This patient has subacute signs of elevated right heart pressure. Pulsus paradoxus is present, and the echocardiogram demonstrates a moderately sized pericardial effusion with evidence of tamponade. The intrapericardial pressure is reduced to normal following drainage, whereas the intracardiac pressures remain elevated and equalized despite drainage, consistent with a diagnosis of effusive constrictive pericarditis. Effusive constrictive pericarditis may occur following idiopathic or infectious pericarditis or radiation therapy. CT or cardiac magnetic resonance imaging may demonstrate thickening of the pericardium, but calcification is usually absent. Fever, leukocytosis, elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and a pericardial friction rub may be present but are not universally so. Similar to acute pericarditis, NSAIDs and colchicine are first-line therapy. Close follow-up is recommended. Pericardiectomy may be required in patients with pericarditis that does not respond to medical therapy.
Isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol are initial therapy for tuberculous pericarditis; however, this patient does not have risk factors for tuberculosis, and his interferon-γ release assay result is negative. An elevated concentration of adenosine deaminase (>50 U/L) in the pericardial fluid is 100% sensitive for tuberculosis; a negative result rules out tuberculous involvement.
Pericardiectomy is recommended for patients with effusive constrictive pericarditis that does not respond to first-line therapy with NSAIDs and colchicine.
A pericardial subxiphoid window is indicated for patients with recurrent hemodynamically significant pericardial effusion despite medical therapy, as may occur with malignant effusions. This intervention would not provide adequate hemodynamic relief from constriction.

**Bibliography**

Syed FF, Ntsekhe M, Mayosi BM, Oh JK. Effusive-constrictive pericarditis. Heart Fail Rev. 2013;18:277-87. PMID: 22422296 doi:10.1007/s10741-012-9308-0

This content was last updated in August 2018.