
### Correct Answer: B) Ticagrelor 

**Educational Objective:** Manage dual antiplatelet therapy in a patient with non–ST-elevation myocardial infarction.

#### **Key Point:** Dual antiplatelet therapy, composed of aspirin and a P2Y12 inhibitor, is indicated in all patients following acute coronary syndrome for the prevention of vascular ischemic events.

This patient with a non–ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) should receive low-dose aspirin indefinitely and ticagrelor for 1 year. Dual antiplatelet therapy, composed of aspirin and a P2Y12 inhibitor, is indicated in all patients following acute coronary syndrome (ACS) for the prevention of vascular ischemic events. Aspirin should be continued indefinitely, and in patients with ACS treated with medical therapy alone, the optimal duration for P2Y12 inhibitor therapy (clopidogrel or ticagrelor) is at least 12 months. Although clopidogrel is an option in this patient, in the PLATO trial, the combination of low-dose aspirin and ticagrelor was superior to aspirin and clopidogrel in reducing the incidence of cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction, and stroke following ACS; the effect size was identical in medically treated patients and those who underwent early invasive treatment. The American College of Cardiology and American Heart Association prefer ticagrelor to clopidogrel (class IIa, level B recommendation) but caution that additional studies with focused objectives are needed.
Prasugrel, another P2Y12 inhibitor, is recommended for use only in patients with ACS who undergo percutaneous coronary intervention. Prasugrel is no more effective than clopidogrel in comparison studies of medically treated patients with ACS, and it carries a higher risk for bleeding than does clopidogrel.
Anticoagulation with warfarin is not routinely recommended following ACS unless there is another indication for its use, such as venous thromboembolic disease or atrial fibrillation.
Aspirin therapy alone would not offer adequate protection against cardiovascular events in this patient with NSTEMI.

**Bibliography**

Wallentin L, Becker RC, Budaj A, Cannon CP, Emanuelsson H, Held C, et al; PLATO Investigators. Ticagrelor versus clopidogrel in patients with acute coronary syndromes. N Engl J Med. 2009;361:1045-57. PMID: 19717846 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa0904327

This content was last updated in August 2018.