
### Correct Answer: B) Constrictive pericarditis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose constrictive pericarditis.

#### **Key Point:** Constrictive pericarditis is commonly characterized by symptoms of right-sided heart failure, low or normal B-type natriuretic peptide level, and the finding of pericardial thickening or calcification on imaging studies.

The most likely diagnosis in this patient with a history of chest radiotherapy is constrictive pericarditis. Constrictive pericarditis is characterized by pericardial thickening, fibrosis, and sometimes calcification that impair diastolic filling and limit total cardiac volume. Most cases are viral or idiopathic in origin; however, cardiac surgery, chest irradiation, autoimmune disease, and tuberculosis or other bacterial infections may be causes. Patients with constrictive pericarditis most commonly present with indolent progression of right-sided heart failure symptoms, including peripheral edema, ascites, and fatigue. In this patient, signs of venous congestion predominate, pericardial calcification is present on the chest radiograph, and the serum B-natriuretic peptide level is low and does not suggest greatly increased wall tension. The echocardiographic findings of respiratory variation in filling of right and left ventricles, ventricular septal shift during respiration, and dilation of the inferior vena cava are characteristic of constrictive pericarditis.
Cardiac amyloidosis and restrictive cardiomyopathy are not associated with pericardial calcification, and patients with these conditions more commonly present with moderate to severe pulmonary hypertension rather than the mild pulmonary hypertension seen in this patient. Respiratory variation in filling of the right and left ventricles and ventricular septal shift during respiration are characteristic of pericardial constraint rather than myocardial disease.
Patients with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction will present with edema, exertional dyspnea, and fatigue. Normal systolic contraction and abnormal diastolic relaxation are present on echocardiogram and result in restricted filling and high filling pressures. Patients with heart failure typically have an elevated B-type natriuretic peptide level, often greater than 600 pg/mL (600 ng/L), which is not found in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Jaworski C, Mariani JA, Wheeler G, Kaye DM. Cardiac complications of thoracic irradiation. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2013;61:2319-28. PMID: 23583253 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2013.01.090

This content was last updated in August 2018.