
### Correct Answer: C) 30-Day event-triggered loop recording 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose the cause of cryptogenic stroke.

#### **Key Point:** In the evaluation of cryptogenic stroke, noninvasive ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring for 30 days improves the detection of atrial fibrillation by fivefold compared with short-term ECG monitoring.

The most appropriate diagnostic testing option is 30-day event-triggered loop recording. This patient had a cryptogenic stroke given the absence of an apparent vascular, structural, or thromboembolic cause for her ischemic event. Among patients aged 55 years or older who have a cryptogenic ischemic neurologic event, such as a stroke or transient ischemic attack, occult intermittent atrial fibrillation is thought to be present in up to 25% of cases. These patients have a high risk for recurrent stroke, and efforts should be made to detect and treat atrial fibrillation for stroke prevention. Noninvasive ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring for 30 days improves the detection of atrial fibrillation by fivefold compared with short-term ECG monitoring. Patients who have premature atrial contractions and other findings of ectopy on short-term telemetry may be more likely to have paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. If noninvasive ambulatory ECG monitoring for 30 days is inconclusive, implantation of a cardiac monitor (loop recorder) is reasonable to optimize detection of silent atrial fibrillation. Patients who undergo longer-term ECG monitoring and are subsequently diagnosed with atrial fibrillation are more likely to receive appropriate secondary prevention stroke therapy with oral anticoagulants.
Antiphospholipid antibodies are acquired autoantibodies against phospholipids and phospholipid-binding proteins, such as cardiolipin and β2-glycoprotein I. In vitro, they can prolong clotting tests, but in vivo, they increase the risk for venous and arterial thrombosis and are associated with increased fetal loss. Testing for autoimmune and hypercoagulable disorders, such as antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, can be considered in young patients with otherwise unexplained stroke. Aside from stroke, this patient does not have any features concerning for a prothrombotic state or autoimmune disease. Therefore, testing for antiphospholipid antibodies is not appropriate.
Cardiac catheterization is not indicated in this patient. Because she had a normal transesophageal echocardiogram, there is no concern for a structural abnormality, such as an intracardiac shunt.
Short-term ECG monitoring (24-48 hours) with an ambulatory ECG monitor is inferior to extended ECG monitoring in the detection of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.

**Bibliography**

Gladstone DJ, Spring M, Dorian P, Panzov V, Thorpe KE, Hall J, et al; EMBRACE Investigators and Coordinators. Atrial fibrillation in patients with cryptogenic stroke. N Engl J Med. 2014;370:2467-77. PMID: 24963566 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1311376

This content was last updated in May 2019.