
### Correct Answer: B) Furosemide 

**Educational Objective:** Treat acute decompensated heart failure with intravenous furosemide.

#### **Key Point:** The mainstay of therapy for acute decompensated heart failure is intravenous diuretics.

The most appropriate treatment is administration of intravenous furosemide. This patient with a history of heart failure has signs and symptoms of an acute exacerbation, with volume overload and possibly reduced kidney function. The mainstay of therapy for acute heart failure is intravenous diuretics. The intravenous diuretic dose should equal or exceed the patient's oral dose for chronic heart failure. If the patient does not respond appropriately to that dose, rapid uptitration should be performed to assist in fluid removal. A recent study assessing different diuretic strategies (normal versus high dose, bolus versus continuous infusion) in patients with acute decompensated heart failure showed no difference in the outcomes of length of stay, readmission, or kidney function between groups. The patient's usual outpatient medications should be cautiously continued unless the patient is hypotensive or demonstrates signs of poor perfusion (worsening kidney or liver function, cool extremities), in which case dose reduction or discontinuation of both the ACE inhibitor and β-blocker should be considered.
Low-dose dopamine plus diuretic therapy was studied in the ROSE trial to determine whether dopamine improves diuresis and preserves kidney function in patients with acute heart failure. Compared with placebo, there was no difference in patient symptoms, urine output at 72 hours, or kidney function. Intravenous dopamine would not benefit this patient.
Intravenous inotropes, such as milrinone or dobutamine, should be considered in patients with signs of poor perfusion to improve cardiac function; however, this patient has no signs of hypoperfusion to suggest that this exacerbation is related to low cardiac output. Additionally, the PROMISE study showed no benefit of routine inotropic therapy in patients admitted with a heart failure exacerbation.
The vasodilator nesiritide has not been shown to improve diuresis, reduce length of stay, or prevent readmissions when used routinely for patients hospitalized for a heart failure exacerbation. Nitroglycerin or nitroprusside is occasionally used in patients who are hypertensive or who have high systemic vascular resistance, but usually only in a closely monitored setting, such as the coronary care unit.

**Bibliography**

Chen HH, Anstrom KJ, Givertz MM, Stevenson LW, Semigran MJ, Goldsmith SR, et al; NHLBI Heart Failure Clinical Research Network. Low-dose dopamine or low-dose nesiritide in acute heart failure with renal dysfunction: the ROSE acute heart failure randomized trial. JAMA. 2013;310:2533-43. PMID: 24247300 doi:10.1001/jama.2013.282190

This content was last updated in August 2018.