
### Correct Answer: D) Transthoracic echocardiography 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate suspected infective endocarditis with transthoracic echocardiography.

#### **Key Point:** Transthoracic echocardiography is the first-line imaging modality in patients suspected of having infective endocarditis to identify vegetations, determine the severity of valvular lesions, assess ventricular function, and detect complications.

The most appropriate next step in management is transthoracic echocardiography (TTE). This patient has symptoms and signs that are suspicious for infective endocarditis. According to the modified Duke criteria for infective endocarditis, he meets three minor criteria (injection drug use, fever with temperature >38 °C [100.4 °F], and vascular phenomena [in this case, erythematous nonpainful macular lesions known as Janeway lesions]), which indicates a possible diagnosis of infective endocarditis. A definitive diagnosis may be made with positive blood cultures and characteristic echocardiographic findings. TTE, as a first-line imaging modality, is indicated to identify vegetations or abscesses (diagnostic for infective endocarditis), determine the severity of valvular lesions, assess ventricular function, and detect complications. The sensitivity of TTE is approximately 75%; therefore, a negative imaging test result does not rule out the presence of infective endocarditis, and other imaging modalities should be used.
When the TTE findings are normal or inadequate in patients with a high pretest probability of infective endocarditis, or suspicion remains for undetected complications, further examination with TEE, cardiac CT, or MRI should be considered. The diagnostic sensitivity of TEE for infective endocarditis is approximately 90%. TEE is also superior to TTE in the detection of perivalvular abscesses, leaflet perforation, and other complications. Cardiac CT and chest MRI can be helpful in assessing for the presence of aortic root abscess when TEE is inconclusive, and CT is helpful to identify areas of peripheral embolization, such as in the kidney, spine, spleen, and brain. However, because of cost, accessibility, and invasiveness, TEE, chest MRI, and cardiac CT are not the best initial imaging choices.

**Bibliography**

Baddour LM, Wilson WR, Bayer AS, Fowler VG Jr, Tleyjeh IM, Rybak MJ, et al; American Heart Association Committee on Rheumatic Fever, Endocarditis, and Kawasaki Disease of the Council on Cardiovascular Disease in the Young, Council on Clinical Cardiology, Council on Cardiovascular Surgery and Anesthesia, and Stroke Council. Infective endocarditis in adults: diagnosis, antimicrobial therapy, and management of complications: a scientific statement for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association. Circulation. 2015;132:1435-86. PMID: 26373316 doi:10.1161/CIR.0000000000000296

This content was last updated in August 2018.