
### Correct Answer: C) Exercise stress testing 

**Educational Objective:** Manage non–ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome with an ischemia-guided approach.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with non–ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome, an ischemia-guided approach is appropriate for patients at low risk based on clinical risk score.

Exercise stress testing is the most appropriate management of this patient with a non–ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTE-ACS). Many treatment options are available for patients with a NSTE-ACS, and risk stratification tools, such as the TIMI or GRACE risk scores, can be used to aid in diagnostic and therapeutic decision making. An ischemia-guided approach is appropriate in low-risk patients (TIMI score <2 or GRACE score <109), whereas intermediate- and high-risk patients should be treated with an early invasive strategy. With an ischemia-guided approach, cardiac catheterization is reserved for patients at very high clinical risk based on risk score and patients with active or intermittent ischemia, including those with angina despite medical therapy or evidence of ischemia on stress testing. Given this patient's ST-segment depression on electrocardiogram, her TIMI risk score is 1, or low risk. Stress testing is indicated to guide further management.
Amlodipine may be used to treat patients suspected of having coronary vasospasm. Although this patient's symptoms could be caused by coronary vasospasm, it would be prudent to exclude ischemic heart disease before initiating this treatment.
The benefit of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, such as eptifibatide, appears to be isolated to certain high-risk patients and those undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention, although use of these drugs has been declining in those settings. There is no role for glycoprotein IIb/IIIa blockade in this patient with a low TIMI risk score and normal cardiac enzyme levels.
In patients with NSTE-ACS who have an elevated clinical risk score, significant ST-segment deviation, or elevated cardiac biomarkers, cardiac catheterization is usually performed within 24 hours of presentation. However, an early invasive strategy is not indicated in this patient given her low TIMI risk score.

**Bibliography**

Amsterdam EA, Wenger NK, Brindis RG, Casey DE Jr, Ganiats TG, Holmes DR Jr, et al; ACC/AHA Task Force Members. 2014 AHA/ACC guideline for the management of patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes: executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2014;130:2354-94. PMID: 25249586 doi:10.1161/CIR.0000000000000133

This content was last updated in August 2018.