
### Correct Answer: C) Initiate cilostazol 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with intermittent claudication with cilostazol.

#### **Key Point:** Smoking cessation, exercise training, and medical therapy (cilostazol) are recommended to improve limb symptoms in patients with peripheral artery disease and intermittent claudication.

The most appropriate next step in management is to initiate cilostazol. In patients with intermittent claudication and confirmed lower extremity peripheral artery disease (PAD) with an abnormal ankle-brachial index (≤0.9), American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines recommend exercise training and medical therapy (cilostazol) to improve limb symptoms. In a meta-analysis of 15 studies, cilostazol, a phosphodiesterase inhibitor with antiplatelet and vasodilator activity, was shown to improve symptoms and walking distance in patients with claudication when compared with placebo. As with other oral phosphodiesterase inhibitors (such as milrinone), the FDA has placed a black box warning on the use of cilostazol in patients with heart failure. This patient with established PAD (left ankle-brachial index of 0.67) has been enrolled in a supervised exercise program but has progressive symptoms, and the next most appropriate step in his management is to add cilostazol to his medication regimen.
PAD is considered a coronary artery disease risk equivalent, and patients with PAD should be treated with a high-intensity statin to prevent cardiovascular events. However, no evidence supports switching atorvastatin to rosuvastatin to reduce limb symptoms in these patients.
Guidelines recommend antiplatelet therapy for patients with PAD to reduce risk for myocardial infarction, stroke, or vascular death. However, in the absence of a specific indication, dual antiplatelet therapy has not been shown to have greater benefit than antiplatelet monotherapy in patients with PAD. Adding clopidogrel to aspirin would not relieve this patient's limb symptoms.
If this patient does not have improvement in his symptoms with cilostazol or cannot tolerate cilostazol therapy, he should be referred for invasive management (endovascular or surgical revascularization).

**Bibliography**

Gerhard-Herman MD, Gornik HL, Barrett C, Barshes NR, Corriere MA, Drachman DE, et al. 2016 AHA/ACC guideline on the management of patients with lower extremity peripheral artery disease: executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2017;69:1465-1508. PMID: 27851991 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2016.11.008

This content was last updated in August 2018.