
### Correct Answer: A) Adenosine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat supraventricular tachycardia.

#### **Key Point:** Hemodynamically stable patients with supraventricular tachycardia refractory to vagal maneuvers should be given adenosine.

The most appropriate next step in treatment is administration of adenosine. This patient, who is symptomatic but hemodynamically stable, has supraventricular tachycardia (SVT). Because supraventricular impulses below the atrioventricular (AV) node are conducted normally, the electrocardiogram in SVT usually reveals narrow-complex tachycardia; however, the QRS complexes can be wide (>120 ms) in the presence of bundle branch block, aberrancy, pacing, or anterograde accessory pathway conduction (antidromic tachycardia). This patient's rhythm is consistent with the presence of an accessory pathway (orthodromic atrioventricular reciprocating tachycardia [AVRT]). Orthodromic AVRT is the most common type of AVRT, accounting for more than 90% to 95% of cases. This type of AVRT has a narrow QRS complex owing to conduction over the AV node and the His-Purkinje system. Vagal maneuvers, such as the Valsalva maneuver (bearing down), are first-line therapy for termination of SVT. Adenosine can be used to interrupt AV conduction if vagal maneuvers are ineffective, such as in this patient. Adenosine may also help ascertain the nature of an arrhythmia. For example, when adenosine is administered to patients with atrial tachycardia and rapid 1:1 conduction, it demonstrates persistent rapid P waves despite AV block, which indicates the presence of an atrial tachycardia. Adenosine is metabolized by adenosine deaminase in the blood and has a very short half-life (6 seconds). It is contraindicated in preexcited atrial fibrillation with antidromic tachycardia, which presents with a QRS duration greater than 120 ms due to conduction down the accessory pathway.
Amiodarone is frequently used to treat patients with recurrent ventricular tachycardia or maintain sinus rhythm after conversion from atrial fibrillation. It is not a guideline-recommended agent for the treatment of SVT.
Ibutilide is an intravenous antiarrhythmic drug approved for pharmacologic cardioversion of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter of recent onset (within 7 days). Ibutilide is associated with an increased risk for polymorphic and monomorphic ventricular tachycardia, and several hours of electrocardiographic monitoring is required following administration.
Synchronized cardioversion should be reserved for patients who are hemodynamically unstable or those with continued SVT despite vagal maneuvers and adenosine.

**Bibliography**

Page RL, Joglar JA, Caldwell MA, Calkins H, Conti JB, Deal BJ, et al; Evidence Review Committee Chair. 2015 ACC/AHA/HRS guideline for the management of adult patients with supraventricular tachycardia: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. Circulation. 2016;133:e506-74. PMID: 26399663 doi:10.1161/CIR.0000000000000311

This content was last updated in August 2018.