
### Correct Answer: A) Cardiac amyloidosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose amyloid cardiomyopathy.

#### **Key Point:** Cardiac amyloidosis should be suspected in Black patients older than 50 years who have left ventricular wall thickening that is not explained by loading conditions (for example, hypertension or aortic stenosis) and present with heart failure or features of diastolic dysfunction.

The most likely diagnosis is cardiac amyloidosis. This patient has heart failure, elevated right heart pressure, and severe concentric wall thickening with preserved systolic function and severe pulmonary hypertension. The electrocardiogram paradoxically demonstrates low QRS voltage and a “pseudoinfarct” pattern: Q waves in the anteroseptal leads without regional wall motion abnormalities on echocardiogram. The most likely diagnosis is cardiac amyloidosis, likely related to a Val122lle mutation in transthyretin (TTR), which is present in 3% to 4% of the Black population. Cardiac amyloidosis should be suspected in Black patients older than 50 years who have left ventricular wall thickening that is not explained by loading conditions (for example, hypertension or aortic stenosis) and present with heart failure or features of diastolic dysfunction. Although a monoclonal gammopathy is present in immunoglobulin light-chain (AL) amyloidosis, this is not a feature of TTR amyloidosis. Diagnosis is established by histopathology; endomyocardial biopsy is more sensitive than abdominal fat pad biopsy.
Patients with constrictive pericarditis usually have normal or only mildly increased left ventricular wall thickness. Severe pulmonary hypertension is usually not present.
Amyloidosis may be mistaken for hypertensive heart disease; however, the left ventricular wall thickness in this patient is greater than expected for a patient without hypertensive heart disease. Additionally, electrocardiographic features of left ventricular hypertrophy (increased voltage) would be expected.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may be symmetric and nonobstructive and may demonstrate a restrictive filling pattern on echocardiogram. However, in most cases, the QRS voltage on electrocardiogram is congruent with the degree of hypertrophy.

**Bibliography**

Shah KB, Mankad AK, Castano A, Akinboboye OO, Duncan PB, Fergus IV, et al. Transthyretin cardiac amyloidosis in black Americans. Circ Heart Fail. 2016;9:e002558. PMID: 27188913 doi:10.1161/CIRCHEARTFAILURE.115.002558

This content was last updated in August 2018.