
### Correct Answer: D) Prosthetic joint infection 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose prosthetic joint infection.

#### **Key Point:** Both early and late prosthetic joint infections are typically characterized by pain, warmth, effusion, and fever; treatment involves prompt intravenous antibiotics and possible removal of the prosthesis.

Prosthetic joint infection is the most likely diagnosis. This patient has a prosthetic hip and is currently undergoing chemotherapy. Malignancy and immunosuppression are risk factors for prosthetic joint infection, and this patient also has a central venous catheter that increases his risk for bacteremia. The elevated leukocyte count and erythrocyte sedimentation rate, along with periprosthetic lucency on radiographs, are all suggestive of prosthetic joint infection. Prosthetic joint infections are divided into early onset (<3 months after placement), delayed (3 to 24 months postsurgery), and late onset (>24 months after placement). Early and delayed infections are usually related to surgical contamination at the time of the implantation, whereas late infections result from hematogenous seeding of the joint. Early and late prosthetic joint infections typically present with pain, warmth, effusion, and fever. Staphylococcus aureus is a leading causative agent in prosthetic joint infections; treatment involves prompt intravenous antibiotics and sometimes removal of the prosthesis.
Gout flare may also cause joint pain and loss of mobility, as well as fever, elevated leukocyte count, and inflammatory markers. However, this patient has no prior history of gout, and the hip is an uncommon place for a gout flare, especially an initial flare. Most initial gout flares affect the foot and/or ankle joints.
Hemarthrosis causes bleeding into a joint and is characterized by pain, swelling, warmth, and impaired mobility. It is diagnosed by synovial fluid aspiration. This patient does not have a history or findings suggestive of a bleeding diathesis to put him at risk for a traumatic hemarthrosis.
A patient with hip dislocation may present in a similar manner as one with prosthetic joint infection, namely pain and difficulty moving the joint; however, a dislocation would be evident on radiographs.

**Bibliography**

Osmon DR, Berbari EF, Berendt AR, Lew D, Zimmerli W, Steckelberg JM, et al; Infectious Diseases Society of America. Diagnosis and management of prosthetic joint infection: clinical practice guidelines by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2013;56:e1-e25. PMID: 23223583 doi:10.1093/cid/cis803

This content was last updated in August 2018.