
### Correct Answer: E) No further testing 

**Educational Objective:** Avoid serologic testing in patients with low pretest probability of connective tissue disease.

#### **Key Point:** The positive predictive value of antinuclear antibody (ANA) tests is determined by the pretest probability of disease; in the presence of 0 or 1 clinical manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), a positive ANA is associated with a very low posttest probability of SLE.

No further testing is currently needed in this 75-year-old man with no clinical findings suggestive of a connective tissue disease. His symptoms of hand joint pain are noninflammatory (pain with use, no warmth or swelling, and only minimal morning stiffness), and the distribution and findings are consistent with a diagnosis of osteoarthritis. Furthermore, the radiographs confirm these findings and do not show changes consistent with an inflammatory rheumatologic disorder (such as erosive joint disease seen in rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis, or tophi seen in gout). Therefore, no further testing is indicated.
Positive antinuclear antibodies (ANA) in a patient with nonspecific symptoms are difficult to interpret. As with all tests, the positive predictive value of ANA rests upon the pretest probability of disease. In the presence of 0 or 1 clinical manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), a positive ANA is associated with a very low posttest probability of SLE. The American College of Rheumatology's Choosing Wisely list currently recommends against testing ANA and ANA subserologies without a clinical suspicion of immune-mediated disease. The clinical suspicion for a connective tissue disorder such as SLE or rheumatoid arthritis is low in this patient, and ANA, rheumatoid factor, or anti–cyclic citrullinated peptide antibodies should not be tested.
Osteoarthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and gout can involve distal interphalangeal joints. However, this patient does not have the rash seen in psoriatic arthritis or symptoms of crystal-induced arthritis such as recurrent acute attacks and/or tophaceous deposits. Serum urate levels are helpful in a patient with symptoms suggestive of gout but are unlikely to helpful here.

**Bibliography**

Yazdany J, Schmajuk G, Robbins M, Daikh D, Beall A, Yelin E, et al; American College of Rheumatology Core Membership Group. Choosing wisely: the American College of Rheumatology's top 5 list of things physicians and patients should question. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken). 2013;65:329-39. PMID: 23436818 doi:10.1002/acr.21930

This content was last updated in August 2018.