
### Correct Answer: A) Antisynthetase syndrome 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose antisynthetase syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Antisynthetase syndrome is characterized by interstitial lung disease, myositis, Raynaud phenomenon, nonerosive inflammatory arthritis, constitutional findings such as low-grade fever, and mechanic's hands; anti-aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases antibodies, such as anti–Jo-1, are highly suggestive of the diagnosis.

The most likely diagnosis is antisynthetase syndrome, which is characterized by interstitial lung disease, myositis, Raynaud phenomenon, nonerosive inflammatory arthritis, constitutional findings such as low-grade fever, and mechanic's hands. Mechanic's hands is a dermatologic manifestation unique to antisynthetase syndrome and is characterized by hyperkeratotic skin along the ulnar aspect of the thumb and radial aspects of the digits, most commonly on the index and middle fingers, and involvement of the palms. Unlike eczema, there is no pruritus, vesicles, or hand dominance. Antisynthetase syndrome can occur in patients with dermatomyositis or polymyositis; about one third of patients with dermatomyositis belong to this subset characterized by a relatively abrupt onset and features. Antinuclear antibodies (ANA) are often positive in patients with antisynthetase syndrome, but anti-aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases antibodies, including the subset anti–Jo-1 antibodies, are more specific for the diagnosis.
In patients with Sjögren syndrome, constitutional findings and inflammatory arthritis are common, but Raynaud phenomenon is less so. Rash and mechanic's hands are not characteristics. Furthermore, dry eyes and dry mouth are the most common presenting symptoms, along with positive anti-Ro/SSA and anti-La/SSB antibodies.
Fever, Raynaud phenomenon, rash, inflammatory arthritis, and positive ANA are seen in systemic lupus erythematosus. However, an abrupt onset rarely occurs, mechanic's hands are not a feature, and anti–Jo-1 antibodies are not characteristic.
In patients with systemic sclerosis, fever and inflammatory arthritis are far less likely. Furthermore, although Raynaud phenomenon is very common in systemic sclerosis, the findings of either localized or diffuse skin tightening and thickening, including sclerodactyly, are absent in this patient. Mechanic's hands is not a feature of systemic sclerosis, and anti–Jo-1 antibodies are not characteristic.

**Bibliography**

Lega JC, Fabien N, Reynaud Q, Durieu I, Durupt S, Dutertre M, et al. The clinical phenotype associated with myositis-specific and associated autoantibodies: a meta-analysis revisiting the so-called antisynthetase syndrome. Autoimmun Rev. 2014;13:883-91. PMID: 24704867 doi:10.1016/j.autrev.2014.03.004

This content was last updated in August 2018.