
### Correct Answer: D) Smoking cessation 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent rheumatoid arthritis with smoking cessation.

#### **Key Point:** Smoking is a risk factor for the development of rheumatoid arthritis, especially in genetically susceptible individuals; all patients should be counseled to quit smoking.

The most preventive measure for this patient at risk for developing rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is smoking cessation. Smoking has been definitively identified as a risk factor for the development of RA, especially in genetically susceptible individuals. This woman has a strong family history of RA, including an identical twin sister who was recently diagnosed. Smoking increases the risk for RA 2 to 21 times depending on the presence of one or two copies of the shared epitope in the HLA makeup of the individual. Data suggest that if she stops smoking now, the risk for developing RA will decline each year that she does not smoke and will eventually be 30% lower than if she continued to smoke, but will not reach the level of someone who has never smoked for up to 20 years. There is additional evidence that if she stops smoking now and does develop RA, future mortality will be favorably affected, as will her disease activity. Smoking stimulates the production of enzymes that modify arginine to citrulline, and the modified proteins containing citrulline are targets for the immune system in susceptible individuals. This patient's hand symptoms seem more mechanical in nature (that is, end of the day) rather than inflammatory (prolonged morning stiffness).
High-fructose corn syrup has been identified as a possible risk factor for hyperuricemia and gout but not RA.
The use of hydroxychloroquine to prevent the development of RA in susceptible individuals is unproven. A clinical trial will soon evaluate the impact of hydroxychloroquine in patients positive for anti–cyclic citrullinated peptide antibodies, but it is premature to recommend this intervention without supporting evidence.
To date, probiotics have not been shown to modify risk for RA.

**Bibliography**

Di Giuseppe D, Orsini N, Alfredsson L, Askling J, Wolk A. Cigarette smoking and smoking cessation in relation to risk of rheumatoid arthritis in women. Arthritis Res Ther. 2013;15:R56. PMID: 23607815 doi:10.1186/ar4218

This content was last updated in August 2018.