
### Correct Answer: A) Acute lupus pneumonitis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose acute lupus pneumonitis.

#### **Key Point:** Lupus pneumonitis is a rare but severe presentation of systemic lupus erythematosus characterized by shortness of breath, hypoxia, and diffuse pulmonary infiltrates.

Acute lupus pneumonitis is the most likely diagnosis in this patient who has difficult-to-control systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) requiring aggressive therapy with prednisone and azathioprine. Lupus pneumonitis is a rare but severe presentation of SLE characterized by shortness of breath, hypoxia, and diffuse pulmonary infiltrates. Other major entities in the differential diagnosis include infection and diffuse alveolar hemorrhage. He has clear evidence of active SLE with polyarthritis, a high erythrocyte sedimentation rate, hypocomplementemia, and diffuse pulmonary infiltrates on radiologic studies, as well as lymphocytic predominance on bronchoalveolar lavage. These findings are very suggestive of lupus pneumonitis. It usually requires rapid and aggressive therapy with glucocorticoids and/or immunosuppressive agents.
Pulmonary hypertension does not present with diffuse infiltrates with ground glass opacities, as seen in this patient, and it cannot explain the bronchoalveolar lavage findings.
This patient has no fever or sputum production, and testing shows a normal leukocyte count and differential, normal C-reactive protein (CRP), and normal procalcitonin, making infection less likely. CRP is a marker of inflammation, and levels are significantly increased in bacterial pneumonia but frequently normal or only slightly elevated in SLE flares. Procalcitonin is produced by cells as a response to bacterial toxins, which result in serum procalcitonin elevations in bacterial infections.
The patient reports no hemoptysis, and lack of anemia and absence of erythrocytes on bronchoalveolar lavage exclude a diagnosis of diffuse alveolar hemorrhage.
Shrinking lung syndrome presents with chronic insidious shortness of breath with low lung volumes possibly related to diaphragmatic dysfunction. This patient's acute presentation and diffuse infiltrates on imaging is not consistent with this syndrome.

**Bibliography**

Mittoo S, Fell CD. Pulmonary manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus. Semin Respir Crit Care Med. 2014;35:249-54. PMID: 24668539 doi:10.1055/s-0034-1371537

This content was last updated in August 2018.