
### Correct Answer: D) Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose small intestinal bacterial overgrowth associated with systemic sclerosis.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with systemic sclerosis, gastrointestinal dysmotility can result in small intestinal bacterial overgrowth with resultant chronic diarrhea and malabsorption.

The most likely diagnosis is small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) associated with systemic sclerosis (SSc). More than 70% of patients with SSc have clinical gastrointestinal involvement. Gastrointestinal motility is compromised in 40% to 90% of patients with systemic sclerosis, especially those with diffuse disease. Because of the decrease in motility of the small bowel, bacterial overgrowth occurs and leads to the symptoms described in this patient history, including diarrhea, bloating, and pain, and can lead to malabsorption. Patients with SSc can also develop chronic pancreatic insufficiency and develop symptoms similar to SIBO, which must be considered in the differential diagnosis. Diagnosis of SIBO can be confirmed with glucose hydrogen breath testing or jejunal aspirate cultures. Treatment is with rotating antibiotics to try to reduce the overgrowth using agents with both aerobic and anaerobic coverage. Probiotics may have some benefit in such patients. It is important to screen such patients for nutritional deficiencies.
Carcinoid tumors are neuroendocrine tumors arising from the aerodigestive tract. Although most neuroendocrine tumors are hormonally nonfunctioning, a few produce serotonin and are responsible for the clinical manifestations of the carcinoid syndrome characterized by diarrhea and facial flushing. The diarrhea associated with the carcinoid syndrome is secretory, and symptoms are not confined to periods of food intake; nocturnal diarrhea is a clinical hallmark.
Chronic mesenteric ischemia is almost always associated with atherosclerotic disease. Symptoms consist of postprandial pain within 60 minutes after meals, which results in fear of eating and weight loss. It is not associated with postprandial bloating or explosive diarrhea.
Irritable bowel syndrome is a symptom complex characterized by abdominal pain and altered bowel habits. Diagnosis is established by fulfilling specific diagnostic criteria, including recurrent abdominal pain or discomfort at least 3 days per month in the last 3 months associated with two or more of the following: improvement with defecation; onset associated with a change in frequency of stool; and onset associated with a change in form (appearance) of stool. The presence of “red flags” such as anemia, fever, or weight loss strongly suggests the presence of an alternative diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Gyger G, Baron M. Systemic sclerosis: gastrointestinal disease and its management. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 2015;41:459-73. PMID: 26210129 doi:10.1016/j.rdc.2015.04.007

This content was last updated in March 2019.