
### Correct Answer: C) Serologic testing for Borrelia burgdorferi 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Lyme arthritis.

#### **Key Point:** Chronic monoarticular arthritis with a large effusion and stiffness but minimal pain is characteristic of Lyme arthritis; diagnosis is made by serologic testing (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay followed, if positive, by Western blot).

The most likely diagnosis is Lyme arthritis, which can be confirmed by serologic testing for detection of Borrelia burgdorferi–specific antibodies using a two-tiered approach: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) followed by Western blot. This patient is a park ranger in an area of emerging risk for Lyme disease; thus the diagnosis should be strongly suspected, especially given a monoarthritis of the knee that is not overly painful, which is typical for Lyme arthritis. Lyme arthritis is a late manifestation of Lyme disease; after the first month of infection, at least 5/10 bands should be present on Western blot testing for IgG antibodies to different B. burgdorferi proteins. It is not uncommon for patients to be unaware of or experience manifestations of early stages of disease, such as erythema migrans or constitutional symptoms.
Positive HLA-B27 haplotype may be seen in patients who have spondyloarthritis such as ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis, or reactive arthritis. Although these conditions commonly involve the peripheral joints, including the knees, the arthritis is usually painful and oligoarticular, not monoarticular. Additionally, inflammatory symptoms such as morning stiffness are prominent.
MRI of the knee can be useful to diagnose meniscal, ligamentous, and other soft-tissue abnormalities, as well as synovitis and effusion. It is particularly useful to localize knee pathology in the clinical setting of trauma, which has not occurred in this patient. Degenerative meniscal tears due to knee osteoarthritis may be seen on MRI, without a clinical history of trauma, but this patient does not have clinical or radiographic symptoms/signs of osteoarthritis.
In crystal arthropathies, metabolic abnormalities promote the formation and deposition of crystals that stimulate inflammation. Symptoms are typically of an acute painful arthritis, which is not present in this patient. Synovial fluid analysis for crystals is therefore not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Arvikar SL, Steere AC. Diagnosis and treatment of Lyme arthritis. Infect Dis Clin North Am. 2015;29:269-80. PMID: 25999223 doi:10.1016/j.idc.2015.02.004

This content was last updated in May 2019.