
### Correct Answer: B) IgG4-associated retroperitoneal fibrosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose IgG4-associated retroperitoneal fibrosis.

#### **Key Point:** IgG4-related disease is characterized by IgG4-producing plasma cell infiltration and tumefaction of the affected tissue with resultant organ enlargement, fibrosis, and dysfunction.

The most likely diagnosis is IgG4-associated retroperitoneal fibrosis. Most of the conditions that are under the banner of IgG4-related disease (IgG4-RD) are characterized by IgG4-producing plasma cell infiltration and tumefaction of the affected tissue with resultant organ enlargement, fibrosis, and dysfunction. Patients commonly present with a sentinel organ enlargement, but careful evaluation often reveals more extensive disease. Clinical signs include painless enlargement of lymph nodes or the thyroid, parotid, or submandibular glands; proptosis with orbital pseudo-tumor; back or chest pain from aortic involvement; and abdominal pain from pancreatic or biliary tree disease. This patient presents with a classic picture of retroperitoneal fibrosis with back pain and kidney failure from the periaortic mass that is large enough to encase the ureters resulting in obstructive uropathy and kidney injury. In a recent study, almost 60% of patients with retroperitoneal fibrosis were found to have IgG4-RD. Some patients present with an inflammatory aortitis as well. The patient's history of a fibrotic thyroid gland is also a feature of IgG4-RD.
Young men with germ cell tumor can present with bulky retroperitoneal or mediastinal lymphadenopathy. A testicular mass may not always be present. Similarly, involvement of retroperitoneal, mesenteric, and pelvic nodes is common in many types of non-Hodgkin lymphoma and can lead to urinary tract obstruction. It is uncommon for either of these conditions to present as a retroperitoneal mass in the absence of lymphadenopathy, and neither germ cell tumor nor lymphoma can account for the fibrous goiter.
Mesothelioma is a highly lethal disease that most commonly involves the pleura but also the peritoneum. The most frequently noted symptoms are abdominal pain, weight loss, and increase in abdominal girth due to ascites. Malignant peritoneal mesothelioma does not present as a retroperitoneal mass and does not cause urinary obstruction or a fibrous thyroid goiter.

**Bibliography**

Khosroshahi A, Carruthers MN, Stone JH, Shinagare S, Sainani N, Hasserjian RP, et al. Rethinking Ormond's disease: “idiopathic” retroperitoneal fibrosis in the era of IgG4-related disease. Medicine (Baltimore). 2013;92:82-91. PMID: 23429355 doi:10.1097/MD.0b013e318289610f

This content was last updated in August 2018.