
### Correct Answer: B) Limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis.

#### **Key Point:** Elevated antinuclear antibodies in a centromere pattern have a 90% specificity for systemic sclerosis, and in particular for limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis.

The most likely diagnosis is limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis (LcSSc). This patient has Raynaud phenomenon and abnormal nailfold capillary changes that suggest that the Raynaud disease is part of the features of an underlying connective tissue disease. Raynaud phenomenon (sequential white, blue, and red color changes in the digits precipitated by cold or stress) occurs in almost all patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc). Raynaud phenomenon in LcSSc is initially transient and reversible; later, structural changes develop within small blood vessels, resulting in permanently impaired flow that produces acrocyanosis, digital pitting, and/or ulcerations. Office-based examination of the nailfold capillaries of patients with SSc using a dermatoscope or ophthalmoscope reveals both capillary destruction and dilated capillary loops, which can distinguish SSc from primary Raynaud. Early changes in nailfold capillaries in the setting of a connective tissue disease include dilatation. In the scleroderma spectrum disorders, nailfolds can demonstrate capillary dropout and then more disorganized loops as the vasculopathy progresses. Elevated antinuclear antibodies in a centromere pattern occur in 20% to 40% of patients with SSc and have a 90% specificity for the disease, and in particular for LcSSc. The presence of anticentromere antibodies also increases the risk for developing pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). This patient will need to be monitored for progression, including PAH screening.
Anticentromere B antibodies are not seen in patients with dermatomyositis or mixed connective tissue disease, neither of which is the likely diagnosis in this patient. The pathognomonic cutaneous features of dermatomyositis are the heliotrope rash and Gottron papules, which are absent in this patient, as is another key feature, proximal muscle weakness.
Mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) is an overlap syndrome that includes features of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), SSc, and/or polymyositis in the presence of anti-U1-ribonucleoprotein antibodies. More than 50% of patients with MCTD have hand edema and synovitis at disease onset, which is not present in this patient.
Anticentromere B antibodies are rarely seen in SLE (4% or less), and this patient does not have any findings associated with this disorder. SLE should be considered in any patient who presents with unexplained multisystem disease. The most common early SLE manifestations include constitutional symptoms (fever, weight loss, or severe fatigue), arthralgia/arthritis, and skin disease, all of which are absent in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Mehra S, Walker J, Patterson K, Fritzler MJ. Autoantibodies in systemic sclerosis. Autoimmun Rev. 2013;12:340-54. PMID: 22743034 doi:10.1016/j.autrev.2012.05.011

This content was last updated in August 2018.