
### Correct Answer: C) Microscopic polyangiitis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose microscopic polyangiitis.

#### **Key Point:** The diagnostic gold standard of microscopic polyangiitis is a biopsy demonstrating nongranulomatous necrotizing pauci-immune vasculitis of small vessels or pauci-immune necrotizing crescentic glomerulonephritis in the kidney.

The most likely diagnosis is microscopic polyangiitis (MPA), which characteristically affects the lungs and kidneys, along with other organ systems. Diagnosis is suspected based upon typical clinical findings and positive ANCA. The diagnostic gold standard is a biopsy demonstrating nongranulomatous necrotizing pauci-immune vasculitis of small vessels or pauci-immune necrotizing crescentic glomerulonephritis in the kidney. This patient has pulmonary hemorrhage, pauci-immune small-vessel necrotizing vasculitis of the skin, proteinuria, inflammatory arthritis, and a positive p-ANCA (directed against myeloperoxidase)—all consistent with the diagnosis of MPA.
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) can cause the same lung, skin, joint, and kidney findings but is usually associated with a positive c-ANCA (directed against proteinase-3). Furthermore, GPA causes granulomatous inflammation; absence of granulomas distinguishes MPA from GPA.
IgA vasculitis (Henoch-Schönlein purpura) can affect lungs, skin, joints, and kidneys but it is an immune complex–mediated vasculitis with deposition of IgA containing immune complexes identified on biopsy, which is not present in this patient.
Rheumatoid vasculitis usually occurs in long-standing disease with positive rheumatoid factor and is immune complex mediated, none of which is present in this patient.
Thromboangiitis obliterans is a smoking-related vasculopathy affecting small to medium vessels with inflammation and thrombosis of vessels in upper and lower limbs, leading to reduced pulses and gangrenous ulcers. This diagnosis is unlikely because this patient no longer smokes, and has involvement of internal organs in addition to the legs.

**Bibliography**

Kallenberg CG. The diagnosis and classification of microscopic polyangiitis. J Autoimmun. 2014;48-49:90-3. PMID: 24461388 doi:10.1016/j.jaut.2014.01.023

This content was last updated in August 2018.