
### Correct Answer: B) Inclusion body myositis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose inclusion body myositis.

#### **Key Point:** Inclusion body myositis (IBM) is an inflammatory myopathy that can involve both the proximal and distal muscles with typically symmetric muscle distribution; its insidious onset and distal muscle involvement help to distinguish IBM from the other inflammatory myopathies.

The most likely diagnosis is inclusion body myositis (IBM), an inflammatory myopathy that can involve both the proximal and distal muscles; although typically symmetric, muscle distribution may be asymmetric. Sporadic IBM is the most common muscle disease in elderly populations, is more common in men than women, and typically develops after age 50 years and does not appear to affect individuals younger than 45 years old. Serum creatine kinase levels are typically less than 10 to 12 times the upper limit of normal. Its insidious onset and distal muscle involvement help to distinguish IBM from the other inflammatory myopathies. The absence of rash helps to exclude dermatomyositis. Electromyogram may show myopathic, neurogenic, or mixed changes with both short and long duration motor unit potentials and spontaneous activity. Diagnosis of IBM is confirmed by muscle biopsy showing muscle fibers containing multiple rimmed vacuoles. Distinguishing IBM from polymyositis is important because IBM is usually not treated with immunosuppressive therapy and has an overall poor response to treatment.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive, neurodegenerative disease that can have an insidious onset causing muscle weakness. Upper and lower motor neuron signs may be seen, including spasticity, abnormal gait, increased reflexes, and difficulty with coordination (including manipulation of small objects), tripping, and falling. Findings may initially be proximal or distal and asymmetric. ALS can be distinguished from IBM by the presence of fasciculations, and ALS does not raise serum creatine kinase levels.
Mitochondrial myopathy can present in childhood, adolescence, or young adulthood, and a family history of mitochondrial disease is often evident. When myopathy predominates, the patient generally presents with proximal muscle weakness. However, exercise intolerance, painful and sometimes severe muscle cramping, and eye symptoms such as ptosis and diplopia are common. Serum creatine kinase levels are usually within the normal range, but serum lactate levels may be elevated.
Polymyositis occurs more frequently in women than in men and has its age of onset before 50 more often than IBM. It generally presents with proximal, rather than distal, muscle weakness, and serum creatine kinase levels can be substantially higher than those seen in IBM, often greater than 10 to 50 times normal.

**Bibliography**

Needham M, Mastaglia FL. Sporadic inclusion body myositis: a review of recent clinical advances and current approaches to diagnosis and treatment. Clin Neurophysiol. 2016;127:1764-73. PMID: 26778717 doi: 10.1016/j.clinph.2015.12.011

This content was last updated in August 2018.