
### Correct Answer: A) Artificial tears and sugar-free candies 

**Educational Objective:** Treat sicca symptoms associated with Sjögren syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Initial management of Sjögren syndrome typically involves treatment of sicca symptoms by restoring moisture of the eyes and mouth.

Artificial tears and sugar-free candies are the most appropriate treatment at this time. This patient meets diagnostic criteria for Sjögren syndrome, with objective documentation of sicca in the presence of anti-Ro/SSA antibodies, antinuclear antibodies, and rheumatoid factor. Her dental carries and missing teeth are almost certainly due to her dry mouth, as evidenced by lack of salivary pooling below the tongue. She has arthralgia but no definite arthritis and, consistent with Sjögren joint involvement, no evidence of erosive joint disease on radiograph. The immediate treatment goal of sicca is the re-establishment of wetting of the eyes and mouth. For the eyes, topical application of artificial tears is usually the first strategy, potentially followed by addition of topical cyclosporine or lifitegrast if artificial tears prove insufficient. For oral dryness, sugar-free candy or chewing gum can help to increase saliva flow. Regular intake or rinsing with small sips of water is also recommended. Artificial saliva substitutes would be considered next if these approaches are insufficient.
Methotrexate is a nonbiologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drug occasionally used in Sjögren syndrome for arthritis. Because the patient's joint disease is unlikely to result in future bony damage and is responsive to ibuprofen, no additional arthritis management is needed at this time. There is no documented indication for methotrexate to treat sicca symptoms associated with Sjögren syndrome.
Pilocarpine is a muscarinic agonist that may stimulate saliva secretion. It is often poorly tolerated and would not be considered unless basic measures to treat oral dryness are insufficient.
Rituximab depletes B cells and has shown early promise for the management of Sjögren syndrome. Early studies suggest a possible benefit for treating sicca, but it is generally reserved for patients with systemic Sjögren complications or severe disease. At the present time, its use is not warranted in this patient.
Topical ophthalmic NSAID drops are absolutely contraindicated in Sjögren syndrome because they carry risk for severe corneal damage.

**Bibliography**

Baer AN, Walitt B. Sjögren Syndrome and Other Causes of Sicca in Older Adults. Clin Geriatr Med. 2017;33:87-103. PMID: 27886700 doi:10.1016/j.cger.2016.08.007

This content was last updated in August 2018.