
### Correct Answer: B) Disseminated gonococcal infection 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose disseminated gonococcal infection.

#### **Key Point:** The arthritis-dermatitis syndrome of disseminated gonococcal infection due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae is characterized by a triad of tenosynovitis, dermatitis, and polyarthralgia without frank arthritis; fever, chills, and malaise are common.

The most likely diagnosis is disseminated gonococcal infection (DGI). This patient has the arthritis-dermatitis syndrome of DGI due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae. This syndrome is characterized by a triad of tenosynovitis, dermatitis (usually painless pustular or vesiculopustular lesions), and polyarthralgia without frank arthritis. Fever, chills, and malaise are common. Inflammation of multiple tendons of the wrists, fingers, ankles, and toes distinguishes this syndrome from other forms of infectious arthritis. This presentation of DGI is associated with positive blood cultures and characteristic skin lesions. Diagnosis is established by blood and synovial fluid cultures, as well as pharynx, cervix, urethra, and rectum cultures, and/or nucleic acid amplification testing. Testing patients and their sexual partners for both gonorrhea and chlamydia is critical. Initial therapy for DGI is usually with ceftriaxone plus either azithromycin or doxycycline, and is rapidly effective.
Chikungunya virus is an alphavirus endemic to Asia and Africa, where it is transmitted by mosquito vectors; however, cases are increasingly seen in the United States secondary to travel to endemic countries. In addition to fever, maculopapular rash, and headache, patients may experience synovitis and tenosynovitis of the fingers and wrists that is usually symmetric and may resemble rheumatoid arthritis. The presence of a pustular rash and lack of travel to an endemic area makes this diagnosis unlikely.
Reactive arthritis is an acute, asymmetric arthritis that typically follows chlamydial urethritis or infectious gastroenteritis within 6 weeks. It mainly affects lower extremity joints. Enthesitis, particularly at the Achilles tendon, can also occur. Patients also often have conjunctivitis, circinate balanitis, or keratoderma blenorrhagicum. A pustular or vesiculopustular rash is not part of the reactive arthritis syndrome.
Acute sarcoid arthritis presents most often as part of Löfgren syndrome, which is characterized by the triad of hilar adenopathy, acute arthritis, and erythema nodosum. The acute polyarthritis is mostly oligoarticular, with symmetric involvement most commonly involving the ankles or other lower extremity joints. This is in contrast to DGI, which is usually asymmetric and involves the upper extremity joints. Sarcoidosis may involve the skin, but lesions may be papular, nodular, plaque-like, or indurated and deep.

**Bibliography**

García-Arias M, Balsa A, Mola EM. Septic arthritis. Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol. 2011;25:407-21. PMID: 22100289 doi:10.1016/j.berh.2011.02.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.