
### Correct Answer: D) Libman-Sacks endocarditis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Libman-Sacks endocarditis.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and positive antiphospholipid antibodies are at a high risk for developing valvular dysfunction/thickening, in some cases manifesting as Libman Sacks endocarditis.

Libman-Sacks endocarditis (nonbacterial thrombotic endocarditis) is the most likely cause of this patient's transient monocular blindness. She has an 8-year history of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and positive antiphospholipid antibodies (anticardiolipin antibodies plus lupus anticoagulant) with recurrent pregnancy loss. She meets the criteria for antiphospholipid syndrome. Patients who have SLE with positive antiphospholipid antibodies are at a high risk for developing valvular dysfunction/thickening, and in some cases manifesting as Libman-Sacks endocarditis. A recent study confirmed this significant association between valvular heart disease and antiphospholipid antibody positivity. It was also found that the highest risk was seen in double-positive antiphospholipid antibodies/lupus anticoagulant patients, as is the case in this patient. Libman-Sacks endocarditis may affect 11% or more of patients with SLE and has no relationship to disease activity. The condition is associated with large verrucous lesions near the edge of the valve, most often the mitral valve. Typical lesions consist of immune complexes, mononuclear cells, and fibrin and platelet thrombi. Libman-Sacks endocarditis is usually asymptomatic but can be responsible for numerous complications, including embolic stroke, or in this case a transient ischemic attack in the territory of the ophthalmic artery, peripheral emboli, and infective endocarditis.
Bacterial endocarditis can be a source of cardiogenic emboli, but 90% of patients with infective endocarditis have fever, and often other constitutional symptoms, which are absent in this patient.
Patients with SLE are prone to develop premature atherosclerosis (and can be a cause of stroke or transient ischemia attack), but this patient has no findings of atherosclerosis involving the carotid artery; furthermore, this diagnosis cannot account for the patient's heart murmur.
Transient monocular blindness can be a manifestation of giant cell arteritis, but this diagnosis is extremely rare in individuals less than 40 years old.

**Bibliography**

Vivero F, Gonzalez-Echavarri C, Ruiz-Estevez B, Maderuelo I, Ruiz-Irastorza G. Prevalence and predictors of valvular heart disease in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. Autoimmun Rev. 2016;15:1134-1140. PMID: 27639157 doi:10.1016/j.autrev.2016.09.007

This content was last updated in August 2018.