
### Correct Answer: C) Subcranial giant cell arteritis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose subcranial giant cell arteritis.

#### **Key Point:** Giant cell arteritis can affect the great vessels of the chest causing upper extremity claudication and/or aortitis; aortitis may lead to aortic root dilation, aortic regurgitation, and heart failure.

The most likely diagnosis is giant cell arteritis (GCA), a large-vessel vasculitis that most commonly affects vessels in the head and neck area (cranial GCA), resulting in jaw claudication, headaches (from involvement of the superficial temporal artery), and visual changes (due to involvement of ophthalmic arteries). Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR), although not a vasculitis, is an inflammatory disorder that frequently accompanies GCA. Symptoms of PMR (shoulder and hip girdle pain and stiffness) may precede, accompany, or follow the diagnosis of GCA, and may be the only symptom of silent or subclinical GCA. As in this case, GCA less commonly affects the great vessels of the chest (subcranial GCA), causing upper extremity claudication and/or aortitis, as seen in this patient. Aortitis may lead to aortic root dilation, aortic regurgitation, and heart failure, as seen in this patient; this manifestation is usually a late feature of GCA.
Kawasaki disease initially presents in childhood, affects medium-sized (coronary) vessels, and can lead to heart failure due to myocardial damage years after the inflammation from vasculitis has resolved. Kawasaki disease does not have an onset in late adulthood.
Polyarteritis nodosa is a medium-vessel vasculitis that rarely affects the heart, and when it does, involves coronary vessels, not large vessels; this patient has a large-vessel vasculitis affecting the aorta.
In Takayasu arteritis (TA), the affected arteries are primarily the aorta (ascending, descending thoracic, and abdominal aorta) and its major branches. In contrast to GCA, TA is rare (2 cases/million patient-years) and mainly affects young women (9:1 ratio) with a typical age at onset between 15 and 25 years. Histologically, the pathophysiologic processes of TA and GCA are similar, with infiltration of T cells, macrophages, and giant cells in the vessel wall. This patient's age effectively excludes TA as the cause of her symptoms.

**Bibliography**

González-Gay MA, Pina T. Giant cell arteritis and polymyalgia rheumatica: an update. Curr Rheumatol Rep. 2015;17:6. PMID: 25618572 doi:10.1007/s11926-014-0480-1

This content was last updated in August 2018.