
### Correct Answer: D) Rituximab 

**Educational Objective:** Treat relapsed granulomatosis with polyangiitis.

#### **Key Point:** Rituximab is appropriate treatment for patients who experience a relapse of granulomatosis with polyangiitis.

Rituximab is the most appropriate treatment for this patient who has experienced a relapse of granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA), manifesting with pulmonary inflammation and nodules despite maintenance treatment with azathioprine. GPA is a rare systemic autoimmune disease of unknown cause that leads to vasculitis and granulomatosis of small- to medium-sized blood vessels. Without treatment, most patients die within 1 year. With treatment, most patients achieve remission within 6 months. Relapses of GPA are common, occurring in more than 50% of patients within 5 years, and may occur in different organs from the initial presentation. Both rituximab and cyclophosphamide are efficacious for initial induction therapy in patients with severe GPA. The choice of which therapy to use depends upon the individual patient presentation and comorbid conditions.
The RAVE (Rituximab versus Cyclophosphamide for ANCA-Associated Vasculitis) trial demonstrated that rituximab is superior to cyclophosphamide in the subgroup of patients with relapse. In this study, remission without prednisone at 6 months was observed in 67% of rituximab-treated patients compared with 42% of cyclophosphamide patients (P = 0.01; NNT = 4). Rituximab was also as effective as cyclophosphamide in the treatment of patients with kidney disease or alveolar hemorrhage. There were no significant differences between the treatment groups with respect to rates of adverse events.
In trials of etanercept treatment for GPA, patients manifested an increased risk for the development of solid malignancies, especially if they had previously been treated with cytotoxic drugs. Therefore, etanercept is not considered first-line treatment for GPA.
Methotrexate is inadequate as induction therapy for severe disease; it can be used alone either as maintenance therapy after induction, or for mild and limited disease.

**Bibliography**

Comarmond C, Cacoub P. Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener): clinical aspects and treatment. Autoimmun Rev. 2014;13:1121-5. PMID: 25149391 doi:10.1016/j.autrev.2014.08.017

This content was last updated in August 2018.