
### Correct Answer: B) Stop febuxostat; begin pegloticase infusions 

**Educational Objective:** Treat severe tophaceous gout.

#### **Key Point:** Pegloticase is strongly recommended for patients with severe recurrent and/or tophaceous gout that is intolerant or resistant to standard therapies.

In addition to stopping febuxostat, the most appropriate treatment is pegloticase infusions. This patient has severe recurrent and tophaceous gout that has been resistant to standard therapies, including febuxostat. Pegloticase is an intravenously administered porcine-derived uricase (infused every 2 weeks), which reduces serum urate to nearly zero within hours of administration. If anti-drug antibodies do not form, tophi may resolve over the course of months. Other urate-lowering therapies should be discontinued with initiation of pegloticase because they can mask the development of antibodies that manifest as rising serum urate levels. Patients starting pegloticase should be placed on prophylaxis to prevent acute gout attacks; colchicine, prednisone, or NSAIDs are appropriate. In this case, glucocorticoids and NSAIDs should be avoided because of the concomitant type 2 diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney disease; therefore, low-dose colchicine is the appropriate prophylactic agent. In February 2019, the FDA mandated a boxed warning for febuxostat regarding the increased risk for cardiovascular death and all-cause mortality with the drug. The FDA has also limited the approved use of febuxostat for patients who are unresponsive to or cannot tolerate allopurinol.
It is important to note that two recently published guidelines differ regarding the role of pharmacologic urate-lowering therapy in patients with gout. The  notes a lack of evidence supporting a specific target level for urate lowering; this guideline stresses discussing the risks and benefits of urate-lowering therapy with patients and suggests a “treat to avoid symptoms” approach without specifically considering the serum urate levels. The 2020 American College of Rheumatology (ACR) guideline for the management of gout strongly recommends continuing urate-lowering therapy with xanthine oxidase inhibitors (allopurinol, febuxostat) to achieve and maintain a serum urate target less than 6 mg/dL (0.37 mmol/L). The guideline also strongly recommends switching from xanthine oxidase inhibitors to pegloticase in patients with gout who have not achieved the serum urate target and who have frequent gout flares or nonresolving tophi. The patient's serum urate level is 6.3 mg/dL (0.37 mmol/L) on febuxostat therapy, and she continues to have symptoms and tophi; therefore, escalation of treatment is appropriate according to both the ACP and ACR guidelines.
Probenecid is not appropriate for those with an estimated glomerular filtration rate of less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 or with a history of kidney stones; this patient has both.
Losartan has a modest uricosuric effect, but not significant enough that it would be recommended in a patient with severe tophaceous gout, especially one who remains symptomatic with an elevated serum urate level despite febuxostat therapy.

**Bibliography**

FitzGerald JD, Dalbeth N, Mikuls T, et al. 2020 American College of Rheumatology guideline for the management of gout. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken). 2020;72:744-760. PMID: 32391934 doi:10.1002/acr.24180

This content was last updated in October 2020.