
### Correct Answer: B) Discontinue pregabalin 

**Educational Objective:** Manage disequilibrium caused by pregabalin.

#### **Key Point:** Use of pregabalin is often limited by side effects, including weight gain, peripheral edema, lethargy, and dizziness; discontinuation may be needed to manage the side effects.

The most appropriate next step in management is to discontinue pregabalin. Disequilibrium is an unsteadiness, or sense of imbalance, with standing or walking. Patients may experience disequilibrium as a side effect of medication use. This patient has fibromyalgia, which is characterized by widespread pain, fatigue, disturbed sleep, and cognitive dysfunction. Education, exercise, and psychosocial support are cornerstones of treatment, although pharmacotherapy is often warranted. Pregabalin can be effective for patients with fibromyalgia, but use is often limited by side effects, including weight gain, peripheral edema, lethargy, and especially dizziness (31% of all patients in trials versus 9% on placebo). The patient has fallen several times; therefore, it is imperative to remove any possible offending agent, and pregabalin is the most likely culprit among her medications. Once the troubling side effects resolve off medication, restarting at a lower dose could be considered.
Duloxetine can cause dizziness but not nearly as frequently as pregabalin (10% of patients in controlled trials versus 6% on placebo). Because pregabalin is the more likely cause, it should be stopped first; if possible, only one variable should be changed at a time.
There is no need to measure methylmalonic acid and homocysteine levels in this patient. Although vitamin B12 deficiency can cause peripheral neuropathy, the normal B12 level and neurologic examination make this a very unlikely diagnosis.
Given the high likelihood that pregabalin is causing the dizziness as well as the normal neurologic examination, MRI of the brain is not indicated at this time. It would be most useful if a space-occupying lesion were suspected, but there are no neurologic symptoms or signs referable to the central nervous system. If the patient were to develop neurologic signs or if symptoms did not improve with discontinuation of the pregabalin, this decision would need to be reevaluated.
Vestibular rehabilitation may be appropriate as a means of adapting to long-lasting or permanent vestibular damage. It includes exercises and balance training intended to stabilize gait and decrease symptoms and falls. It is not an appropriate first step in this case, however, because drug discontinuation alone is likely to result in improvement of her symptoms.

**Bibliography**

Derry S, Cording M, Wiffen PJ, Law S, Phillips T, Moore RA. Pregabalin for pain in fibromyalgia in adults. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016;9:CD011790. PMID: 27684492

This content was last updated in August 2018.