
### Correct Answer: A) Prednisone, 10 mg/d 

**Educational Objective:** Treat relapsed polymyalgia rheumatica.

#### **Key Point:** A relapse of polymyalgia rheumatica should be treated with an increase in prednisone to the last pre-relapse dose at which the patient was doing well, followed by a gradual reduction within 4 to 8 weeks back to the relapse dose.

Prednisone, 10 mg/d, is the most appropriate treatment for this patient with a relapse of polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) after her prednisone dose was weaned to 8 mg/d. Patients with PMR experience symmetric pain and stiffness in the shoulder, neck, and hip regions, typically without synovitis. PMR is a clinical diagnosis based on the characteristic symptoms in a patient older than 50 years and is supported by an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate and/or C-reactive protein. Recent guidelines for the management of PMR (developed by a collaborative effort of the American College of Rheumatology and the European League Against Rheumatism) recommend increasing the prednisone to the last pre-relapse dose at which the patient was doing well, followed by a gradual reduction within 4 to 8 weeks back to the relapse dose. This patient was asymptomatic on 10 mg/d, prior to reducing to her current relapse dose; therefore, an increase to 10 mg/d is appropriate. After the flare-up subsides, a slow taper of 1 mg every 4 weeks may be better tolerated then larger increments over 2- to 4-week periods.
Prednisone, 30 mg/d, would also help treat the flare-up, but this higher dose is probably unnecessary, and a lower dose should be attempted first.
Prednisone, 60 mg/d, is not a typical dose used for PMR, and in the absence of concomitant giant cell arteritis is not needed to treat a PMR flare-up.
Methotrexate can be added as a glucocorticoid-sparing agent for patients who cannot be successfully weaned off prednisone or who are experiencing significant glucocorticoid toxicity; this patient has only had one flare-up and may do well after a modest increase followed by a more gradual taper of prednisone, making the addition of methotrexate premature at this time.

**Bibliography**

Dejaco C, Singh YP, Perel P, Hutchings A, Camellino D, Mackie S, et al; European League Against Rheumatism. 2015 Recommendations for the management of polymyalgia rheumatica: a European League Against Rheumatism/American College of Rheumatology collaborative initiative. Ann Rheum Dis. 2015;74:1799-807. PMID: 26359488 doi:10.1136/annrheumdis-2015-207492

This content was last updated in August 2018.