
### Correct Answer: B) Cyclophosphamide 

**Educational Objective:** Treat primary angiitis of the central nervous system.

#### **Key Point:** Cyclophosphamide with high-dose glucocorticoids is appropriate treatment for primary angiitis of the central nervous system.

In addition to high-dose glucocorticoids, cyclophosphamide is the most appropriate treatment for this patient who has primary angiitis of the central nervous system. Patients typically present with gradual progressive neurologic symptoms such as headaches, cognitive impairment, and other neurologic deficits such as strokes. Laboratory studies, including erythrocyte sedimentation rate, are typically normal, but 90% of patients have abnormal cerebrospinal fluid with lymphocytic pleocytosis and elevated total protein. MRI, MR angiogram, or CT angiogram often demonstrates nonspecific findings; cerebral angiogram sometimes reveals beading, or alternating stenosis and dilation of vessels consistent with vasculitis. Brain biopsy is falsely negative in 50% of patients due to patchy distribution of abnormalities, but when positive will show granulomatous vasculitis. Due to the rarity of this vasculitis, treatment is based on expert opinion and retrospective studies. High-dose glucocorticoids and cyclophosphamide have been reported to be effective in inducing remission and, given the severity of this patient's presentation, is the most appropriate choice. Glucocorticoids could be weaned over 3 to 6 months or longer, depending upon patient response to treatment. Cyclophosphamide could be discontinued after 3 to 6 months, and a maintenance drug such as azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil could be started.
Anecdotal reports indicate that rituximab and tumor necrosis factor α inhibitors (such as adalimumab) may be effective; however, until more reports and studies are available, these would not be the first choice of treatment.
Methotrexate is not indicated for this patient because it does not penetrate the central nervous system well and would not be effective.

**Bibliography**

Rodriguez-Pla A, Monach PA. Primary angiitis of the central nervous system in adults and children. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 2015;41:47-62, viii. PMID: 25399939 doi:10.1016/j.rdc.2014.09.004

This content was last updated in August 2018.