
### Correct Answer: C) Parvovirus B19 testing 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose parvovirus B19.

#### **Key Point:** Parvovirus B19 infection should be suspected in patients with an acute onset of small-joint symmetric polyarthritis following a febrile illness with rash, who have exposure to children.

Parvovirus B19 testing will most likely confirm the diagnosis. Parvovirus B19, which causes the childhood condition known as fifth disease (erythema infectiosum), is a DNA virus with a tropism for erythrocyte precursors. Adults usually contract the virus from children; individuals at risk include daycare or school workers and parents. Infection may be asymptomatic or produce a flu-like illness. In adults, the rash may be absent or atypical. The arthritis begins acutely, with symmetric pain and stiffness of the small joints of the hands and feet, as well as wrists and knees, in a pattern often mimicking rheumatoid arthritis (RA). This arthritis typically lasts for several weeks before resolving. Circulating anti-parvovirus IgM antibodies provide evidence of active disease; IgG antibodies indicate prior infection and are found in many healthy persons. Treatment is supportive.
Antinuclear antibody testing may be appropriate if systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) or other related autoimmune diseases are suspected. Although some features of parvovirus B19 may overlap with those of SLE (fever, arthritis, cytopenias), other features of SLE (rashes, other mucocutaneous abnormalities) are notably absent in this patient.
Although HIV testing may be part of the complete workup for this patient's arthritis, the patient's exposure to children and the resolved antecedent brief febrile illness with an evanescent rash make parvovirus B19 much more likely.
Only 50% of patients with RA have detectable rheumatoid factor at onset, increasing to 60% to 80% in established disease. Conversely, up to 20% of patients with RA lack rheumatoid factor. Although rheumatoid factor testing may be part of this patient's evaluation because she has findings resembling RA, diagnosis requires that symptoms be chronic, usually for at least 6 weeks. Additionally, RA usually does not follow a viral infection.

**Bibliography**

Young NS, Brown KE. Parvovirus B19. N Engl J Med. 2004;350:586-97. PMID: 14762186

This content was last updated in August 2018.