
### Correct Answer: A) Anti–cyclic citrullinated peptide antibodies 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose rheumatoid arthritis with anti–cyclic citrullinated peptide antibodies.

#### **Key Point:** Anti–cyclic citrullinated antibody testing is beneficial in diagnosing rheumatoid arthritis.

Anti–cyclic citrullinated peptide (CCP) antibody testing is appropriate. This patient has a symmetric inflammatory polyarthritis involving the small joints of the hands and feet, which is highly suggestive of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Laboratory studies, including rheumatoid factor, anti-CCP antibodies, and inflammatory markers, can assist in confirming the diagnosis, with anti-CCP antibodies the most helpful. Anti-CCP antibodies have a sensitivity of 70%, similar to that of rheumatoid factor, but they have a much higher specificity than rheumatoid factor (95%) and are more predictive than rheumatoid factor for erosive disease, making this test very useful to diagnose RA. The dual presence of rheumatoid factor and anti-CCP antibodies makes a diagnosis of RA substantially more likely.
Spondyloarthritis disorders share an overlapping set of features, including inflammation of the axial skeleton, tendons, and entheses; tendon and enthesis calcification; and an association with HLA-B27 antigen. HLA-B27 testing can define a probability for spondyloarthritis but cannot independently confirm or exclude any specific diagnosis. This patient does not have any features besides peripheral arthritis to suggest spondyloarthritis.
Parvovirus can cause polyarthralgia/arthritis but is generally transient, lasting 3 weeks or less, and is often accompanied by a net-like rash on the extremities and low-grade fever. IgM serology would indicate a recent infection and has to be checked within 8 to 10 weeks of infection because it declines thereafter as IgG rises. An elevated IgG antibody would simply indicate a past infection with the virus. This patient's persistent joint findings lasting 8 weeks argue against parvovirus infection.
Serum urate is useful in the diagnosis of gout in patients with typical findings. Although chronic recurrent gout can be polyarticular, this patient does not have features that suggest underlying gout such as palpable tophaceous depositions, and gout is rare in women before menopause.
Hypothyroidism can cause fatigue and uncommonly cause arthralgia and joint stiffness but is not associated with the active synovitis seen in this patient. Therefore, measuring thyroid-stimulating hormone would not be indicated.

**Bibliography**

Chang PY, Yang CT, Cheng CH, Yu KH. Diagnostic performance of anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide and rheumatoid factor in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Int J Rheum Dis. 2016;19:880-6. PMID: 25940989

This content was last updated in August 2018.