
### Correct Answer: A) Duloxetine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat osteoarthritis with duloxetine.

#### **Key Point:** Duloxetine is FDA approved for chronic musculoskeletal pain and has been shown to have analgesic efficacy for chronic low back pain and knee osteoarthritis pain.

Duloxetine, a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor with central nervous system effects, is a good treatment option for this patient with generalized osteoarthritis (OA). Duloxetine is FDA approved for chronic musculoskeletal pain and has been shown to have analgesic efficacy for chronic low back pain and knee OA pain, implicating the role of central sensitization in OA pain modulation. This patient has already tried multiple nonpharmacologic measures, as well as intra-articular glucocorticoid and hyaluronic injections, all with insufficient symptomatic relief. Duloxetine is a reasonable choice given the patient's comorbidities and generalized musculoskeletal pain.
Gabapentin and pregabalin are more effective than placebo in the treatment of neuropathic pain conditions such as postherpetic neuralgia and diabetic neuropathy. These drugs are expensive and both are associated with dose-dependent dizziness and sedation. There is no evidence of their effectiveness specifically for chronic OA pain.
NSAIDs inhibit cyclooxygenase (COX) enzymes, blocking the generation of the lipid prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). PGE2 stimulates inflammation, vasodilation, smooth muscle contraction, pain, and fever. However, PGE2 also maintains gastric mucosa and promotes kidney sodium excretion and glomerular filtration. Other COX products include thromboxane A2, a prothrombotic regulator of platelets, and prostacyclin, an antithrombotic and vasodilatory lipid. Because NSAIDs inhibit all of these, the consequences of COX inhibition are complex and accompanied by multiple potential side effects. Side-effect risk is increased in older patients and those with preexisting comorbidities. Therefore, ibuprofen is not an advisable choice in an elderly patient with peptic ulcer disease, hypertension, and heart disease.
Topical capsaicin may benefit localized OA (for example, knee only) but is impractical in this case given the multiple areas of involvement. Furthermore, duloxetine is more likely to be efficacious given how many treatments this patient has tried and failed.

**Bibliography**

McAlindon TE, Bannuru RR, Sullivan MC, Arden NK, Berenbaum F, Bierma-Zeinstra SM, et al. OARSI guidelines for the non-surgical management of knee osteoarthritis. Osteoarthritis Cartilage. 2014;22:363-88. PMID: 24462672 doi:10.1016/j.joca.2014.01.003

This content was last updated in August 2018.