
### Correct Answer: A) Adult-onset Still disease 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose adult-onset Still disease.

#### **Key Point:** Adult-onset Still disease is characterized by spiking fever, an evanescent salmon-colored rash on the trunk and extremities that occurs in conjunction with fever, arthritis, lymphadenopathy, and leukocytosis; an extremely high serum ferritin level is characteristic.

The most likely diagnosis is adult-onset Still disease (AOSD), a systemic inflammatory disease of multiple organ systems. This patient displays the typical signs and symptoms of AOSD, with spiking fevers, pharyngitis, an evanescent salmon pink rash that occurs in conjunction with fever, adenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly with elevated liver enzymes, leukocytosis with neutrophil predominance, inflammatory arthritis, and myalgia. Patients with AOSD can also develop other manifestations such as serositis. Extremely high serum ferritin levels are a typical feature. AOSD may also be seen during pregnancy or in the postpartum period. The diagnosis is clinical, and other entities such as infection and malignancy must be excluded.
Cryoglobulinemic vasculitis can cause arthritis, rash, and fever and may be associated with liver abnormalities, particularly if it is related to hepatitis C virus. However, the rash of cryoglobulinemia is related to small-vessel vasculitis characterized by palpable purpura of the lower extremities. Other organs characteristically involved include peripheral nerves and the kidneys (glomerulonephritis). Cryoglobulinemia cannot explain the elevated serum ferritin level.
Lymphoma can cause arthralgia, fever, rash, lymphadenopathy, and organomegaly. Lymphoma would not explain the patient's pleural friction rub, arthritis, or elevated serum ferritin level.
Microscopic polyangiitis is a form of ANCA-associated vasculitis in which patients can develop fever, rash, arthritis, and pulmonary disease, but this patient's rash (pink, evanescent, involving the trunk) is not typical for vasculitis (palpable purpura, urticaria, livedo reticularis, nodules). In addition, kidney involvement is nearly ubiquitous in microscopic polyangiitis, and the normal urinalysis argues against this diagnosis.
Similarly, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) can cause the same symptoms, but the rash associated with SLE is unlike that of AOSD. The malar rash of acute cutaneous lupus erythematosus consists of bright erythematous patches over both cheeks and the nasal bridge, almost always sparing the nasolabial folds; the rash is unrelated to fever. In addition, SLE cannot explain the elevated ferritin level.

**Bibliography**

Gerfaud-Valentin M, Jamilloux Y, Iwaz J, Sève P. Adult-onset Still's disease. Autoimmun Rev. 2014;13:708-22. PMID: 24657513 doi:10.1016/j.autrev.2014.01.058

This content was last updated in August 2018.