
### Correct Answer: D) Synovial biopsy 

**Educational Objective:** Choose the most appropriate test to diagnose tuberculosis as the cause of chronic monoarthritis.

#### **Key Point:** Synovial fluid analysis can confirm inflammation but may be inadequate for diagnosis of a chronic inflammatory monoarthritis; synovial biopsy may be required.

The most appropriate test to perform next is a synovial biopsy. This patient has persistent inflammatory swelling of the right knee, with synovial fluid leukocyte counts between 15,000 and 20,000/µL (15-20 × 109/L). The differential diagnosis in this patient with chronic inflammatory monoarthritis includes mycobacterial, fungal, or Borrelia burgdorferi infection and other systemic rheumatologic diseases such as sarcoidosis. Frequently in these patients, synovial fluid analysis alone may be inadequate for diagnosis; serologies or other laboratory tests or synovial biopsy is required to establish the diagnosis. In this patient, a synovial biopsy is the most appropriate test to evaluate for all of the conditions in the differential diagnosis. The biggest concern here is Mycobacterium tuberculosis arthritis, given this patient's history of latent tuberculosis and a high risk due to advancing age.
Sarcoidosis is characterized by formation of noncaseating granulomas in multiple organs and tissues. These granulomas may increase angiotensin-converting enzyme levels. A history of latent tuberculosis, calcified granulomas in the upper lobe, and a chronically inflamed joint are more consistent with tuberculosis infection. In addition, the angiotensin-converting enzyme level is only 75% sensitive (25% of cases will be missed) and 90% specific (10% of positive results will be false positive), decreasing the usefulness of this test for sarcoidosis.
Multiple small pulmonary nodules (<5 mm) found incidentally in a patient without a known malignancy are likely to be nonmalignant. Like solitary pulmonary nodules, multiple pulmonary nodules may be further assessed with helical CT to better characterize their number, location, and morphology. However, in this patient, the previous history of tuberculosis, fever, and a chronic inflammatory monoarthritis strongly suggest tuberculosis, and a tissue diagnosis can be most easily established with synovial biopsy.
HLA-B27 testing may be useful in the evaluation of spondyloarthritis, which can present with chronic lower extremity inflammatory monoarthritis. However, this patient has no other findings of spondyloarthritis such as rash, bowel symptoms, or inflammatory back pain. Furthermore, HLA-B27 lacks specificity and is unlikely to yield the correct diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Gerlag DM, Tak PP. How to perform and analyse synovial biopsies. Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol. 2013;27:195-207. PMID: 23731931 doi:10.1016/j.berh.2013.03.006

This content was last updated in March 2019.