
### Correct Answer: A) Erosive osteoarthritis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose erosive osteoarthritis.

#### **Key Point:** Diagnosis of erosive hand osteoarthritis is based essentially on radiographic findings of articular surface erosions at the central portion of the joint; erosions are often symmetric and occur mainly in the distal interphalangeal joints.

Erosive osteoarthritis (OA) is the most likely diagnosis. Erosive OA is thought to be an aggressive subset of hand osteoarthritis that has periods of prominent inflammatory symptoms and characteristic erosive changes on imaging. Patients often experience pain, swelling, and joint deformities. Inflammatory damage to soft-tissue structures can result in deviation of the digits. Diagnosis is mostly based on the radiographic findings of articular surface erosions at the central portion of the joint. Erosions are often symmetric and occur mainly in the distal interphalangeal (DIP) and, to a lesser extent, proximal interphalangeal (PIP) joints. Radiographs reveal a “gull-wing” deformity, resulting from marginal sclerosis and osteophytes on the distal side of the joints, whereas the proximal side is centrally eroded or collapsed and thinned. Women are affected more frequently than men. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP), rheumatoid factor, and anti–cyclic citrullinated peptide antibodies are usually normal, as seen in this patient. Heberden nodes and squaring at the carpometacarpal joint also support a diagnosis of erosive OA in this patient.
Although gout flares may be superimposed upon sites of nodal OA, the inflamed DIP joints in this patient are less likely to represent a gouty flare given the normal ESR, CRP, and urate levels. Moreover, radiographs of patients with tophaceous gout often show marginal and juxta-articular punched-out erosions, which are not seen in this patient.
Psoriatic arthritis may be symmetric and affect the hands, including the DIP joints, but the patient reports no personal history of psoriasis, does not indicate significant morning stiffness, has no rashes or nail pitting, and does not have the marginal erosions on radiograph that would support this diagnosis.
Although the patient has symmetric hand arthritis and fits the typical demographics of a patient with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), the predominance of DIP symptoms, the lack of prolonged morning stiffness, the laboratory studies negative for inflammatory markers and/or RA autoantibodies, and the typical “gull-wing” deformity on radiograph (rather than marginal erosions) do not support RA as the diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Kloppenburg M, Kwok WY. Hand osteoarthritis—a heterogeneous disorder. Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2011;8:22-31. PMID: 22105244 doi:10.1038/nrrheum.2011.170

This content was last updated in August 2018.