
### Correct Answer: A) Chlamydia nucleic acid amplification urine testing 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose reactive arthritis.

#### **Key Point:** Nucleic acid amplification urine testing is the appropriate diagnostic test for suspected chlamydial reactive arthritis.

The most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next is nucleic acid amplification urine testing for chlamydia. Chlamydia trachomatis is the most common agent causing urethritis that is associated with reactive arthritis. This patient has the triad of conjunctivitis, urethritis, and arthritis seen in a subset of patients with chlamydial reactive arthritis. Typically, affected men experience dysuria and note a urethral discharge, although less frequently than in arthritis related to gonococcal infection. Gonococcal arthritis, however, is not associated with conjunctivitis and is often accompanied by vesicopustular skin lesions and tenosynovitis. Reactive arthritis typically occurs 3 to 6 weeks after the infectious trigger, with a latency range of 2 weeks to 6 months. In a significant minority of cases, the triggering infection may go unrecognized. Although infection has usually resolved by the time of arthritis onset in patients with reactive arthritis, nucleic acid amplification urine testing for C. trachomatis should be performed because some individuals may have asymptomatic persistent infection or carriage of this organism.
C-reactive protein would not be of value in establishing the diagnosis. The patient has an acute inflammatory process in the joints based on his history, physical examination, and synovial fluid analysis. C-reactive protein would not lend further diagnostic information.
HLA-B27 antigen may be present in those with reactive arthritis, but it has little diagnostic specificity in this disorder. The presence of HLA-B27 antigen would neither rule in nor rule out reactive arthritis.
The interferon-gamma release assay can indicate prior exposure to tuberculosis. The clinical picture in this scenario is not that of tuberculous arthritis, which tends to be monoarticular, most frequently affects the hip, has a course that is subacute with progressive pain and loss of function over weeks to months, and is not often associated with features of inflammatory synovitis on physical examination (warmth, erythema).

**Bibliography**

Carter JD, Hudson AP. Recent advances and future directions in understanding and treating Chlamydia-induced reactive arthritis. Expert Rev Clin Immunol. 2017;13:197-206. PMID: 27627462 doi:10.1080/1744666X.2017.1233816

This content was last updated in August 2018.