
### Correct Answer: A) Anti–double-stranded DNA antibodies 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose a systemic lupus erythematosus flare.

#### **Key Point:** Elevation of the erythrocyte sedimentation rate, rising anti–double-stranded DNA antibody titer, and low complement levels reliably diagnose a systemic lupus erythematosus flare.

Measurement of the anti–double-stranded DNA antibodies will be most helpful in evaluating this patient with a systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) flare. She has recent inflammatory swelling of multiple joints, malar eruption, hypertension, and new-onset edema. She also has an elevated urine protein-creatinine ratio, suggesting the presence of active lupus nephritis. In this situation, the measurement of inflammatory markers and other tests associated with SLE flares can be very useful in establishing a diagnosis and directing treatment. Elevation of the erythrocyte sedimentation rate, rising anti–double-stranded DNA antibody titer, and low complement levels reliably diagnose an SLE flare. Elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) is common in inflammatory states except in SLE, in which CRP levels do not rise during SLE flare-up (but do rise during an infectious episode). Complements are especially helpful in patients with SLE. Most inflammatory states are associated with increased complement levels except in certain immune complex–mediated diseases (SLE; cryoglobulinemic and urticarial vasculitis), where the levels decrease due to excessive consumption during active disease state. C3 and C4 are the commonly measured complements, and their levels decrease during the flare-up. An increase in the anti–double-stranded DNA antibody titer also indicates an SLE flare and has the best correlation with flare-up of lupus nephritis. A kidney biopsy to evaluate SLE kidney involvement should also be considered here.
Antinuclear antibody (ANA) testing is a useful screening tool for SLE but does not correlate with disease activity. Anti-Ro/SSA and anti-La/SSB antibodies correlate with SLE rashes and photosensitivity but do not correlate with disease activity. Anti-Smith antibodies are highly specific for the diagnosis of SLE but also do not correlate with disease activity. Anti-U1-ribonucleoprotein antibodies are found in patients with SLE and mixed connective tissue disease but do not correlate with disease activity.

**Bibliography**

Pisetsky DS. Anti-DNA antibodies—quintessential biomarkers of SLE. Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2016;12:102-10. PMID: 26581343 doi:10.1038/nrrheum.2015.151

This content was last updated in August 2018.