
### Correct Answer: D) Anti-HMG Co-A reductase antibodies 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy, myositis may persist despite statin discontinuation and is often associated with the production of anti-HMG Co-A reductase antibodies.

In addition to a muscle biopsy, anti-HMG Co-A reductase antibody testing is most likely to establish the diagnosis. A small number of patients taking statins develop immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM), which can be easily confused with polymyositis. IMNM is thought to occur as a result of an immune response to HMGCR, the pharmacologic target of statins. IMNM can be a paraneoplastic phenomenon related to connective tissue disease, or drug related, most commonly statins. Statin use may initiate or worsen the syndrome. In patients taking statins, myositis may rapidly progress and persist despite drug discontinuation due to this abnormal immune response and is often associated with the production of anti-HMG Co-A reductase antibodies. The histologic finding of necrotic muscle fibers with only minimal inflammatory cells that do not invade the muscle fibers is characteristic of IMNM, and, given the patient's history of exposure to statins, a muscle biopsy and determination of anti-HMG CO-A reductase antibodies will most likely establish the diagnosis. The condition may respond to immunosuppressive therapy.
Anti–cyclic citrullinated peptide antibodies are not seen in inflammatory myopathies; they have a relatively high specificity (>90%) for rheumatoid arthritis and may be useful in the differential diagnosis of early polyarticular inflammatory arthritis.
Anti-cytosolic 5′-nucleotidase 1A antibodies have been identified in about half of patients with inclusion body myositis. Strong reactivity for these antibodies has relatively high specificity for inclusion body myositis compared with other muscle diseases.
Anti-histidyl-tRNA synthetase antibodies, particularly the subset anti–Jo-1 antibodies, are associated with the presence of interstitial lung disease in patients with inflammatory myopathies and, in particular, with antisynthetase syndrome of interstitial lung disease, Raynaud phenomenon, inflammatory arthritis, and mechanic's hands.

**Bibliography**

Musset L, Allenbach Y, Benveniste O, Boyer O, Bossuyt X, Bentow C, et al. Anti-HMGCR antibodies as a biomarker for immune-mediated necrotizing myopathies: a history of statins and experience from a large international multi-center study. Autoimmun Rev. 2016;15:983-93. PMID: 27491568 doi:10.1016/j.autrev.2016.07.023

This content was last updated in August 2018.