
### Correct Answer: B) Lip biopsy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Sjögren syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** A lip biopsy should be considered in a patient with sicca and suspected Sjögren syndrome when initial serologic evaluation is uninformative.

The most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next is a lip biopsy. This patient has parotid and lacrimal enlargement and sicca. The differential diagnosis of sicca with parotid/lacrimal enlargement includes Sjögren syndrome, sarcoidosis, IgG4-related disease, HIV-associated diffuse lymphocytic infiltrate syndrome, and others. The American College of Rheumatology/European League Against Rheumatism has proposed diagnostic criteria for Sjögren syndrome. The most heavily weighted criteria include focal lymphocytic sialadenitis in labial salivary gland biopsy and the presence of anti-Ro/SSA antibodies. The presence of both will establish the diagnosis. Alternatively, the diagnosis can be established with one of the two major criteria and an abnormal ocular staining score of ≥5, abnormal Schirmer test, or abnormal whole saliva flow test. In addition, entities in the differential diagnosis should be excluded. The patient meets the criteria for keratoconjunctivitis sicca, but because of the absence of anti-Ro/SSA antibodies, additional support is needed. A lip biopsy to assess minor salivary gland pathology is relatively noninvasive; it can provide evidence sufficient to meet the proposed diagnostic criteria and might assist in ruling out other entities in the differential diagnosis.
CT of the chest might identify findings to support an alternative diagnosis. For example, findings of hilar lymphadenopathy or pulmonary nodules might support a diagnosis of sarcoidosis. However, the yield would be low given the normal chest radiograph.
Like lip biopsy, parotid biopsy can provide evidence of Sjögren syndrome; however, it is more invasive and risks seventh cranial nerve damage. Its use is currently limited to special situations.
A Schirmer test could conveniently confirm dry eyes, but dry eyes have already been confirmed by a more rigorous and reproducible ophthalmologic examination.
Sialography can assess the extent of mouth dryness, but the diagnosis of sicca has already been sufficiently confirmed.

**Bibliography**

Giovelli RA, Santos MC, Serrano ÉV, Valim V. Clinical characteristics and biopsy accuracy in suspected cases of Sjögren's syndrome referred to labial salivary gland biopsy. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2015;16:30. PMID: 25887888 doi:10.1186/s12891-015-0482-9

This content was last updated in August 2018.