
### Correct Answer: A) Aspiration of the right knee 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate acute monoarthritis with joint aspiration.

#### **Key Point:** Joint aspiration and synovial fluid analysis for Gram stain, cultures, and crystals are indicated to help diagnose the underlying cause of acute monoarthritis.

Aspiration of the right knee is the most appropriate test to establish the diagnosis. This patient has isolated inflammatory swelling of the right knee. Synovial fluid aspiration is essential when evaluating for infection and crystal-related disease and can distinguish between inflammatory and noninflammatory conditions. The most useful tests of synovial fluid for infection are leukocyte count, stains, and cultures, as well as evaluation of synovial fluid for crystals under polarized light. Synovial fluid leukocyte counts less than 200/µL (0.2 × 109/L) are considered normal, between 200/µL and 2000/µL (0.2-2.0 × 109/L) are associated with noninflammatory conditions, and greater than 2000/µL (2.0 × 109/L) are associated with inflammatory states. The higher the count is, the more inflammatory the fluid and the greater the suspicion for crystal-related or infectious disease. There is no absolute cutoff value that distinguishes infection from crystal-related disease, because some infections may have lower counts than expected and crystal-related disease may have counts greater than 100,000/µL (100 × 109/L). Thus, the proper application of synovial fluid leukocyte counts requires conservative interpretation. Generally, counts greater than 50,000/µL (50 × 109/L) should be managed as infectious until explicitly proven otherwise; if there is clinical suspicion for infection, fluid should be sent for stains and cultures even in the setting of counts less than 50,000/µL (50 × 109/L). Synovial fluid analysis can also confirm or rule out hemarthrosis, which can have a similar clinical presentation as in this case.
Blood cultures are appropriate in this patient but are only positive in 30% to 40% of patients with infectious arthritis and do not replace the need for arthrocentesis, which is the test most likely to establish the diagnosis.
The erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) commonly indicates the presence of inflammation, and elevations are used to identify and monitor disease activity in rheumatologic diseases. However, obtaining an ESR will not provide additional information not already gleaned from the physical examination and will not establish a specific diagnosis.
MRI can detect soft-tissue abnormalities, inflammation, and fluid collections but is not the most appropriate next step to establish the cause of this patient's acute monoarthritis because it cannot distinguish between infection and acute gout.

**Bibliography**

Becker JA, Daily JP, Pohlgeers KM. Acute monoarthritis: diagnosis in adults. Am Fam Physician. 2016;94:810-816. PMID: 27929277

This content was last updated in August 2018.