
### Correct Answer: A) Begin alendronate 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis.

#### **Key Point:** Patients at moderate or high 10-year risk for a major osteoporotic fracture taking at least 2.5 mg of prednisone daily for 3 months or more should begin prophylactic bisphosphonate therapy.

This patient at risk for glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis should begin alendronate. One of the many risks and side effects of chronic glucocorticoid therapy is osteoporosis. The Fracture Risk Assessment Tool (FRAX) calculator defines the 10-year fracture risk for patients with T-scores in the −1.0 to −2.5 range. The FRAX calculator () incorporates multiple risk factors, including sex, fracture history, femoral neck bone mineral density, glucocorticoid use, smoking, BMI, age, and alcohol intake to determine projected fracture risk. The American College of Rheumatology recommends that patients over the age of 40 years at moderate or high risk for osteoporotic fractures who are to be on at least 2.5 mg of prednisone daily for 3 months or more should begin prophylactic bisphosphonate therapy with alendronate, risedronate, or zoledronic acid. In patients on chronic glucocorticoid therapy, prophylactic bisphosphonate therapy significantly increases bone mineral density compared with placebo, and these patients also have fewer new vertebral fractures.
In patients at high risk for major osteoporotic fracture (10-year risk greater than 20% or a T score ≤−2.5 or a history of a fragility fracture) taking any dose of glucocorticoids for at least 1 month should receive prophylactic treatment (although these patients should be treated regardless of glucocorticoid therapy). Alendronate, risedronate, zoledronic acid, or teriparatide are therapeutic options. This patient is not in the high-risk category, and teriparatide is therefore not a recommended option.
Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) is useful at the outset of chronic glucocorticoid therapy to risk-stratify patients and to provide baseline values. Although there is no consensus on the optimal frequency of monitoring bone mineral density with DEXA, there is no role for repeating the study in less than 1 year.
Because of her prolonged need for prednisone and risk for osteoporotic fracture, no additional therapy would be inappropriate management for this patient.

**Bibliography**

Buckley L, Guyatt G, Fink HA, Cannon M, Grossman J, Hansen KE, et al. 2017 American College of Rheumatology Guideline for the Prevention and Treatment of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken). 2017;69:1095-1110. PMID: 28585410 doi:10.1002/acr.23279

This content was last updated in August 2018.