
### Correct Answer: C) Pulmonary arterial hypertension 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose pulmonary arterial hypertension in a patient with limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with systemic sclerosis, especially those with limited disease, are at risk for pulmonary arterial hypertension.

The most likely cause of her symptom is pulmonary arterial hypertension. Pulmonary vascular disease occurs in up to 40% of patients with systemic sclerosis. Vascular disease leading to pulmonary arterial hypertension may occur secondary to interstitial lung disease (typically in patients with diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis) or as an isolated process (typically in limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis). Patients are usually asymptomatic in early disease but later develop dyspnea on exertion and diminished exercise tolerance. Severe disease can lead to right-sided heart failure. This patient with limited cutaneous systemic sclerosis and progressive dyspnea has a normal chest radiograph and a normal pulmonary examination, but an increased pulmonic sound and a widened split of S2 on cardiac examination compatible with pulmonary hypertension. Taken together, the most likely cause of the patient's progressive dyspnea is pulmonary arterial hypertension. Initial evaluation of this patient should proceed with pulmonary function tests and echocardiography.
Interstitial lung disease (ILD) usually develops subacutely with progressive fibrosis. Patients with diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis and anti–Scl-70 antibodies are at higher risk for developing ILD. The most common symptom of ILD is slowly progressive dyspnea, at first on exertion, but later at rest. Other symptoms include nonproductive cough, decreased exercise tolerance, and chest pain. Auscultation reveals “Velcro”-like inspiratory crackles, most prominent at the lung bases. This patient's symptom complex limited to exertional dyspnea and normal pulmonary examination and chest radiograph make this diagnosis less likely.
Cardiac involvement in systemic sclerosis may be due to cardiac fibrosis or coronary artery disease or secondarily due to systemic or pulmonary hypertension. Intrinsic cardiac fibrosis is uncommon and usually asymptomatic. Conduction disturbances and arrhythmias are common and probably relate to fibrosis of the conduction system. This uncommon complication is not the most likely cause of progressive exertional dyspnea in this patient.
There is an increased risk for venous thromboembolism in patients with systemic sclerosis, and risk is greatest during the first year after diagnosis. This patient's 3-month history of progressive exertional dyspnea is unlikely due to acute venous thromboembolic disease.

**Bibliography**

Thakkar V, Lau EM. Connective tissue disease-related pulmonary arterial hypertension. Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol. 2016;30:22-38. PMID: 27421214 doi:10.1016/j.berh.2016.03.004

This content was last updated in August 2018.