
### Correct Answer: C) Radiography 

**Educational Objective:** Select the most appropriate imaging study for probable osteoarthritis.

#### **Key Point:** Radiography is typically used as the initial imaging modality to assess inflammatory arthritis and osteoarthritis.

Radiography is the most appropriate initial imaging study. Radiography is used to assess inflammatory arthritis and osteoarthritis (OA). Radiography does not visualize soft tissues nearly as well as bone, and due to the two-dimensional nature of the images, not all bone findings are visible on every view. Radiography may not detect early or mild erosive arthritic changes. Despite these limitations, serial radiography can be useful for monitoring arthritis disease progression. Radiography is relatively inexpensive and readily available. Despite low levels of ionizing radiation, radiography is considered safe except for pregnant women. In this case, the most likely diagnosis is OA of the right knee. Weight-bearing views should be obtained to more accurately assess the knee joint on radiographs. Typical radiographic OA features are osteophytes, joint-space narrowing, subchondral sclerosis, and cysts. Erosions are uncommon unless the erosive OA subtype is present, which usually is more aggressive and inflammatory on clinical evaluation.
In contrast to radiography, CT permits multiple views and orientations from a single study. CT is more sensitive for detecting bony abnormalities, such as bone erosions, than radiography or MRI. CT is more expensive than radiography and exposes the patient to more radiation.
MRI is useful in detecting soft-tissue abnormalities, inflammation, and fluid collections, but is less effective than CT in demonstrating bony abnormalities and erosive changes. MRI is more sensitive than radiography in detecting early spine and sacroiliac joint inflammation. MRI is more expensive than radiography and CT and is generally ordered when assessment of soft-tissue imaging is required. Radiography is a better choice than MRI to detect typical changes of OA.
Ultrasonography can detect soft-tissue abnormalities such as synovitis, tendinitis, bursitis, and joint fluid, and Doppler can assess for increased tissue blood flow consistent with synovitis. Ultrasonography can diagnose and monitor disease, and can be used to guide arthrocentesis. Ultrasonography is relatively inexpensive, and there is no ionizing radiation. Because inflammatory disease or joint aspiration is not anticipated and radiography will be better able to detect bony changes of OA, ultrasonography is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Jacobson JA, Girish G, Jiang Y, Sabb BJ. Radiographic evaluation of arthritis: degenerative joint disease and variations. Radiology. 2008;248:737-47. PMID: 18710973 doi:10.1148/radiol.2483062112

This content was last updated in August 2018.