
### Correct Answer: C) Pes anserine bursitis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose pes anserine bursitis.

#### **Key Point:** Pes anserine bursitis is an inflammatory condition affecting the bursa at the insertion of the conjoined medial knee tendons into the anteromedial proximal tibia and should be considered when there is localized pain inferomedial to the knee joint.

The most likely diagnosis is pes anserine bursitis, an inflammatory condition affecting the bursa at the insertion of the conjoined medial knee tendons into the anteromedial proximal tibia. This condition has been known to affect athletes but can also occur in those with concurrent knee osteoarthritis (usually in obese women) even without a history of trauma or overuse. The diagnosis of pes anserine bursitis is clinical, based on a history of increased medial knee pain worsened with climbing or descending stairs or rising from a seated position. Patients may also note morning pain and stiffness lasting more than 1 hour, and pain may worsen at night. Physical examination showing severe point tenderness at the insertion of the anserine tendon about 3 to 6 cm (2 in) below the medial joint line, often with local edema, supports the diagnosis. Relief with injection of a local anesthetic is also supportive.
A medial collateral ligament (MCL) tear may cause medial knee pain, which can also extend to where the MCL inserts on the anteromedial proximal tibia; however, an MCL injury is very painful and may cause difficulty ambulating. MCL injury is suspected when there is pain and/or laxity on valgus stress of the knee.
A meniscal tear could cause medial knee pain, but the pain is usually around the joint line; patients may also have unusual sensations in the knee such as clicking, locking, catching, or a sensation that the joint gives way. There are several provocative maneuvers on physical examination that may suggest a meniscal tear.
Quadriceps tendonitis occurs as a result of stress placed upon the quadriceps tendon, usually from sports-related activities. Pain can be felt at the lower part of the thigh, just above the patella. There may also be swelling around the quadriceps tendon.

**Bibliography**

Alvarez-Nemegyei J, Canoso JJ. Evidence-based soft tissue rheumatology IV: anserine bursitis. J Clin Rheumatol. 2004;10:205-6. PMID: 17043509

This content was last updated in August 2018.