
### Correct Answer: C) Relapsing polychondritis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose relapsing polychondritis.

#### **Key Point:** Relapsing polychondritis is characterized by inflammation and damage of cartilaginous tissues; tissues most commonly affected include the cartilaginous portions of the external and middle ear, nose, tracheobronchial tree, and joints.

The most likely diagnosis is relapsing polychondritis (RP). RP is characterized by inflammation and damage of cartilaginous tissues; tissues most commonly affected include the cartilaginous portions of the external and middle ear, nose, tracheobronchial tree, and joints. Auricular involvement affects the helix but spares the earlobes. Nasal chondritis can result in collapse of the nasal bridge (saddle nose deformity), which can also be seen in trauma, granulomatosis with polyangiitis, cocaine use, congenital syphilis, and leprosy. Airway stenosis from tracheal ring involvement and aortitis/large-vessel vasculitis may occur and be life-threatening. RP is diagnosed by its typical clinical manifestations. Laboratory tests are nonspecific; acute phase reactants are elevated in 80%, and mild anemia is present in 44%. Patients with RP should undergo imaging (CT or MRI) to evaluate the large airways for inflammation/stenosis. This patient has a history of recurrent inflammation of the cartilage of the right ear, inflammatory eye disease, inflammatory arthritis, and bronchial strictures due to inflammation of bronchial cartilage, consistent with a diagnosis of RP.
Cogan syndrome (interstitial keratitis, with cochlear and vestibular dysfunction) is an unlikely diagnosis because the patient has neither vestibular nor cochlear findings.
Polyarteritis nodosa, a medium-vessel vasculitis, affects the mesenteric and renal arteries. Patients usually present with abdominal symptoms, neurologic involvement, and skin findings. Polyarteritis nodosa does not involve the eye or cartilage of the ear, nose, or airways, making this an unlikely diagnosis.
Besides the inflammatory arthritis, this patient has no typical symptoms or signs of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). In addition, SLE does not typically cause inflammation and destruction of cartilaginous structures.

**Bibliography**

Vitale A, Sota J, Rigante D, Lopalco G, Molinaro F, Messina M, et al. Relapsing polychondritis: an update on pathogenesis, clinical features, diagnostic tools, and therapeutic perspectives. Curr Rheumatol Rep. 2016;18:3. PMID: 26711694 doi:10.1007/s11926-015-0549-5

This content was last updated in August 2018.