
### Correct Answer: E) No additional testing 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose ankylosing spondylitis.

#### **Key Point:** A diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis can be made in a patient younger than age 45 years with symptoms of inflammatory back pain for 3 months or more and bilateral sacroiliitis on imaging.

No additional tests are necessary. Different criteria have been proposed for the diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis. Common requirements include the presence of inflammatory back pain for 3 or more months in a person younger than age 45 years, limited lumbar spine motion, elevated inflammatory markers, and evidence of bilateral sacroiliitis on imaging. The patient has a long history of inflammatory back pain (improves with exercise, worsens with sleep or inactivity), loss of range of motion of the lumbar spine, and radiographs showing fusion of the sacroiliac joints, one of the typical features of ankylosing spondylitis. It is important to establish the diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis to assess the risk of further joint fusion and deformity in this patient.
ANCA is present in some forms of medium-vessel vasculitis. In the absence of cutaneous or internal organ manifestations suggestive of vasculitis (sinus, pulmonary, kidney, cutaneous, and ophthalmologic abnormalities), it is not appropriate as the next step in this patient's evaluation.
Anti–cyclic citrullinated peptide antibodies have specificity for the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis and are appropriately ordered when patients present with bilaterally symmetric inflammatory arthritis of the small joints of the hands. These antibodies will not establish the diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis.
Testing for antinuclear antibodies should be carried out when there is suspicion for the presence of systemic lupus erythematosus. This patient does not have rash, sun sensitivity, alopecia, oral ulcers, pleuropericarditis, kidney disease, or laboratory abnormalities that would raise suspicion for lupus.
The presence of HLA-B27 antigen is not a diagnostic criterion for ankylosing spondylitis. However, such testing may be particularly helpful in patients with inflammatory back pain and other manifestations of ankylosing spondylitis but without evidence of sacroiliitis on imaging.

**Bibliography**

Taurog JD, Chhabra A, Colbert RA. Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis. N Engl J Med. 2016;374:2563-74. PMID: 27355535 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1406182

This content was last updated in August 2018.