
### Correct Answer: D) No change in therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat rheumatoid arthritis during pregnancy.

#### **Key Point:** Methotrexate and leflunomide are contraindicated in pregnant patients because these medications are highly teratogenic and must not be used before/during pregnancy; hydroxychloroquine can be safely used during pregnancy.

No change in therapy is needed for this pregnant patient with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). For women with established RA, two thirds will go into remission or achieve low disease activity during pregnancy; however, one third will not improve or will get worse. Improvement may depend on an HLA-DQ mismatch between mother and child and/or other factors such as microchimerism (sharing of maternal cells with the fetus and vice versa). The benefit begins in the first trimester and continues throughout the pregnancy. Disease activity typically returns, often with a flare, after delivery. Medication management of a patient with RA is a major issue, and pregnancy plans should be discussed with any woman of childbearing age who will be placed on therapy. Hydroxychloroquine is an antimalarial medication that appears to inhibit antigen processing. It can be used to treat RA and other forms of inflammatory arthritis. Although its efficacy in arthritis is modest, its excellent side-effect profile makes it a useful adjunctive therapy. Hydroxychloroquine crosses the placenta; however, there does not appear to be fetal toxicity with doses used for the treatment of RA. This patient currently has minimal disease activity and is likely to improve during pregnancy; therefore, she requires no change in therapy.
Limited case studies suggest that use of tumor necrosis factor α inhibitors during pregnancy may be safe, but a relationship to rare birth defects has been raised. Different agents may have different potential to cross the placenta. Decisions regarding the use of any biologic agent in pregnancy should incorporate risk-benefit analysis. Etanercept could be used only if this patient has a significant flare of disease during pregnancy but is not needed at the current time.
Leflunomide is contraindicated in this patient; this medication is extremely teratogenic and must not be used before/during pregnancy. Pregnancy must be avoided until the drug is no longer detectable in the serum; cholestyramine may be used to hasten the elimination of leflunomide from the body.
Methotrexate was discontinued prior to attempted conception, which is highly appropriate. Methotrexate is highly teratogenic and abortifacient, and it must be discontinued at least 3 months before pregnancy.

**Bibliography**

Ince-Askan H, Dolhain RJ. Pregnancy and rheumatoid arthritis. Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol. 2015;29:580-96. PMID: 26697768 doi:10.1016/j.berh.2015.07.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.