
### Correct Answer: D) Prednisone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat gouty cellulitis.

#### **Key Point:** Prednisone is appropriate treatment for gouty cellulitis accompanying an attack of acute gouty arthritis.

The most appropriate next step in management is treatment with prednisone. This patient has gouty cellulitis accompanying an attack of acute gouty arthritis of the ankle. This well-recognized manifestation is often misdiagnosed as bacterial cellulitis and treated (unsuccessfully) with antibiotics. Prednisone should resolve both the acute gouty arthritis and gouty cellulitis; a typical dose is 40 mg/d for 5 days.
NSAIDs such as indomethacin should be avoided in this patient who is anticoagulated with apixaban for atrial fibrillation.
Antibiotics such as intravenous clindamycin would be indicated for bacterial cellulitis, for which there is no evidence. There is not an expanding area of skin involvement, and two previous courses of antibiotics have not improved symptoms. Additionally, cellulitis would not explain the inflamed ankle joint. An infected joint with concomitant cellulitis is unlikely because of the protracted time course.
MRI of the lower leg would be appropriate to help define chronic osteomyelitis. This is unlikely, however, given the patient's lack of clear predisposing factors such as diabetes mellitus or an overlying skin ulcer, as well as normal plain radiographs after a month of symptoms.
Surgical debridement is the initial approach for necrotizing fasciitis. Necrotizing fasciitis, however, has a more fulminant course. It is unlikely in this afebrile, nontoxic-appearing patient with normal vital signs, whose symptoms have not significantly worsened during the past 4 weeks.

**Bibliography**

Perez-Ruiz F, Castillo E, Chinchilla SP, Herrero-Beites AM. Clinical manifestations and diagnosis of gout. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 2014;40:193-206. PMID: 24703343 doi:10.1016/j.rdc.2014.01.003

This content was last updated in August 2018.