
### Correct Answer: B) Add pregabalin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat fibromyalgia.

#### **Key Point:** Combination pharmacologic therapy that takes advantage of complementary mechanisms of action may be helpful in some patients with fibromyalgia.

The addition of pregabalin is the most appropriate treatment. This patient's current symptoms and history are consistent with her prior diagnosis of fibromyalgia. Patients with fibromyalgia typically benefit from validation of their symptoms by a physician because many patients have previously had their complaints disregarded by caregivers or family. In addition to psychological support and exercise, pharmacotherapy is a mainstay of fibromyalgia management. Three drugs are FDA approved for fibromyalgia: pregabalin, duloxetine, and milnacipran. Each provides an average benefit of approximately 30% reduction in pain. The latter two agents can also address coexisting mood disorder. This patient has already been appropriately started on duloxetine, and has had significant but insufficient pain improvement. Because patients with fibromyalgia often benefit from combination therapy, the addition of a new treatment, acting through a complementary mechanism, is indicated now for this patient. In contrast to the dual serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor duloxetine, which enhances the suppression of pain signals, pregabalin inhibits glutamate release to directly reduce the passage of pain signals from the dorsal root ganglion. The combination is frequently of benefit.
Meloxicam is a long-acting NSAID that has better gastrointestinal tolerability than some other NSAIDs. However, NSAIDs have not shown reliable benefit for fibromyalgia pain.
Gabapentin shares its mechanism of action with pregabalin; although its pharmacokinetics are less reliable than pregabalin, and it is not FDA approved for this indication, its use in fibromyalgia is accepted; however, the discontinuation of duloxetine would be inadvisable.
Although dual serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors are beneficial in fibromyalgia, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors such as sertraline have not shown any benefit when used as single agents.

**Bibliography**

Gilron I, Chaparro LE, Tu D, Holden RR, Milev R, Towheed T, et al. Combination of pregabalin with duloxetine for fibromyalgia: a randomized controlled trial. Pain. 2016;157:1532-40. PMID: 26982602 doi:10.1097/j.pain.0000000000000558

This content was last updated in August 2018.