
### Correct Answer: D) Mycophenolate mofetil 

**Educational Objective:** Treat interstitial lung disease associated with diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis.

#### **Key Point:** Mycophenolate mofetil is an appropriate treatment option for patients who have interstitial lung disease associated with systemic sclerosis.

Mycophenolate mofetil is the most appropriate treatment for this patient who has interstitial lung disease (ILD) associated with diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis. In systemic sclerosis (SSc), significant ILD occurs in 50% of patients with diffuse disease and in 35% of those with limited disease. The presence of anti–Scl-70 (DNA topoisomerase-1) antibodies increases the risk for ILD. Cyclophosphamide has been used to improve and/or stabilize lung involvement in SSc, but its utility is limited because it can only be taken for a limited time and the positive results are lost in the year after stopping cyclophosphamide. Recently, mycophenolate mofetil has been shown to be as effective as cyclophosphamide and is a medication that can be used for many years. Data indicate that mycophenolate mofetil can improve FVC in 75% of patients with SSc-ILD who are able to take this medication for 2 years. It can also improve, similar to cyclophosphamide, the skin thickening associated with SSc in 71% of patients. This patient's FVC and DLCO are down compared with previous determinations, and the high-resolution CT scan of the chest shows findings consistent with nonspecific interstitial pneumonitis. Therefore, treatment with mycophenolate mofetil is appropriate.
In head-to-head comparisons, cyclophosphamide was as effective as mycophenolate mofetil in improving respiratory function and dyspnea, but mycophenolate mofetil was better tolerated than cyclophosphamide based on a longer time to patient withdrawal and was associated with a better safety profile, including lower incidence of leukopenia and thrombocytopenia.
High-dose glucocorticoids are frequently used in patients with SSc-ILD; however, there is no clear evidence of their benefit, and their use may convey an increased risk for scleroderma renal crisis and should be avoided.
Methotrexate does not have the data to support its use in SSc-ILD and because it can cause pulmonary fibrosis, it is not a good choice for this patient.

**Bibliography**

Tashkin DP, Roth MD, Clements PJ, Furst DE, Khanna D, Kleerup EC, et al; Sclerodema Lung Study II Investigators. Mycophenolate mofetil versus oral cyclophosphamide in scleroderma-related interstitial lung disease (SLS II): a randomised controlled, double-blind, parallel group trial. Lancet Respir Med. 2016;4:708-19. PMID: 27469583 doi:10.1016/S2213-2600(16)30152-7

This content was last updated in August 2018.