
### Correct Answer: A) Add hydroxychloroquine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat undifferentiated connective tissue disease with hydroxychloroquine.

#### **Key Point:** Treatment of undifferentiated connective tissue disease is the same as other connective tissue diseases and is based on the manifestations of the individual patient.

The addition of hydroxychloroquine is the most appropriate treatment for this patient's arthritis symptoms. This patient has undifferentiated connective tissue disease (UCTD), a term used to describe an autoimmune disease that has clinical manifestations of other specific connective tissue diseases, but not enough positive features to satisfy diagnostic or classification criteria for any one disease. She has Raynaud phenomenon, inflammatory arthritis, and positive antinuclear antibodies, but does not have enough clinical findings to establish a more specific diagnosis. Over time, her condition may evolve into a specific connective tissue disease, most commonly systemic lupus erythematosus. Management of UCTD is the same as other connective tissue diseases and is based on the manifestations of the individual patient. This patient has not responded to a trial of an NSAID and has impaired activities of daily living; thus, she is a candidate for hydroxychloroquine.
Discontinuing naproxen and starting ibuprofen is not indicated because ibuprofen is not necessarily more effective than naproxen.
Obtaining radiography of the feet in a patient without symptoms or physical findings in the feet is unlikely to show any abnormality and thus will not provide any useful diagnostic information.
Repeating anti–double-stranded DNA antibody testing is not appropriate because the results are unlikely to have changed over a 1-month period. Repeat testing could be considered in the future if the patient's clinical condition changes.
Repeating antinuclear antibody testing will not provide further insight into the diagnosis, and the titer does not correlate with disease activity.

**Bibliography**

Mosca M, Tani C, Carli L, Bombardieri S. Undifferentiated CTD: a wide spectrum of autoimmune diseases. Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol. 2012;26:73-7. PMID: 22424194 doi:10.1016/j.berh.2012.01.005

This content was last updated in August 2018.