
### Correct Answer: D) Localized skin rash 

**Educational Objective:** Recognize the most common side effect of a topical NSAID.

#### **Key Point:** Topical NSAIDs are recommended to treat osteoarthritis in patients aged 75 years or older because they provide similar pain relief as oral medications with greater gastrointestinal safety and tolerability, but with an increased incidence of skin irritation and rash.

The patient should be warned about localized skin rash as a possible side effect of topical NSAIDs recently prescribed for her knee osteoarthritis (OA). Topical NSAIDs such as diclofenac (available as a solution, spray, gel, or patch) provide similar pain relief as oral medications with fewer gastrointestinal effects. The American College of Rheumatology currently recommends topical NSAIDs rather than oral NSAIDs for patients aged 75 years or older because topical NSAIDs are considered to provide similar OA pain relief as oral medications, with greater gastrointestinal safety and tolerability. However, there are slightly more skin reactions (rash, itch, and burning) than placebo (rate ratio, 1.14 [95% CI, 0.51-2.55]). Topical diclofenac 1% gel may be less prone to produce local skin reactions compared with the solution, but it may be slightly less effective in reducing pain.
Simple analgesics are neither anti-inflammatory nor disease modifying but can help relieve pain in patients with arthritis. Topical analgesics (such as capsaicin and lidocaine) may be useful and can limit systemic drug exposure when only a single area is painful. Topical capsaicin is safe to use in the treatment of OA, but it can be associated with local irritation of the eyes and mucous membranes when drug residue is transferred from the fingers to these areas.
Intra-articular glucocorticoids can reduce OA knee pain within days to weeks. When a joint effusion is present, glucocorticoid injections can be particularly helpful after drainage of the excessive joint fluid. Local side effects include skin hypopigmentation, subcutaneous tissue atrophy, and joint infection.

**Bibliography**

Lin J, Zhang W, Jones A, Doherty M. Efficacy of topical non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in the treatment of osteoarthritis: meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. BMJ. 2004;329:324. PMID: 15286056

This content was last updated in August 2018.