
### Correct Answer: A) Acute calcium pyrophosphate crystal arthritis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose acute calcium pyrophosphate crystal arthritis.

#### **Key Point:** Acute calcium pyrophosphate crystal arthritis (pseudogout) is characterized by the sudden onset of pain, warmth, tenderness, and swelling of the affected joint, usually a knee or wrist; attacks are typically longer than those of gout.

The most likely diagnosis is acute calcium pyrophosphate (CPP) crystal arthritis (pseudogout). Acute CPP crystal arthritis occurs episodically and is generally a condition that occurs in the elderly. The most frequently involved joints are knees and wrists. An acute attack is characterized by pain, warmth, tenderness, and swelling; signs of systemic inflammation may be present but are not universal. Attacks can last for weeks to months (in general, longer than gout attacks). Acute CPP crystal arthritis usually occurs in patients with osteoarthritis of involved joints, and plain radiographs may demonstrate chondrocalcinosis, seen as a thin radiopaque line of CPP deposition at chondral surfaces (most easily appreciated in the knees, pubic symphysis, and wrists). Ideally, acute CPP crystal arthritis is definitively diagnosed by identifying positively refringent rhomboid-shaped CPP crystals from joint fluid. However, there is rarely fluid to drain from a wrist, and even when fluid is obtainable, CPP crystals can be difficult to identify.
Gout appears less likely than acute CPP crystal arthritis given the joints involved and the lengthy nature of the attacks. Initially, gout usually affects the metatarsophalangeal joints, the mid foot, ankles, and knees, although in postmenopausal women the finger joints may be affected (especially those with pre-existing osteoarthritis). Even without treatment, most gout attacks resolve within 10 to 14 days. Additionally, the low serum urate level makes gout less likely.
Infectious arthritis is highly unlikely in this patient because symptoms began 2 weeks ago, she otherwise appears well, and her radiographs demonstrate no joint destruction (which would be expected 2 weeks into an untreated joint infection). Additionally, she had two prior similar episodes, and infectious arthritis is not self-limited or recurrent.
Palindromic rheumatism is an uncommon arthritis that is often a precursor to rheumatoid arthritis and is characterized by acute episodes of monoarthritis that last from 24 to 72 hours; attacks migrate between different appendicular joints, especially the metacarpophalangeal and proximal interphalangeal joints. The prolonged symptoms and joints in this case do not fit the pattern of palindromic rheumatism.

**Bibliography**

Rosenthal AK, Ryan LM. Calcium Pyrophosphate Deposition Disease. N Engl J Med. 2016;374:2575-84. PMID: 27355536 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1511117

This content was last updated in August 2018.