
### Correct Answer: C) Rheumatoid pleuritis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose rheumatoid arthritis–related pleural effusion.

#### **Key Point:** Pleuritis is the most common rheumatoid arthritis pulmonary manifestation but is frequently asymptomatic; exudative pleural effusions may occur.

Rheumatoid pleuritis is the most likely cause of this patient's pleural effusion. Pleuritis is the most common rheumatoid arthritis (RA) pulmonary manifestation but is frequently asymptomatic; exudative pleural effusions may occur. According to the Light criteria, this pleural fluid is an exudate based upon an elevated pleural fluid lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) concentration greater than two thirds the upper limit of normal for serum LDH. In rheumatoid effusions, pleural leukocyte count is typically less than 5000/µL (5.0 × 109/L), pleural fluid glucose is less than 60 mg/dL (3.33 mmol/L), and pH is less than 7.3. This exudative pleural effusion is compatible with rheumatoid pleurisy, malignancy, and tuberculosis pleurisy.
Malignancy is a possible diagnosis accounting for this patient's pleural effusion. However, extremely low pleural fluid glucose concentrations are found only in rheumatoid pleurisy and empyema. Glucose concentration of approximately 30 to 60 mg/dL (1.7-3.3 mmol/L) is more typical of malignancy. In addition, pleural fluid lymphocytosis, particularly with lymphocyte counts representing 85% or more of the total nucleated cells, is not commonly associated with malignancies other than lymphoma. When in doubt, a chest CT with contrast should be performed in patients with pleural effusion of indeterminate cause.
The low leukocyte count and lymphocytic predominance is not compatible with an acute parapneumonic effusion.
Tumor necrosis factor α inhibitors such as etanercept increase the risk for tuberculosis. However, a previous negative tuberculin skin test and low pleural fluid adenosine deaminase measurement (<40 U/L) effectively rule out this diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Kelly C, Iqbal K, Iman-Gutierrez L, Evans P, Manchegowda K. Lung involvement in inflammatory rheumatic diseases. Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol. 2016 Oct;30(5):870-888. doi: 10.1016/j.berh.2016.10.004. PMID: 27964793

This content was last updated in August 2018.