
### Correct Answer: C) Scleroderma renal crisis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose scleroderma renal crisis.

#### **Key Point:** The typical presentation of scleroderma renal crisis is acute kidney injury and severe hypertension, mild proteinuria, urinalysis with few cells or casts, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, and thrombocytopenia.

The most likely diagnosis is scleroderma renal crisis (SRC) in this patient with systemic sclerosis. Kidney involvement is common in systemic sclerosis. Up to 50% of patients have mild proteinuria, elevation in the plasma creatinine concentration, and/or hypertension, but most do not progress to chronic kidney disease. The most striking and life-threatening manifestation of kidney disease is SRC. SRC occurs in 10% to 15% of patients, and is more frequent in diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis (DcSSc) and in patients with anti-RNA polymerase III antibodies. SRC tends to occur early in the disease course; if untreated, it carries a mortality rate approaching 90%. The typical presentation is acute kidney injury and severe hypertension, mild proteinuria, urinalysis with few cells or casts, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, and thrombocytopenia. Some patients develop pulmonary edema and hypertensive encephalopathy. Occasionally, patients remain normotensive despite kidney dysfunction. ACE inhibitors significantly improve kidney survival and decrease mortality among patients with SRC, regardless of the serum creatinine level.
Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) is characterized by abnormal activation of coagulation, generation of thrombin, consumption of clotting factors, and peripheral destruction of platelets. DIC may result from various causes, including sepsis, obstetric emergencies, acute leukemias (especially acute promyelocytic leukemia), severe burns, venoms, and shock. It is not associated with a hypertensive emergency or urgency.
Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is caused by some strains of Escherichia coli, including the O157:H7 strain that produces Shiga-like toxin that targets the vascular endothelium of the glomerulus, causing cell death, breakdown of the endothelium, hemorrhage, and activation of platelets and inflammatory pathways resulting in intravascular thrombosis and hemolysis. It manifests as microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and acute kidney injury in the setting of dysentery. The absence of dysentery in this patient makes HUS an unlikely diagnosis.
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura is characterized by abnormal activation of platelets and endothelial cells, deposition of fibrin in the microvasculature, and peripheral destruction of erythrocytes and platelets. The diagnosis is clinical and requires the presence of thrombocytopenia and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia in the absence of other causes of these findings such as SRC. In this patient with systemic sclerosis, the diagnosis of SRC is much more likely.

**Bibliography**

Woodworth TG, Suliman YA, Furst DE, Clements P. Scleroderma renal crisis and renal involvement in systemic sclerosis. Nat Rev Nephrol. 2016;12:678-691. PMID: 27641135 doi:10.1038/nrneph.2016.124

This content was last updated in August 2018.