
### Correct Answer: A) Behçet syndrome 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Behçet syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Behçet syndrome is characterized by recurrent painful oral and genital mucosal ulcerations, inflammatory eye disease, and pathergy.

The most likely diagnosis is Behçet syndrome, a systemic disease associated with inflammatory infiltration of multiple organs. The disease is characterized by recurrent painful oral and genital mucosal ulcerations, inflammatory eye disease (panuveitis, retinal vasculitis), and pathergy (an inflammatory response to skin prick with a sterile needle). Other clinical manifestations include venous thrombosis; central nervous system (CNS) manifestations such as brainstem lesions and aseptic meningitis, with the most common CNS symptoms being headache and diplopia; inflammatory arthritis (usually in the knees); skin lesions; and gastrointestinal inflammation/ulceration indistinguishable from inflammatory bowel disease. Behçet syndrome is most common in countries along the Silk Road and is more prevalent in men. The International Criteria for Behçet Disease are both sensitive and specific for the diagnosis and include the following weighted elements: genital aphthosis (2 points); ocular lesions (uveitis or retinal vasculitis) (2 points); oral aphthosis (1 point); skin lesions (pseudofolliculitis or erythema nodosum) (1 point); vascular lesions (superficial phlebitis, deep vein thrombosis, large vein thrombosis, arterial thrombosis, or aneurysm) (1 point); and pathergy (1 point). Three points are required to establish the diagnosis; this patient has 5 points.
Whereas Crohn disease can be associated with aphthous ulcers, uveitis, and peripheral arthritis, the lack of gastrointestinal symptoms make this an unlikely diagnosis.
Sarcoidosis can manifest as acute arthritis, bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy, and erythema nodosum, and a more chronic form of arthritis affects 1% to 4% of patients that may involve shoulders, hands, wrists, knees, and ankles. Uveitis is a common manifestation of sarcoidosis. Papular, nodular, and plaque-like skin lesions are common in sarcoidosis, but mucosal or genital ulcerations are not found.
Joint involvement occurs in 90% of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), most commonly polyarthralgia, with frank arthritis involving both small and large peripheral joints found in 40% of patients. Bilateral knee inflammatory arthritis would be an unusual initial presentation for SLE. Oral ulcers can occur but are classically painless, and genital ulcers typically do not occur. Uveitis is one of the many ocular compilations of SLE but is relatively rare.

**Bibliography**

International Team for the Revision of the International Criteria for Behçet's Disease (ITR-ICBD). The International Criteria for Behçet's Disease (ICBD): a collaborative study of 27 countries on the sensitivity and specificity of the new criteria. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2014;28:338-47. PMID: 23441863 doi:10.1111/jdv.12107

This content was last updated in August 2018.