
### Correct Answer: C) Gastric antral vascular ectasia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose gastric antral vascular ectasia associated with diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis are at risk for acute and chronic gastrointestinal bleeding secondary to gastric antral vascular ectasia.

The most likely diagnosis is gastric antral vascular ectasia (GAVE) associated with systemic sclerosis. GAVE is the proliferation of blood vessels typically in the antrum of the stomach; on endoscopy, it has the appearance of watermelon stripes (watermelon stomach). Approximately 60% of patients with GAVE have an underlying autoimmune disease; the remainder have portal hypertension secondary to hepatic cirrhosis. GAVE can be a source of both acute and chronic gastrointestinal bleeding. First-line therapy is argon plasma coagulation or laser coagulation.
Cameron lesions are erosions found on the crest of gastric folds within a large hiatal hernia and are thought to be caused by mechanical trauma as the hiatal hernia slides up and down. Up to 5% of patients with known hiatal hernias may have Cameron lesions. There is no evidence of a hiatal hernia, making this diagnosis unlikely.
Dieulafoy lesions are submucosal arterioles that intermittently protrude through the mucosa and cause hemorrhage. Dieulafoy lesions are of unknown etiology and account for about 2% of all causes of acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding and are located in the proximal stomach along the lesser curvature. When bleeding they appear as an isolated pumping arteriole in the absence of a mass or ulcer. The patient's findings do not match those of Dieulafoy lesions.
Portal hypertensive gastropathy (PHG) commonly occurs with advanced cirrhosis and has a characteristic mosaic appearance on endoscopy, most often seen in the body and fundus. It can be confused with GAVE. This patient has no history of cirrhosis or findings to suggest chronic liver disease, making PHG an unlikely diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Fuccio L, Mussetto A, Laterza L, Eusebi LH, Bazzoli F. Diagnosis and management of gastric antral vascular ectasia. World J Gastrointest Endosc. 2013;5:6-13. PMID: 23330048 doi:10.4253/wjge.v5.i1.6

This content was last updated in August 2018.