
### Correct Answer: C) Low-dose prednisone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat chronic calcium pyrophosphate arthropathy.

#### **Key Point:** Treatment options for chronic calcium pyrophosphate arthropathy include low-dose glucocorticoids, low-dose colchicine, or NSAIDs to prevent inflammatory manifestations of the disease.

Low-dose prednisone is the most appropriate treatment for this patient with chronic calcium pyrophosphate arthropathy, which may be present as two patterns: chronic calcium pyrophosphate (CPP) crystal inflammatory arthritis, and osteoarthritis with calcium pyrophosphate deposition (CPPD). Chronic CPP crystal inflammatory arthritis is a rare polyarthritis involving the wrists and metacarpophalangeal joints (“pseudo–rheumatoid arthritis”), with the absence of serologies associated with rheumatoid arthritis. The course may be marked by episodes of acute pseudogout, radiographic chondrocalcinosis, and lack of chronic inflammation on examination. Osteoarthritis with CPPD manifests as typical osteoarthritic findings involving joints not commonly associated with osteoarthritis (such as shoulders or metacarpophalangeal joints). Radiographic findings of osteoarthritis with CPPD (subchondral bone cysts, osteophytes, and subchondral sclerosis, consistent with osteoarthritis) often precede the onset of osteoarthritis. This patient presents with findings on examination and radiograph consistent with both patterns of chronic calcium pyrophosphate arthropathy. Treatment of chronic calcium pyrophosphate arthropathy can be difficult because there is a paucity of data. Options include low-dose glucocorticoids, low-dose colchicine, or NSAIDs to prevent inflammatory manifestations of the disease. For this patient, low-dose daily prednisone is appropriate.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α inhibitors have not been investigated as a treatment for chronic calcium pyrophosphate arthropathy, and beginning a TNF-α inhibitor such as adalimumab in not indicated. In this patient, the complete absence of response to one TNF-α inhibitor is another clue that rheumatoid arthritis was an incorrect diagnosis.
Allopurinol is a urate-lowering therapy, but calcium pyrophosphate deposition results from calcium pyrophosphate rather than uric acid deposition. The radiographic presence of chondrocalcinosis and osteoarthritic changes, as well as the absence of classic gouty erosions characterized by punched-out lesions with overhanging edges, argue against the diagnosis of chronic tophaceous gout. Finally, a low serum urate level and the absence of tophi also argue against the diagnosis of chronic tophaceous gout.
Methotrexate was recently found to be no better than placebo in a randomized trial for chronic calcium pyrophosphate arthropathy.
Although daily NSAID therapy can be a reasonable option, this patient is an elderly woman with hypertension and chronic kidney disease, making NSAIDs relatively contraindicated.

**Bibliography**

Rosenthal AK, Ryan LM. Calcium Pyrophosphate Deposition Disease. N Engl J Med. 2016;374:2575-84. PMID: 27355536 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1511117

This content was last updated in August 2018.