
### Correct Answer: D) Reduce prednisone dose 

**Educational Objective:** Treat drug-induced myopathy.

#### **Key Point:** Glucocorticoid myopathy should be suspected in a patient with recent initiation of high-dose glucocorticoids, cushingoid features, initial clinical improvement, and reduction in serum creatine kinase levels who has an increase in weakness with reduction in the glucocorticoid dose; treatment is appropriate dose reduction or discontinuation if possible.

The most appropriate management is reduction of the prednisone dose in this patient with drug-induced myopathy caused by glucocorticoids. Glucocorticoid myopathy is a common consequence of prolonged treatment with high-dose glucocorticoids, as seen in this patient treated for polymyositis. Distinguishing between glucocorticoid-induced myopathy and active inflammatory myopathy is important, particularly in older patients for whom long-term glucocorticoid side effects can be particularly debilitating. The history is suggestive of glucocorticoid myopathy when a patient has been started on high-dose glucocorticoids within a few months, has cushingoid features, and has normal serum creatine kinase levels. No single feature is diagnostic on electromyogram (EMG) or muscle biopsy. Weakness can often be addressed by reducing the glucocorticoid dose and following the patient over the next 3 to 4 weeks to assess for gains in strength. Colchicine and hydroxychloroquine are also implicated as a cause of drug-induced myopathy. Statins are a frequent cause of myalgia and/or asymptomatic serum creatine kinase elevations and, rarely, statin use can result in an immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy associated with antibodies to the enzyme HMG-CoA reductase.
An EMG could potentially reveal findings of low amplitude motor unit potentials or be normal in glucocorticoid myopathy. However, the initial clinical improvement and reduction in the muscle enzymes with reduction in glucocorticoid dose most strongly suggest drug-induced myopathy, and an EMG in this situation is unlikely to provide helpful results.
In glucocorticoid-induced myopathy, nonspecific atrophy of type IIb fibers without necrosis or inflammation can be seen that would help substantiate the diagnosis. However, muscle biopsy is an invasive procedure that is not indicated in a patient in whom initial clinical improvement and normalization of muscle enzyme levels has occurred, suggesting the diagnosis of glucocorticoid-induced myopathy.
Immunosuppressive therapy with azathioprine is used for glucocorticoid-resistant disease or glucocorticoid sparing. Reducing the azathioprine dose is not likely to be of diagnostic or therapeutic benefit because proximal muscle weakness is not an adverse effect of azathioprine.

**Bibliography**

Fasano S, Alves SC, Isenberg DA. Current pharmacological treatment of idiopathic inflammatory myopathies. Expert Rev Clin Pharmacol. 2016:1-12. PMID: 26708717

This content was last updated in August 2018.