
### Correct Answer: E) Takayasu arteritis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Takayasu arteritis.

#### **Key Point:** Takayasu arteritis is a rare chronic granulomatous vasculitis seen in young Asian women that mainly affects the aorta and its major branches as well as the coronary and pulmonary arteries, resulting in claudication, cardiac ischemia, aortic or mitral regurgitation, aortic dissection, and renal artery stenosis.

The most likely diagnosis is Takayasu arteritis, a rare granulomatous large-vessel vasculitis affecting the aorta and its major branches and pulmonary arteries. This disease predominantly affects females typically less than age 30 years and of Asian ancestry. Aneurysms and stenoses of large arteries cause symptoms of claudication in the extremities, discrepancies in blood pressure between the arms, and reduced pulses. Involvement of the aorta can lead to aortic insufficiency and heart failure. This rare complication is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with Takayasu arteritis. This patient has upper extremity claudication, reduced radial pulse, evidence of inflammation (elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, anemia) and new-onset aortic insufficiency with dilated aortic root, all consistent with the diagnosis of Takayasu arteritis.
Giant cell arteritis (GCA) is a large-vessel granulomatous vasculitis that can also affect the great vessels of the chest, leading to a similar presentation, but is unlikely given this patient's young age; GCA affects individuals over age 50 years.
IgA vasculitis is a small-vessel vasculitis mediated by immune complexes predominantly containing IgA. It does not involve the large vessels and almost always causes a rash, not seen in this patient.
Kawasaki disease is a medium-vessel vasculitis that begins in childhood, manifesting with a rash and other mucocutaneous findings. It can affect coronary vessels, leading to cardiac complications such as heart failure. This patient developed initial symptoms as an adult, and has no rash, making Kawasaki disease an unlikely diagnosis.
Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a medium-vessel vasculitis that can affect multiple organ systems. Cardiac involvement as well as large-vessel involvement is not a typical manifestation of PAN, making this diagnosis unlikely.

**Bibliography**

de Souza AW, de Carvalho JF. Diagnostic and classification criteria of Takayasu arteritis. J Autoimmun. 2014;48-49:79-83. PMID: 24461381 doi:10.1016/j.jaut.2014.01.012

This content was last updated in August 2018.