
### Correct Answer: A) Folic acid 

**Educational Objective:** Initiate folic acid in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis who is starting methotrexate.

#### **Key Point:** Folic acid supplementation should be initiated in patients beginning therapy with methotrexate to reduce the risk of side effects and discontinuation of methotrexate.

In addition to methotrexate, folic acid, 1 mg/d, should be initiated in this patient with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). RA is characterized by a chronic inflammatory polyarthritis affecting large and small joints with a predilection for the small joints of the hands and feet. Patients with RA typically report joint pain and inflammatory symptoms, including swelling and morning stiffness often lasting several hours. Joint swelling (softness or bogginess of the affected joint) is palpable on joint examination. Glucocorticoids, such as prednisone, act rapidly to control inflammation and joint symptoms, and can be useful until slower-acting disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) achieve full effect. DMARD treatment typically begins with weekly administration of methotrexate, which is the anchor drug in RA and is used in both monotherapy and combination therapy. Daily folic acid supplementation with 1 mg (or weekly folinic acid supplementation) has been found to reduce the mucosal, hematologic, hepatic, and gastrointestinal side effects of methotrexate. Folic acid supplementation also reduces discontinuation of methotrexate for any reason. Methotrexate blocks the cellular utilization of folic acid, and folate depletion is considered to be the cause of most of the side effects associated with methotrexate therapy. Supplementation with folic acid reduces the incidence of side effects without any loss of methotrexate efficacy in treating RA. Folic acid can be taken on the same day as methotrexate because folic acid and methotrexate enter the cell via different pathways. Folinic acid is the reduced form of folate and is typically reserved for patients who have not had a satisfactory response to folic acid. Folinic acid is considerably more expensive than folic acid, and proper timing and administration of folinic acid is complex.
Niacin, thiamine, and vitamin C have no known utility in treating RA or preventing methotrexate side effects.

**Bibliography**

Shea B, Swinden MV, Ghogomu ET, Ortiz Z, Katchamart W, Rader T, et al. Folic acid and folinic acid for reducing side effects in patients receiving methotrexate for rheumatoid arthritis. J Rheumatol. 2014;41:1049-60. PMID: 24737913 doi:10.3899/jrheum.130738

This content was last updated in August 2018.