
### Correct Answer: E) No further testing 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Löfgren syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** The presence of acute arthritis, bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy, and erythema nodosum is 95% specific for Löfgren syndrome.

No further testing is necessary. This patient has a triad of bihilar adenopathy, arthritis, and erythema nodosum, consistent with Löfgren syndrome, a common rheumatologic manifestation of sarcoidosis. Diagnostic specificity for sarcoidosis is 95% when all three parts of the triad are present, thus making further testing unnecessary. The most common joints involved are ankles, followed by knees and wrists. Löfgren syndrome has a good prognosis with disease remission within 2 to 16 weeks.
Biopsy of a hilar lymph node demonstrating noncaseating granulomas consistent with the diagnosis of sarcoidosis is unnecessary in this patient who clinically has Löfgren syndrome.
Biopsy of a shin lesion will demonstrate septal panniculitis without primary vasculitis that is consistent with erythema nodosum. The diagnosis of erythema nodosum is usually clinical, but biopsy may be helpful in patients with atypical presentations, such as lesions located in areas other than the anterior shins. In this case, biopsy will not add any further useful information.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic autoimmune disorder that typically presents as a symmetric inflammatory polyarthritis. Characteristically affected joints include the proximal interphalangeal and metacarpophalangeal joints of the hands and feet and the wrists, but other joints can also be involved. Rheumatoid factor is ordered as part of the evaluation of RA but is unnecessary in a patient with acute arthritis, erythema nodosum, and hilar lymphadenopathy.
Synovial fluid analysis is likely to demonstrate inflammation but is not specific for sarcoidosis versus other rheumatologic diseases. Joint infection is unlikely in this patient with multiple swollen joints, rather than a single joint, and the presence of other findings specific for Löfgren syndrome.

**Bibliography**

O’Regan A, Berman JS. Sarcoidosis. Ann Intern Med. 2012;156:ITC5-1, ITC5-2, ITC5-3, ITC5-4, ITC5-5, ITC5-6, ITC5-7, ITC5-8, ITC5-9, ITC5-10, ITC5-11, ITC5-12, ITC5-13, ITC5-14, ITC5-15; quiz ITC5-16. PMID: 22547486

This content was last updated in August 2018.