
### Correct Answer: D) Skin biopsy with immunofluorescence 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose IgA vasculitis.

#### **Key Point:** The classic triad for IgA vasculitis (Henoch-Schönlein purpura) is purpura, abdominal pain, and arthralgia; diagnosis is established with biopsy of the affected organ.

Skin biopsy with immunofluorescence is appropriate in this patient with purpura, abdominal pain, and arthralgia, which is the classic triad for IgA vasculitis (Henoch-Schönlein purpura). IgA vasculitis is the most common childhood vasculitis (incidence, 20/100,000) and tends to appear after upper respiratory infections. IgA vasculitis is rarer among adults. IgA vasculitis is an IgA immune complex–mediated small-vessel vasculitis that almost always affects the skin but frequently affects the bowel, leading to pain, bleeding, and occasionally intussusception; less commonly, it affects the kidneys and rarely causes pulmonary hemorrhage. Biopsy of the most accessible affected organ, in this case the skin, will establish the diagnosis by demonstrating leukocytoclastic vasculitis with predominance of IgA deposits on immunofluorescence. Furthermore, skin biopsy is easily obtainable and does not expose the patient to radiation or contrast agents or the risks of kidney biopsy. Kidney biopsy is reserved for patients in whom the diagnosis is uncertain or if there is clinical evidence of severe kidney involvement. Biopsy findings are characterized by IgA deposition in the mesangium on immunofluorescence microscopy that is identical to that in IgA nephropathy.
Mesenteric angiography may demonstrate reduced blood flow and possibly irregularities in small vessels consistent with vasculitis, but it will not establish the specific diagnosis of IgA-mediated vasculitis. With the exception of angiography, radiologic testing is not specific for vasculitis; the features of IgA vasculitis in the bowel such as edema from inflammation or poor blood supply may occur in other conditions such as infectious enterocolitis, inflammatory bowel disease, or ischemic bowel disease.
The diagnosis of IgA vasculitis is based on the clinical picture in both children and adults. Laboratory studies are nonspecific but confirm systemic inflammation. IgA levels are sometimes elevated in IgA vasculitis but are not sensitive or specific enough to establish the diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Audemard-Verger A, Pillebout E, Guillevin L, Thervet E, Terrier B. IgA vasculitis (Henoch-Shönlein purpura) in adults: Diagnostic and therapeutic aspects. Autoimmun Rev. 2015;14:579-85. PMID: 25688001 doi:10.1016/j.autrev.2015.02.003

This content was last updated in August 2018.