
### Correct Answer: D) Order HLA-B*5801 allele testing 

**Educational Objective:** Screen for the HLA-B*5801 allele in a patient at high risk for allopurinol hypersensitivity.

#### **Key Point:** Risk factors for allopurinol sensitivity include diuretic use, chronic kidney disease, and the presence of the HLA-B*5801 allele in certain Asian ethnic groups.

HLA-B*5801 allele testing is the most appropriate next step in management. This patient with gout is at high risk for allopurinol sensitivity. His risk factors include ethnicity (Thai descent) and chronic kidney disease. Patients of Thai, Han Chinese, and Korean descent have a higher likelihood of having the HLA-B*5801 allele, which confers a high risk for allopurinol sensitivity. Diuretic use is also a risk factor for allopurinol sensitivity. Allopurinol hypersensitivity is characterized by DRESS (drug reaction, eosinophilia, and systemic symptoms) syndrome and can result in kidney failure and death; allopurinol should be discontinued at the first sign of a rash. The presence of the HLA-B*5801 allele is a contraindication to prescribing allopurinol; therefore, this patient should be screened before beginning urate-lowering therapy.
The absence of the HLA-B*5801 allele does not guarantee protection against allopurinol hypersensitivity. Febuxostat is a nonpurine, noncompetitive xanthine oxidase inhibitor that is an option for patients with mild to moderate chronic kidney disease and can be tried after an adverse reaction or failure with allopurinol. Importantly, in February 2019, the FDA mandated a boxed warning for febuxostat regarding the increased risk for cardiovascular death and all-cause mortality with the drug. The FDA has also limited the approved use of febuxostat for patients who are unresponsive to or cannot tolerate allopurinol.
Probenecid should be avoided in patients with chronic kidney disease, as the drug requires intact kidney function.
There is no suggestion of an antinuclear antibody (ANA)-related disease such as systemic lupus erythematosus, and testing for ANA should not be performed in patients with low pretest probability of disease. The presence of ANA does not correlate with the risk for drug hypersensitivity. Therefore, there is no indication for ANA testing.

**Bibliography**

Saokaew S, Tassaneeyakul W, Maenthaisong R, Chaiyakunapruk N. Cost-effectiveness analysis of HLA-B*5801 testing in preventing allopurinol-induced SJS/TEN in Thai population. PLoS One. 2014;9:e94294. PMID: 24732692 doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0094294

This content was last updated in May 2019.