
### Correct Answer: C) Spondyloarthritis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose spondyloarthritis in a patient with enthesitis.

#### **Key Point:** Enthesitis is highly suggestive of spondyloarthritis; when particularly severe, the inflammation may extend along the associated tendon and local ligaments, resulting in dactylitis (“sausage digits”).

Spondyloarthritis is the most likely diagnosis in this patient with enthesitis. Spondyloarthritis refers to a group of disorders that share an overlapping set of features, including inflammation of the axial skeleton, tendons, and entheses (insertion of tendon to bone); tendon and enthesis calcification; an association with HLA-B27; and mucocutaneous, gastrointestinal, and ocular inflammation. The four disorders of spondyloarthritis are ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease–associated arthritis, and reactive arthritis. The enthesis is a complex structure at the site of insertion of a tendon or ligament onto the bone. Inflammation of the enthesis (enthesitis) is highly suggestive of spondyloarthritis. When enthesitis is particularly severe, the inflammation may extend along the associated tendon and local ligaments, resulting in dactylitis (“sausage digits”). This patient has dactylitis, with diffuse inflammatory swelling of multiple digits, making spondyloarthritis the likely cause of this patient's presentation.
Infectious arthritis typically presents with pain, swelling, warmth, and erythema of a single joint, accompanied by fever and constitutional symptoms, and is not associated with enthesitis/dactylitis.
Rheumatoid arthritis is characterized by a chronic inflammatory polyarthritis affecting large and small joints with a predilection for the small joints of the hands and feet and is not associated with enthesitis/dactylitis.
System lupus erythematosus (SLE) should be considered in any patient who presents with unexplained multisystem disease. The most common early SLE manifestations include constitutional symptoms (fever, weight loss, or severe fatigue), arthralgia/arthritis, and skin disease. Joint involvement occurs in 90% of patients with SLE, with inflammatory polyarthralgia the most common presentation. SLE is unlikely due to the lack of rash or other clinical features; furthermore, it is not associated with enthesitis/dactylitis.

**Bibliography**

Ehrenfeld M. Spondyloarthropathies. Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol. 2012;26:135-45. PMID: 22424199 doi:10.1016/j.berh.2012.01.002

This content was last updated in August 2018.