
### Correct Answer: D) Tuberculous vertebral osteomyelitis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose tuberculous vertebral osteomyelitis.

#### **Key Point:** In tuberculous vertebral osteomyelitis, the lower thoracic spine is the most frequently involved segment; common symptoms are back pain, fever, weight loss, and neurologic abnormalities.

The most likely diagnosis is tuberculous vertebral osteomyelitis (Pott's disease), the most common form of skeletal tuberculosis. Skeletal tuberculosis accounts for 10% to 35% of cases of extrapulmonary tuberculosis. Spinal involvement usually results from the hematogenous spread of Mycobacterium tuberculosis into the cancellous bone tissue of the vertebral bodies, from a primary pulmonary focus or extrapulmonary foci such as the lymph nodes. Predisposing factors for skeletal tuberculosis include previous tuberculosis infection, malnutrition, alcoholism, diabetes mellitus, and HIV infection. Delays in diagnosis are common because the onset of symptoms is insidious, and disease progression is slow. The duration of symptoms prior to diagnosis may range from weeks to years. The lower thoracic spine is the most frequently involved segment; common symptoms are back pain, fever, weight loss, and neurologic abnormalities. Paraplegia is the most devastating complication. Diagnosis is suggested by typical clinical presentation, along with evidence of past exposure to tuberculosis or concomitant visceral tuberculosis, and findings on neuroimaging modalities. Bone tissue or abscess samples from needle or surgical biopsy stained for acid-fast bacilli and/or positive cultures are most helpful in diagnosis.
Herniated intervertebral disk usually occurs in the lower lumbar spine (at L4-5 or L5-S1 levels) and typically causes pain and sometimes sensory symptoms radiating down the leg(s). This patient's constitutional symptoms of chills, weight loss, and low-grade fever, as well as image findings of erosion in the vertebral body and paravertebral swelling, are not consistent with herniated intervertebral disk.
Multiple myeloma is the most common primary malignant neoplasm of the skeletal system, and the vertebral column is a commonly affected site. The classic radiographic appearance includes multiple, small, well-circumscribed, lytic, punched-out, round lesions that can be found in the skull, pelvis, and spine on skeletal survey, not erosive changes as seen in this patient.
Osteoporosis with vertebral compression fracture may cause severe back pain and the thoracolumbar area is a common site, but patients do not typically experience neurologic or constitutional symptoms. Erosive changes with surrounding fusiform paravertebral swelling suggest another diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Garg RK, Somvanshi DS. Spinal tuberculosis: a review. J Spinal Cord Med. 2011;34:440-54. PMID: 22118251 doi:10.1179/2045772311Y.0000000023

This content was last updated in August 2018.