
### Correct Answer: A) Anakinra 

**Educational Objective:** Treat refractory acute gout.

#### **Key Point:** For patients with severe and refractory gouty attacks or with contraindications to other treatments, off-label use of interleukin-1 inhibitors (anakinra or canakinumab) can be considered.

Anakinra is the most appropriate treatment for this patient's knee. He has a persistent fever due to a severe acute gouty attack. Synovial fluid analysis permits definitive diagnosis and can rule out other conditions. Under polarized light, monosodium urate crystals are needle shaped and negatively birefringent. Whereas extracellular crystals confirm a chronic gout diagnosis, crystals within neutrophils define active, gout-induced inflammation. Even in the setting of acute gout, Gram stain and cultures must be obtained to exclude infection because acute gout and joint infection occasionally coexist. This patient has not responded favorably to glucocorticoid therapy, which characterizes some severe acute episodes. In a case such as this, an interleukin-1 inhibitor such as anakinra should be provided as a reliable (although expensive) off-label treatment.
Colchicine is unlikely to be effective for an established attack of greater than 12 to 24 hours' duration. It is also unlikely to be useful when intravenous and intra-articular glucocorticoids have been ineffective.
The absence of a response to intra-articular or intravenous glucocorticoids necessitates an alternative treatment; however, NSAIDs would not be as effective as the two previously provided failed alternatives. Additionally, NSAIDs have numerous side effects that might be even more likely to occur during critical illness, and they are relatively contraindicated in a patient with heart failure.
Blood, urine, and synovial fluid cultures have all been negative, the pneumonia is resolving, and there is no clinical evidence of infection. Vancomycin for methicillin-resistant staphylococcus is unnecessary.

**Bibliography**

Thueringer JT, Doll NK, Gertner E. Anakinra for the treatment of acute severe gout in critically ill patients. Semin Arthritis Rheum. 2015;45:81-5. PMID: 25795473 doi:10.1016/j.semarthrit.2015.02.006

This content was last updated in August 2018.