
### Correct Answer: E) Mycophenolate mofetil 

**Educational Objective:** Treat class V (membranous) lupus nephritis.

#### **Key Point:** Mycophenolate mofetil is the most appropriate initial immunosuppressive therapy in the treatment of isolated class V lupus nephritis, especially without kidney dysfunction.

Mycophenolate mofetil is the most appropriate treatment of this patient's kidney disease. Classification of lupus nephritis is based on findings by light microscopy, electron microscopy, and immunofluorescence. This patient with recently diagnosed systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) now presents with proteinuria likely due to lupus nephritis (likely class V, membranous). Guidelines recommend aggressive therapy with immunosuppressives for significant kidney involvement. A number of immunosuppressive therapies are beneficial in the treatment of SLE nephritis, including mycophenolate mofetil, cyclophosphamide, azathioprine, and rituximab. In the treatment of isolated class V lupus nephritis, especially without kidney dysfunction, mycophenolate mofetil is the most appropriate initial immunosuppressive therapy based on the guideline recommendations. Importantly, mycophenolate mofetil is teratogenic and has been associated with fetal harm and death; it must be stopped 3 months before a planned pregnancy.
Adalimumab has not been shown to be effective in lupus nephritis and may potentially worsen the disease based on animal data.
Belimumab may be considered in patients with continued SLE activity after standard therapy has been tried and found to be ineffective. Its role in the treatment of lupus nephritis continues to evolve but is currently not well defined. Its use in this patient should not be considered before having tried standard therapy.
Cyclophosphamide may be considered in this patient and used appropriately in patients with lupus nephritis but is not an appropriate first choice due to a higher rate of side effects compared with mycophenolate mofetil, as well as its effect on reducing fertility and premature menopause. Cyclophosphamide is typically reserved for severe active nephritis to induce remission, followed by mycophenolate mofetil or possibly azathioprine as maintenance therapy.
Methotrexate is not effective in lupus nephritis and may be associated with toxicity in a patient with kidney disease.

**Bibliography**

Hahn BH, McMahon MA, Wilkinson A, Wallace WD, Daikh DI, Fitzgerald JD, et al; American College of Rheumatology. American College of Rheumatology guidelines for screening, treatment, and management of lupus nephritis. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken). 2012;64:797-808. PMID: 22556106 doi:10.1002/acr.21664

This content was last updated in August 2018.