
### Correct Answer: C) Infliximab 

**Educational Objective:** Treat psoriatic arthritis.

#### **Key Point:** In recalcitrant psoriatic arthritis, the combination of methotrexate and a tumor necrosis factor α inhibitor has shown efficacy in managing joint symptoms and slowing the progression of radiographic damage, including joint space narrowing and erosions.

The most appropriate medication to add to this patient's treatment regimen is a tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α inhibitor such as infliximab. In patients with psoriatic arthritis who have uncontrolled disease while taking methotrexate at a dose of 25 mg weekly, the addition of a TNF-α inhibitor is indicated. Randomized controlled trials have established the efficacy of the combination of methotrexate and TNF-α inhibitors for reducing symptoms, restoring function, and limiting joint damage. Other biologics shown to be effective include ustekinumab and secukinumab.
Abatacept is a biologic disease-modifying agent that targets the T-cell costimulation pathway and is used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. A single randomized controlled trial has shown that abatacept could be efficacious in psoriatic arthritis. However, in a patient with psoriatic arthritis in whom a TNF-α inhibitor has not been used, abatacept is not the appropriate next choice in management due to limited experience in these patients.
Hydroxychloroquine is a long-acting anti-inflammatory medication that interferes with the innate immune system inflammatory response and is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and dermatomyositis. It has been reported to be associated with an increased incidence of severe cutaneous reactions in psoriasis and is not the best choice.
Rituximab is a monoclonal antibody that targets CD20+ B cells used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, vasculitis, and various malignancies. It has not been used in the treatment of psoriatic arthritis.

**Bibliography**

Elyoussfi S, Thomas BJ, Ciurtin C. Tailored treatment options for patients with psoriatic arthritis and psoriasis: review of established and new biologic and small molecule therapies. Rheumatol Int. 2016;36:603-12. PMID: 26892034 doi:10.1007/s00296-016-3436-0

This content was last updated in August 2018.