
### Correct Answer: A) Diclofenac 

**Educational Objective:** Treat ankylosing spondylitis with NSAIDs.

#### **Key Point:** Continuous full-dose NSAIDs are first-line therapy for ankylosing spondylitis.

The most appropriate treatment is an NSAID such as diclofenac for this patient with ankylosing spondylitis, a chronic inflammatory disease affecting the axial skeleton (including sacroiliac joints), entheses, and peripheral joints. It has a strong familial predilection, the strongest association with HLA-B27 among the forms of spondyloarthritis, and a male predominance. This man's history is suggestive of ankylosing spondylitis, with symptoms of inflammatory back pain, the presence of HLA-B27, a family history of ankylosing spondylitis, and a change in his exercise routine. He is early in the course of his disease and has not developed plain radiographic or laboratory abnormalities. Continuous full-dose NSAIDs are first-line therapy and can help relieve pain and stiffness. Studies of continuous full-dose NSAIDs demonstrate symptomatic relief as well as reduced sacroiliac and spine inflammation as seen on MRI in some patients. In a young man with no medical comorbidities, they are associated with a low incidence of side effects. Patients with ankylosing spondylitis are more likely to respond to NSAIDs and do so more rapidly and completely than patients with chronic low back pain from other causes.
Results from most randomized controlled trials of methotrexate use in ankylosing spondylitis have shown no benefit, and it is therefore not appropriate in this patient.
A considerable amount of more recent data suggests that tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α inhibitors can be particularly helpful in the management of symptoms of ankylosing spondylitis. However, NSAIDs remain first-line therapy. There is variability in the expression of disease, and some patients can be managed with complete symptom relief without immunosuppression. The efficacy of TNF-α inhibitors for symptom relief needs to be weighed against their cost, potential side effects, and the fact that these agents have not been definitively established to be disease modifying.
Sulfasalazine has historically been used in the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis, but its use as second-line therapy has declined as more effective agents, such as TNF-α inhibitors, have emerged. This patient's primary site of involvement is the spine, and many experts now relegate the use of sulfasalazine for treatment of the peripheral arthritis associated with ankylosing spondylitis and only if NSAIDs are ineffective and a TNF-α inhibitor is not available or affordable.

**Bibliography**

Taurog JD, Chhabra A, Colbert RA. Ankylosing Spondylitis and Axial Spondyloarthritis. N Engl J Med. 2016;374:2563-74. PMID: 27355535 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1406182

This content was last updated in August 2018.