
### Correct Answer: A) Acute cutaneous lupus erythematosus 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose acute cutaneous lupus erythematosus.

#### **Key Point:** The malar (butterfly) rash of acute cutaneous lupus erythematosus (ACLE) consists of bright erythematous patches over both cheeks and the nasal bridge, almost always sparing the nasolabial folds; essentially all patients with ACLE have or will develop systemic lupus erythematosus.

This patient has acute cutaneous lupus erythematosus (ACLE) and most likely has systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The cutaneous manifestations of SLE are essential to recognize because skin findings are key diagnostic criteria. Because the subtypes of SLE are important to distinguish, the dermatologic examination is crucial. The malar (butterfly) rash of ACLE consists of bright erythematous patches over both cheeks and the nasal bridge, almost always sparing the nasolabial folds (in contrast to the more violaceous facial erythema of dermatomyositis, which often involves that crease). The malar rash of ACLE can occur simultaneously with other findings of SLE or may precede other symptoms of SLE by months or years. The rash can last a variable length of time from hours to weeks and typically recurs or worsens with sun exposure. Essentially all patients with ACLE have or will develop SLE; therefore, all patients should receive a thorough evaluation for systemic involvement.
Erysipelas is a superficial cellulitis involving the lymphatics that often presents as a violaceous-red, edematous, well-demarcated plaque on the face or lower extremities secondary to group A streptococci. Patients are extremely uncomfortable and often have systemic symptoms such as fever and malaise. When on the face, the presentation of erysipelas is not symmetrically distributed as it is with ACLE.
Rosacea often has inflammatory papules, small pustules, and telangiectasias, and tends to involve the nasolabial folds. These manifestations are rare to absent in SLE.
Seborrheic dermatitis is often characterized by a greasy scale and tends to involve the nasolabial folds, eyebrows, and scalp. None of these manifestations is present in this patient.
A less widely known subtype of cutaneous lupus is subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus. The typical clinical eruption consists of circular or polycyclic scaly erythematous patches and papulosquamous plaques over the forearms, chest, or especially the upper back, in a V-shaped configuration. This pattern in not present in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Okon LG, Werth VP. Cutaneous lupus erythematosus: diagnosis and treatment. Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol. 2013;27:391-404. PMID: 24238695 doi:10.1016/j.berh.2013.07.008

This content was last updated in August 2018.