
### Correct Answer: B) Flexion/extension radiography of the cervical spine 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose C1-C2 subluxation in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with long-standing rheumatoid arthritis are at risk for developing C1-C2 subluxation; symptoms include a sensation of the head falling off, drop attacks, and painless paresthesia of the hands and feet.

The most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next is radiography of the cervical spine with flexion/extension views. Patients with long-standing (generally 10 years or more) rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are at risk of developing C1-C2 subluxation. Inflammation from RA can lead to attenuation of the transverse ligament that normally limits the posterior motion of the odontoid process of the C2 vertebrae. Instability around the odontoid can impinge upon posterior structures, including the spinal cord and vertebral arteries. Common symptoms include a sensation of the head falling off, drop attacks, and painless paresthesia of the hands and feet; rarely, sudden death can occur. Initial imaging should be radiography of the cervical spine with flexion/extension views; if results are abnormal, MRI should then be performed. Consideration of surgery is necessary for patients with significant subluxation, especially if symptomatic. Patients with long-standing RA undergoing general anesthesia for any kind of surgery should have cervical spine radiography with flexion/extension views to assess for atlantoaxial subluxation, which can lead to neurologic compromise when the neck is extended during intubation.
Electromyography is the primary test used to diagnose lower motor neuron conditions such as focal neuropathies, polyneuropathies, motor neuron diseases, and myopathy. Nerve conduction studies are used to assess peripheral nerve system function and can classify peripheral nerve conduction abnormalities due to axonal degeneration, demyelination, and conduction block. In most clinical situations involving peripheral nerve or muscle disease, nerve conduction studies and electromyography are performed and interpreted at the same time. Electrodiagnostic studies are not helpful in a myelopathy as seen with C1-C2 subluxation.
The neurologic symptoms associated with vitamin B12 deficiency typically include paresthesia and ataxia, more often in the lower extremities. This patient has intermittent symptoms and no evidence of a peripheral neuropathy on examination. A normal complete blood count makes vitamin B12 deficiency less likely, although neurologic complications may occur without hematologic manifestations of deficiency.
Hypothyroidism can cause distal peripheral neuropathy (which is often painful) and carpal tunnel syndrome. The lack of painful paresthesias and a normal neurologic examination make hypothyroidism neuropathy an unlikely diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Del Grande M, Del Grande F, Carrino J, Bingham CO 3rd, Louie GH. Cervical spine involvement early in the course of rheumatoid arthritis. Semin Arthritis Rheum. 2014;43:738-44. PMID: 24444595 doi:10.1016/j.semarthrit.2013.12.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.