
### Correct Answer: B) Neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus.

#### **Key Point:** Neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus prevalence is high in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus, with the most common manifestations being headache, mild cognitive dysfunction, and mood disorder; severe acute presentations, including seizures and psychosis, occur infrequently.

Neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus (NPSLE) is the most likely diagnosis in this patient with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). NPSLE prevalence is high in patients with SLE (75%) and may involve central and/or peripheral nervous systems, with the most common manifestations being headache, mild cognitive dysfunction, and mood disorder. Acute presentations, including seizures and psychosis, happen infrequently (<5%) but require aggressive symptomatic as well as disease-specific treatment. This patient has no sensory or motor deficits and presents with confusion, along with a nonfocal neurologic examination. She also shows signs of active SLE disease, including clinical evidence (fatigue, rash, arthritis) and laboratory findings (low complements and a high erythrocyte sedimentation rate). She has elevated protein in the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF), and radiologic studies show diffuse white matter changes. These findings suggest that NPSLE is the likely cause for the mental status changes/psychosis and aseptic meningitis.
This patient does not have acute bacterial meningitis because she lacks fever (seen in >75% of patients) and neck stiffness, and she has a normal cell count and glucose on CSF.
This patient's clinical presentation is not suggestive of seizures: she is alert and awake without involuntary movements, is following commands, and has no findings suggestive of ongoing seizure/status epilepticus.
Steroid-induced psychosis is seen in patients taking high doses of glucocorticoids (usually >1 mg/kg/d) and is very unusual at doses less than 20 mg/d. This patient's dose is only 5 mg/d, making steroid-induced psychosis unlikely.

**Bibliography**

Popescu A, Kao AH. Neuropsychiatric systemic lupus erythematosus. Curr Neuropharmacol. 2011;9:449-57. PMID: 22379459 doi:10.2174/157015911796557984

This content was last updated in August 2018.