
### Correct Answer: B) Coronary artery aneurysm 

**Educational Objective:** Predict long-term prognosis of Kawasaki disease.

#### **Key Point:** Persistent coronary artery aneurysm conveys the greatest risk for long-term cardiovascular events in survivors of childhood Kawasaki disease.

A history of coronary artery aneurysm is the most important disease complication determining the patient's need for extensive evaluation and his long-term prognosis. Kawasaki disease (KD) is a medium-vessel vasculitis that affects children and is very rare in adults. KD presents as fever, rash, cervical lymphadenopathy, prominent nonexudative conjunctivitis, and oral mucosal and lip changes. Coronary vessel vasculitis, aneurysm formation, and other cardiac complications (such as heart failure, pericarditis, and arrhythmias) may develop. Up to 25% of untreated patients develop coronary artery aneurysms as long-term sequelae of KD; intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) treatment reduces the incidence of aneurysms, but 10% to 20% of patients do not respond. Estimates indicate that 4% to 8% of patients treated with IVIG will develop aneurysms. Thrombosis or stenosis of these aneurysms can lead to ischemia and myocardial infarction. It is important to identify and follow patients at risk for long-term cardiac complications of KD, because they may require preventive therapy with aspirin or other antithrombotic medications. With the exception of the complications related to the coronary arteries, most patients with KD completely recover from multisystem acute inflammation. Patients without abnormalities need no specific cardiology surveillance, but those with persistent coronary aneurysm may require periodic electrocardiography, echocardiography, and/or coronary artery imaging as part of a long-term surveillance program.
Recommendations about the nature and frequency of continued surveillance of patients recovering from KD, as well as physical activity restrictions, are provided by the American Heart Association and are based upon the coronary artery status of the patient. In the absence of coronary aneurysm, the available data suggest that the risk for coronary artery disease is low. For example, a large cohort study showed that among patients with KD, 5% had persistent coronary aneurysm, and long-term adverse cardiovascular events occurred in 8% with persistent coronary aneurysm versus 0% without persistent aneurysm. However, the nature and frequency of long-term surveillance are still unclear. An ongoing cohort study of Japanese children with a history of KD growing into adulthood will better inform the medical community on the best long-term surveillance and management plan.
A past history of bundle branch block, myocarditis, or pericarditis does not appear to be associated with the same risk for long-term cardiovascular events as does the presence of coronary aneurysm.

**Bibliography**

McCrindle BW, Rowley AH, Newburger JW, et al. Diagnosis, Treatment, and Long-Term Management of Kawasaki Disease: A Scientific Statement for Health Professionals From the American Heart Association. Circulation. 2017;135:e927-e999. PMID: 28356445 doi:10.1161/CIR.0000000000000484

This content was last updated in August 2018.