
### Correct Answer: C) Recommend weight loss 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent osteoarthritis with weight loss.

#### **Key Point:** Obesity is the strongest modifiable risk factor for osteoarthritis incidence; weight loss can lower the risk for developing the disease.

Recommending weight loss in order to lower the likelihood that she will develop osteoarthritis (OA) is the most appropriate choice. Obesity is the strongest modifiable risk factor for OA incidence. Multiple studies have shown that higher BMI categories have proportionally higher risk of developing radiographic and symptomatic knee OA. A recent randomized clinical trial showed that a reduction of ≥5 kg or 5% of body weight over a 30-month period reduces the risk for the onset of radiographic knee OA in middle-aged overweight and obese women. Another recent study of obese and overweight patients found that subjects who lost weight over 48 months showed significantly lower knee cartilage degeneration, as assessed with MRI, compared with those whose weight was stable.
Chondroitin sulfate supplementation has not been studied to lower the risk for developing incident OA. There are promising but inconclusive data on whether chondroitin sulfate has a salutary effect on the progression of structural changes in established knee OA.
Limited studies have examined the association of vitamin D with incident OA, and available data thus far have not shown that low vitamin D confers a greater risk of incident OA. There is no evidence that vitamin D supplementation reduces the incidence of OA.
Suggesting that running will increase her risk of knee OA is not appropriate. Although not completely conclusive, the medical literature generally supports the idea that running does not contribute to the degeneration of articular cartilage in joints that are neuroanatomically normal. Some studies using advanced MRI techniques showed that moderate exercise in subjects at high risk for OA may be associated with favorable joint composition changes, which could have chondroprotective effects on the knee. Additionally, some studies suggest that quadriceps muscle weakness may be a risk for knee OA incidence. Nonetheless, there is a clear association with knee OA and antecedent knee injury, such as meniscal or cruciate ligament tears, so while stopping running may not be a beneficial recommendation, taking precaution to avoid injury would be prudent.

**Bibliography**

Roos EM, Arden NK. Strategies for the prevention of knee osteoarthritis. Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2016;12:92-101. PMID: 26439406 doi:10.1038/nrrheum.2015.135

This content was last updated in August 2018.