
### Correct Answer: A) Captopril 

**Educational Objective:** Treat scleroderma renal crisis.

#### **Key Point:** Features of scleroderma renal crisis include hypertensive emergency, headache, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, elevated serum creatinine levels, and proteinuria; treatment involves ACE inhibitors, typically captopril.

The most appropriate treatment for this patient with scleroderma renal crisis is the ACE inhibitor captopril. This patient has features of systemic sclerosis (SSc), including a history of Raynaud phenomenon, gastroesophageal reflux disease, and skin changes typical of this disease. She also has features that occur in patients with scleroderma renal crisis, including hypertensive emergency, headache, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (schistocytes on the peripheral blood smear), thrombocytopenia, elevated serum creatinine levels, and proteinuria. Approximately 75% of cases of scleroderma renal crisis occur in the first 4 years of SSc disease onset. Scleroderma renal crisis can be seen in both limited and diffuse forms of SSc but more often in those with rapidly progressive diffuse disease. Anti-RNA polymerase III antibodies serve as a marker for increased risk for scleroderma renal crisis as well as extensive skin disease. The use of ACE inhibitors has dropped the 1-year mortality of scleroderma renal crisis from 76% to 15%. The mechanism of action of ACE inhibitors is believed to be mitigation of the effect of interstitial fibrosis and vascular dysfunction in the glomerular arterial bed. Treatment with an ACE inhibitor (typically captopril) should be initiated promptly in SSc patients with even mild hypertension or otherwise unexplained elevations in serum creatinine levels or acute kidney injury. Angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) are an alternative for patients who cannot take ACE inhibitors, although ARBs are less effective for managing scleroderma renal crisis.
Cyclophosphamide is an immunosuppressive agent and not effective in scleroderma renal crisis.
Glucocorticoids, such as methylprednisolone, are implicated as potential risk factors for the development of scleroderma renal crisis and are not indicated for this patient.
In patients with hypertensive emergency, blood pressure must be lowered quickly with short-acting intravenous antihypertensive infusions to limit end-organ damage. Intravenous nitroprusside is often a first choice for patients with hypertensive emergencies. It can be titrated quickly to achieve blood pressure control. However, it does nothing to address the underlying physiological cause of scleroderma renal crisis and is inferior to ACE inhibitors on reducing mortality.

**Bibliography**

Woodworth TG, Suliman YA, Furst DE, Clements P. Scleroderma renal crisis and renal involvement in systemic sclerosis. Nat Rev Nephrol. 2016;12:678-691. PMID: 27641135 doi:10.1038/nrneph.2016.124

This content was last updated in August 2018.