
### Correct Answer: C) Initiate methotrexate 

**Educational Objective:** Treat early rheumatoid arthritis with methotrexate.

#### **Key Point:** In rheumatoid arthritis, methotrexate is an anchor drug and is the preferred initial monotherapy.

The most appropriate treatment at this time is methotrexate. This patient has early rheumatoid arthritis (RA) with moderate disease activity measured by the clinical disease activity index (CDAI). Methotrexate is an anchor drug in RA and is the preferred initial monotherapy, as it both controls symptoms and prevents joint damage. Clinical trials have demonstrated that 30% to 50% of patients treated with methotrexate monotherapy will show no disease progression as measured by hand and foot radiographs. Close dose titration (up to as high as 25 mg per week) based on her CDAI score is necessary, as is monitoring for the development of joint damage by radiography or ultrasonography. Ultrasonography is capable of identifying erosions earlier than radiography and can identify continued inflammation even in asymptomatic patients with no detectable synovitis on examination. If methotrexate alone does not lead to remission, a second disease-modifying treatment should be added. Methotrexate is highly teratogenic and abortifacient; patients should be tested for pregnancy before initiation, and methotrexate must be discontinued at least 3 months before planned pregnancy.
Prednisone may improve symptoms and is disease modifying in conjunction with methotrexate, but long-term side effects (such as diabetes mellitus and osteoporosis) limit its usefulness as primary therapy in RA. Prednisone is primarily used as short-term therapy for disease flares and for temporary symptom control while waiting for long-term medications to become effective. Prednisone should be used at the lowest effective dose for the shortest period possible.
NSAIDs convey anti-inflammatory, analgesic, and antipyretic effects. As such, ibuprofen may address pain and swelling but is not considered disease modifying and will not slow the progression of disease. The major role for NSAIDs in the treatment of RA is for temporary symptom control while waiting for the effect of disease-modifying treatments such as methotrexate to be realized.
Although first-line therapy for lupus nephritis and potentially useful in systemic sclerosis, mycophenolate mofetil does not have a clearly defined role in the treatment of RA. A clinical trial of mycophenolate mofetil in RA showed no benefit compared with placebo.

**Bibliography**

Singh JA, Saag KG, Bridges SL Jr, Akl EA, Bannuru RR, Sullivan MC, et al. 2015 American College of Rheumatology guideline for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2016;68:1-26. PMID: 26545940 doi:10.1002/art.39480

This content was last updated in October 2021.