
### Correct Answer: C) Plain radiography of the left hip 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose glucocorticoid-induced osteonecrosis.

#### **Key Point:** Plain radiography is the initial radiographic study of choice for osteonecrosis, and MRI is the modality of choice for sensitive evaluation of early disease when plain radiographs are normal.

Plain radiography of the left hip is the most appropriate initial test for this patient with subacute hip pain. She has lupus nephritis that requires treatment with glucocorticoids. Both glucocorticoid treatment and systemic lupus erythematosus are risk factors for osteonecrosis, which causes death of an area of bone due to compromised blood supply. Other common risk factors include prior fracture or radiation exposure, excessive alcohol use, and sickle cell anemia. Osteonecrosis typically affects the ends of long bones, including the femoral head, humeral head, and distal femur. The involved area of bone collapses, often leading to rapidly progressive osteoarthritis. Patients with hip osteonecrosis present with groin pain (that is, true hip pain) occasionally radiating to the buttock, which worsens with ambulation; osteoarthritis can present in the same way, but would not be expected in a 34-year-old patient. Physical findings include reduced range of motion of the hip, altered gait, and pain with weight bearing. Plain radiography is the initial radiographic study of choice, although MRI is the gold standard for diagnosis and may be required if plain radiography is not diagnostic. Early radiographic findings include bone density changes, sclerosis, and, eventually, cyst formation. Subchondral radiolucency producing the “crescent sign” indicates subchondral collapse. End-stage disease is characterized by collapse of the femoral head, joint-space narrowing, and degenerative changes.
Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry is useful to assess bone density in patients on chronic glucocorticoid therapy. Although it may establish the presence of osteoporosis, it cannot determine the cause of pain and has little role in the evaluation of acute symptoms such as hip pain.
MRI is the best method for detecting early bone edema caused by osteonecrosis when plain radiographs are normal. MRI is preferred for diagnostic use in patients with nondiagnostic plain radiographs. However, for end-stage disease, MRI is more expensive than plain radiography, and it may be unnecessary if plain radiography is diagnostic.
Ultrasonography can be used to evaluate for trochanteric bursitis as the cause of lateral hip pain but would not be useful to check for osteonecrosis.

**Bibliography**

Weinstein RS. Glucocorticoid-induced osteonecrosis. Endocrine. 2012;41:183-90. PMID: 22169965 doi:10.1007/s12020-011-9580-0

This content was last updated in August 2018.