
### Correct Answer: A) Perform arthrocentesis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose infectious arthritis.

#### **Key Point:** Arthrocentesis followed by intravenous antibiotics is appropriate for patients with suspected infectious arthritis.

Arthrocentesis followed by intravenous antibiotics is the appropriate next step in management of this immunocompromised patient with suspected infectious arthritis. This patient is immunosuppressed due to both his underlying rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and his medications. Additionally, other than the left knee, it appears that his arthritis is well controlled, raising concern for a cause other than a flare of his RA, including infectious arthritis. The hallmarks of a joint infection are warmth, erythema, pain, and swelling. The typical bacterial infectious arthritis develops over days. Joint infections are commonly limited to a single joint; the knee is the most common site, but the hip, wrist, and ankle are also commonly affected. Fever and rigors may occur but are not universally present (60% of patients); absence of fever therefore does not exclude an infected joint. When infectious arthritis is suspected, the synovial fluid must be aspirated and assessed for leukocyte count, Gram stain, culture, and crystal analysis. Joint aspiration should be performed before initiating antibiotics whenever possible. Infectious arthritis must be expeditiously recognized and treated to prevent joint damage; therefore, intravenous antibiotics should be initiated right after arthrocentesis if the suspicion for infectious arthritis is high, as in this case. A synovial fluid leukocyte count of >50,000/µL (50 × 109/L), and especially ≥100,000/µL (100 × 109/L), strongly suggests an infectious process.
Colchicine is a useful medication for inflammatory arthritis caused by crystals composed of monosodium urate or calcium pyrophosphate. The lack of response to naproxen suggests that crystal-associated arthritis is an unlikely diagnosis. More importantly, infection must be ruled out with arthrocentesis before colchicine therapy is initiated.
Starting prednisone for a presumed RA flare would not be appropriate until infectious arthritis was ruled out by performing arthrocentesis and analyzing synovial fluid for leukocyte count and cultures. The elevated leukocyte count and erythrocyte sedimentation rate cannot differentiate whether the underlying cause of the patient's arthritis is infection or RA flare.
Adding sulfasalazine to the patient's medication regimen would only be appropriate if his RA was not well controlled (swelling, pain, and tenderness in multiple joints). Single joint involvement is highly suspicious of another diagnosis, particularly infection.

**Bibliography**

Wang DA, Tambyah PA. Septic arthritis in immunocompetent and immunosuppressed hosts. Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol. 2015;29:275-89. PMID: 26362744 doi:10.1016/j.berh.2015.05.008

This content was last updated in August 2018.