
### Correct Answer: E) Hepatitis C antibodies 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose hepatitis C virus–related cryoglobulinemic vasculitis.

#### **Key Point:** Ninety percent of cases of mixed cryoglobulinemia are associated with hepatitis C virus infection; therefore, assessing for hepatitis C virus infection in an individual with cryoglobulinemia is indicated.

Hepatitis C antibody testing is the most appropriate test to perform next in this patient who likely has cryoglobulinemic vasculitis. This patient has a small-vessel vasculitis documented on skin biopsy, along with Raynaud symptoms, arthralgia, sensory neuropathy, and abnormal urinalysis that may represent glomerulonephritis. The presence of cryoglobulins in this setting suggests cryoglobulinemic vasculitis; positive rheumatoid factor and low C4 are characteristic. Ninety percent of cases of mixed cryoglobulinemia are associated with hepatitis C virus infection; this infection may go unrecognized for many years before the development of vasculitis. It is important to assess for hepatitis C virus infection in an individual with cryoglobulinemia; treatment of the hepatitis C virus infection will also treat the cryoglobulinemia and the vasculitis.
In the absence of sclerodactyly, dilated capillary loops of fingernail beds, or digital pitting, the patient has no clinical features aside from Raynaud phenomenon to support a diagnosis of systemic sclerosis; therefore, anticentromere antibody testing is not indicated.
Similarly, the patient has no joint swelling on physical examination, making a diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis much less likely; therefore, anti–cyclic citrullinated peptide antibody testing is not needed.
Anti–Jo-1 antibodies are found in patients with antisynthetase syndrome, which causes myositis and interstitial lung disease. This patient lacks these clinical features, as well as inflammatory arthritis and mechanic's hands (hyperkeratotic fissuring of the palmar and lateral surfaces of the fingers) that are often part of the syndrome. Therefore, he should not be tested for these antibodies.
Anti-U1-ribonucleoprotein antibodies is associated with systemic lupus erythematosus and mixed connective tissue disease, an overlap disease containing features of myositis, systemic sclerosis and lupus; however, the patient has negative antinuclear antibodies and aside from Raynaud phenomenon and joint pain has no other clinical features suggestive of these conditions.

**Bibliography**

Cacoub P, Comarmond C, Domont F, Savey L, Saadoun D. Cryoglobulinemia vasculitis. Am J Med. 2015;128:950-5. PMID: 25837517 doi:10.1016/j.amjmed.2015.02.017

This content was last updated in August 2018.