
### Correct Answer: B) Psoriatic arthritis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose psoriatic arthritis.

#### **Key Point:** Characteristic features of psoriatic arthritis include psoriasis, enthesitis, dactylitis, tenosynovitis, arthritis of the distal interphalangeal joints, asymmetric oligoarthritis, and spondylitis.

The most likely diagnosis is psoriatic arthritis. Characteristic features of psoriatic arthritis include psoriasis, enthesitis, dactylitis (“sausage digits”), tenosynovitis, arthritis of the distal interphalangeal joints, asymmetric oligoarthritis, and spondylitis. This patient has an asymmetric, oligoarticular arthritis involving the small joints of the hands (particularly the distal joints) and feet, a history of dactylitis, negative autoantibodies, and new bone formation and pencil-in-cup deformities on radiographs, all of which are compatible with the diagnosis of psoriatic arthritis. Patients with a characteristic pattern of psoriatic joint involvement (especially distal interphalangeal arthritis and/or dactylitis), but without apparent psoriasis, should undergo a thorough examination for occult psoriatic skin changes (for example, scalp, umbilicus, gluteal cleft, genitals) and careful nail examination. Although the characteristic skin rash is absent, the patient did have psoriatic nail changes characterized by onycholysis, pitting, and trachyonychia (roughened surface).
Gout can occur as a monoarticular or oligoarticular inflammatory arthritis, most typically starting in the first metatarsophalangeal joint but, subsequently, involving joints in the upper and lower extremities. An increasingly polyarticular pattern, however, is not likely to be seen in a patient without kidney disease, without hyperuricemia, and without medication exposure that might be expected to increase the serum urate level.
Reactive arthritis is an inflammatory arthritis that occurs in the setting of a defined antecedent infection, usually of the genitourinary or gastrointestinal tract. These cases often present as an asymmetric oligoarthritis. Up to 50% of cases resolve by 6 months, but 20% of patients progress to chronic disease. This patient has arthritis lasting almost a decade in the setting of psoriasis and should not be attributed to reactive arthritis.
Rheumatoid arthritis is characterized by a symmetric polyarticular inflammatory arthritis involving the proximal interphalangeal and metacarpophalangeal joints in the hands and the analogous joints in the feet, and commonly affecting the wrists and ankles. Radiographic findings include periarticular osteopenia and marginal (near the edges of the joint) erosions. This patient does not have physical, radiographic, or laboratory findings (negative rheumatoid factor and anti–cyclic citrullinated peptide antibodies) to support this diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Raychaudhuri SP, Wilken R, Sukhov AC, Raychaudhuri SK, Maverakis E. Management of psoriatic arthritis: Early diagnosis, monitoring of disease severity and cutting edge therapies. J Autoimmun. 2017;76:21-37. PMID: 27836567 doi:10.1016/j.jaut.2016.10.009

This content was last updated in August 2018.