
### Correct Answer: C) Kidney biopsy 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate kidney disease in systemic lupus erythematosus.

#### **Key Point:** Kidney biopsy is the diagnostic test of choice to assess and categorize kidney disease in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and is usually essential to make therapeutic decisions.

Kidney biopsy should be performed to assess this patient's kidney disease. Lupus nephritis occurs in up to 70% of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE); the presence of anti–double-stranded DNA antibodies is a marker for risk. This patient's symptoms and laboratory findings, including constitutional symptoms, inflammatory polyarthritis, a malar (butterfly) rash, positive autoantibodies (antinuclear, anti-Smith, and anti–double-stranded DNA antibodies), hypocomplementemia, and proteinuria, are suggestive of SLE. She likely has the nephrotic syndrome due to lupus nephritis, and further evaluation is needed. Kidney disease is frequent in SLE and can be seen in 10% to 30% of patients at initial presentation. There are six different pathologic classes of kidney involvement in SLE with significant prognostic and therapeutic implications. Kidney biopsy is the diagnostic test of choice to assess and categorize the kidney disease and should be performed in most cases. Indications for kidney biopsy are as follows: increasing serum creatinine without explanation, proteinuria >1000 mg/24 h, proteinuria >500 mg/24 h with hematuria, and proteinuria >500 mg/24 h with cellular casts.
Testing for antiphospholipid antibodies is appropriate to complete this patient's evaluation but will not help to further assess her kidney disease.
CT of the abdomen and pelvis may reveal masses or retroperitoneal obstruction but is unlikely to be helpful in diagnosing the cause of the nephrotic syndrome. Renal vein thrombosis can present with proteinuria but cannot account for this patient's rash, polyarthritis, or hypocomplementemia.
Renal arteriography should be performed in patients with medium-vessel vasculitis such as polyarteritis nodosa. This patient has SLE, and the vasculitis in SLE is small-vessel immune complex–mediated, in which arteriogram is usually normal and would unnecessarily expose the patient to nephrotoxic dye.
Serum and urine protein electrophoresis can assess a myeloproliferative disorder, which is not suspected in this patient with rash, polyarthritis, and the nephrotic syndrome.

**Bibliography**

Almaani S, Meara A, Rovin BH. Update on lupus nephritis. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2016. PMID: 27821390

This content was last updated in August 2018.