
### Correct Answer: C) Stop leflunomide 

**Educational Objective:** Manage neuropathic side effects of leflunomide.

#### **Key Point:** An uncommon side effect of leflunomide is peripheral neuropathy, and definitive treatment is discontinuation of the medication.

The most appropriate next step in management is to stop leflunomide. Leflunomide inhibits lymphocyte activation by blocking the pyrimidine synthesis pathway. It is approved to treat rheumatoid arthritis (RA), in which its efficacy is comparable to methotrexate. Common toxicities include gastrointestinal upset, diarrhea, aminotransferase elevations, cytopenias, infection, and teratogenesis. An uncommon side effect is peripheral neuropathy, which is usually axonal and may include sensory, motor, or mixed findings. The neuropathy can be severe but is usually self-limited if the drug is discontinued, highlighting the importance of early recognition. Low-dose methotrexate in combination with leflunomide is an infrequently employed, but proven, strategy for treating refractory RA.
Beginning gabapentin as a treatment for peripheral neuropathy would be an appropriate adjunctive therapy to stopping leflunomide, but the definitive treatment is to stop the offending agent.
High-dose glucocorticoids would be appropriate in the setting of rheumatoid vasculitis. Although peripheral neuropathy may be present in this rare complication of RA, rheumatoid vasculitis invariably occurs in the setting of poorly controlled disease. In addition, other manifestations of vasculitis would typically be present, including cutaneous findings (ulcers) and ocular disease (scleritis, episcleritis, uveitis). This patient has well-controlled RA and has no associated systemic or cutaneous findings of vasculitis, making the diagnosis extremely unlikely and the need for increasing the prednisone unnecessary.
Methotrexate inhibits folic acid metabolism and increases extracellular adenosine levels. It is the recommended initial disease-modifying antirheumatic drug for most patients with RA. Methotrexate is administered weekly along with daily folic acid supplementation, which limits toxicity without affecting efficacy. Potential toxicities include hepatitis and bone marrow suppression (leukopenia, anemia). Patients with liver disease should not receive methotrexate, and limiting alcohol intake is strongly advised. Methotrexate does not cause peripheral neuropathy and should not be discontinued.

**Bibliography**

Richards BL, Spies J, McGill N, Richards GW, Vaile J, Bleasel JF, et al. Effect of leflunomide on the peripheral nerves in rheumatoid arthritis. Intern Med J. 2007;37:101-7. PMID: 17229252

This content was last updated in August 2018.