
### Correct Answer: C) Increase allopurinol 

**Educational Objective:** Treat tophaceous gout with appropriate urate-lowering therapy.

#### **Key Point:** For patients with inadequately treated tophaceous gout who tolerate allopurinol, the dose can be titrated to a maximum of 800 mg/d in 100-mg increments to alleviate symptoms.

Increasing allopurinol to 500 mg/d is the most appropriate next step in management for this patient with symptomatic tophaceous gout. Although she has stage 3 chronic kidney disease (with an estimated glomerular filtration rate <60 mL/min/1.73 m2), she is tolerating allopurinol, 400 mg/d, without issue and does not take a diuretic, so she is not at high risk for allopurinol hypersensitivity. Allopurinol can be titrated to a maximum of 800 mg/d in 100-mg increments.
It is important to note that two recently published guidelines differ regarding the role of pharmacologic urate-lowering therapy in patients with gout. The  notes a lack of evidence supporting a specific target level for urate lowering; this guideline stresses discussing the risks and benefits of urate-lowering therapy with patients and suggests a “treat to avoid symptoms” approach without specifically considering the serum urate levels. The 2016 European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) recommendations support a “treat-to-target” approach (consistent with the 2012 American College of Rheumatology gout guidelines), reducing the serum urate level to less than 6.0 mg/dL (0.35 mmol/L) in patients without tophi and less than 5.0 mg/dL (0.30 mmol/L) in patients with tophi. Based on both the ACP and EULAR guidelines, this patient meets criteria for more aggressive therapy. 
Adding probenecid might be reasonable in some cases but is contraindicated in this patient because of her estimated glomerular filtration rate of less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m2, tophi, and recurrent nephrolithiasis.
Pegloticase is a costly drug that should be considered only when other options have been exhausted.
Increasing colchicine to twice daily for prophylaxis of acute attacks offers no clear benefit over once daily dosing. More importantly, this would not affect the serum urate level or cause resorption of the tophi.

**Bibliography**

Qaseem A, Harris RP, Forciea MA; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the American College of Physicians. Management of Acute and Recurrent Gout: A Clinical Practice Guideline From the American College of Physicians. Ann Intern Med. 2017;166:58-68. PMID: 27802508

This content was last updated in August 2018.