
### Correct Answer: C) Pulmonary arterial hypertension 

**Educational Objective:** Identify pulmonary arterial hypertension as a leading cause of mortality in mixed connective tissue disease.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with mixed connective tissue disease, pulmonary arterial hypertension and interstitial lung disease are associated with premature mortality; therefore, regular follow-up and monitoring for these conditions is warranted.

Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) and interstitial lung disease are the two conditions most commonly associated with premature mortality in patients like this with mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD). MCTD is rare (1:1,000,000). Age at onset is between 30 and 50 years, with a 9:1 female predominance. Most patients have no known risk factors. MCTD is an overlap syndrome that includes features of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), systemic sclerosis, and/or polymyositis in the presence of anti-U1-ribonucleoprotein (RNP) antibodies. More than 50% of patients with MCTD have hand edema and synovitis at disease onset. About one third develop myositis, and nearly half develop decreased esophageal motility and fibrosing alveolitis. PAH occurs in 20%, with fatigue often the initial symptom. PAH (and interstitial lung disease) is associated with poor prognosis and is a major cause of mortality in patients with MCTD. The course of MCTD is variable; the likelihood of developing PAH, interstitial lung disease, and/or cardiovascular disease increases with disease duration. Regular follow-up and monitoring for these conditions is warranted. Patients with MCTD should undergo high-resolution CT of the chest, echocardiography, and pulmonary function testing.
Central nervous system (CNS) disease is common in MCTD, with trigeminal neuralgia occurring in up to 25% of patients. CNS vasculitis is extremely rare, and CNS disease is not typically a cause of mortality in patients with MCTD.
Pericarditis is likely the most common cardiac manifestation of MCTD and while contributing to excess morbidity, it does not result in premature death. As with other chronic inflammatory diseases, premature atherosclerosis is common in patients with MCTD and can contribute to both morbidity and early mortality.
Kidney disease is found in approximately 25% of patients with MCTD and most often presents as a membranous nephropathy that typically does not lead to premature death. Glomerulonephritis is rarely observed. Renovascular hypertension as seen in systemic sclerosis is a rare cause of mortality.

**Bibliography**

Hajas A, Szodoray P, Nakken B, Gaal J, Zöld E, Laczik R, et al. Clinical course, prognosis, and causes of death in mixed connective tissue disease. J Rheumatol. 2013;40:1134-42. PMID: 23637328 doi:10.3899/jrheum.121272

This content was last updated in August 2018.