
### Correct Answer: C) Intra-articular glucocorticoid injection 

**Educational Objective:** Treat osteoarthritis with intra-articular glucocorticoids.

#### **Key Point:** Intra-articular glucocorticoid injection is a treatment option for patients with localized osteoarthritis.

Intra-articular glucocorticoid injection is an appropriate treatment option for this patient with knee osteoarthritis (OA) not adequately controlled with acetaminophen or an exercise program. Given the localized nature of her symptoms, and her more specific desire for short-term relief while she travels, she could benefit from targeted treatment. Despite a lack of high quality of evidence, trials comparing intra-articular glucocorticoids and placebo generally show that the treatment is safe and may significantly improve pain and function for patients in the short term. Furthermore, U.S. and international OA guidelines support the use of intra-articular glucocorticoids for knee OA. A recent 2-year study has called the efficacy and long-term safety of intra-articular glucocorticoid injections into question, with possible negative effects on cartilage thickness, an outcome with unclear clinical meaning. Arthrocentesis and joint injections are safe procedures in patients receiving therapeutic doses of anticoagulation therapy, and are rarely associated with significant bleeding.
Alendronate is an osteoporosis medication that inhibits bone resorption via actions on osteoclasts or on osteoclast precursors. Risedronate, another bisphosphonate, has been studied in osteoarthritis, but results have not been favorable for OA symptom modification. Risedronate did reduce a marker of cartilage degradation; nevertheless, it is not a currently recommended OA treatment.
For patients with symptomatic knee OA, the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons recommends against the use of arthroscopy with debridement. This recommendation is based on evidence from randomized trials and systematic reviews that fail to show benefit for knee pain with or without radiographic knee OA.
Pregabalin, which binds to the α2-δ subunit of voltage-gated calcium channels within the central nervous system and inhibits excitatory neurotransmitter release, is not a recognized treatment for OA. It is currently FDA approved for fibromyalgia, neuropathic pain, postherpetic neuralgia, and partial-onset seizures. Because it can cause euphoria, pregabalin is categorized as a schedule V controlled substance.
Tramadol is a centrally acting synthetic opioid analgesic that also weakly inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin. Tramadol may rarely be warranted to control pain in patients with OA who have not responded to other agents or are poor candidates for other interventions to treat painful joints, such as surgery. Compared with placebo, tramadol results in a statistically significant but relatively small improvement of OA-related knee pain. Significant side effects sufficient to warrant drug discontinuation include nausea, vomiting, and constipation.

**Bibliography**

Jüni P, Hari R, Rutjes AW, Fischer R, Silletta MG, Reichenbach S, et al. Intra-articular corticosteroid for knee osteoarthritis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015:CD005328. PMID: 26490760 doi:10.1002/14651858.CD005328.pub3

This content was last updated in August 2018.