
### Correct Answer: C) MRI of the sacroiliac joints 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose ankylosing spondylitis using MRI.

#### **Key Point:** MRI is more sensitive than radiography for detecting early spine and sacroiliac joint inflammation and may be indicated in the evaluation of suspected spondyloarthritis if radiographs are normal.

The most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next is MRI of the sacroiliac joints. This patient has symptoms suggestive of back pain due to inflammation, including young age of onset, gradual onset, pain during the night, morning stiffness, improvement with motion, no history of trauma, and no improvement with rest. A single anteroposterior pelvis plain radiograph to view the sacroiliac joints is an appropriate first diagnostic step in this setting, which may reveal joint space widening (early) or narrowing (late), erosions, sclerosis, and ankylosis, and can establish the diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis. However, plain radiographs may be normal early in the course of disease, as seen in this patient. MRI of the sacroiliac joints can then be utilized, which is more sensitive for detecting early spine and sacroiliac joint inflammation. The finding of bone marrow edema on STIR or T2-weighted images with fat suppression is not specific for ankylosing spondylitis but does suggest active inflammation, particularly if found in characteristic periarticular and subchondral locations. MRI can also identify soft-tissue evidence of inflammation in the entheses, bursae, and tendons, as well as subtle structural abnormalities.
Bone scan is sensitive for the detection of osteoblast activity and is the study of choice for detecting bone metastases from various forms of cancer. However, bone scan is not used in the diagnosis of any form of inflammatory arthritis because it lacks specificity.
CT of the lumbar spine can be useful in the diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis when radiography of the sacroiliac joints is normal. However, it is not routinely used in the evaluation of patients for arthritis due to the high dose of radiation required.
Hip pathology frequently results in anterior groin pain and would be unlikely to cause back pain. Therefore, radiography of the hip joints is not likely to aid in the diagnosis and is not indicated for this patient.

**Bibliography**

Sieper J, Poddubnyy D. Axial spondyloarthritis. Lancet. 2017. PMID: 28110981 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(16)31591-4

This content was last updated in August 2018.