
### Correct Answer: C) Belimumab 

**Educational Objective:** Treat refractory systemic lupus erythematosus with belimumab.

#### **Key Point:** Belimumab is FDA approved as an addition to standard therapy in patients who have systemic lupus erythematosus with persistent mild to moderately active disease.

Belimumab is the most appropriate therapeutic option to consider in this patient with a history of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) who continues to have active disease manifestations primarily affecting the skin and joints while she is on appropriate standard immunosuppressive therapy, including glucocorticoids. She has not been able to tolerate other immunosuppressive agents commonly used to treat active disease manifestations. Therefore, an alternative approach or escalation of the therapy is appropriate for this patient. Belimumab is FDA approved as an addition to standard therapy in patients who have SLE with mild to moderately active disease. Belimumab is designed to inhibit B-lymphocyte stimulator (BLyS) protein. BLyS plays a key role in the selection, maturation, and survival of B cells, and it has a significant role in the pathogenesis of SLE. The addition of belimumab to standard therapy reduces disease activity levels and delays flares in patients with serologically active SLE or prior glucocorticoid use. Its use is also associated with improved quality of life in appropriately selected patients. Belimumab has been found to be most effective in patients with mucocutaneous and joint manifestations; its role in other disease manifestations continues to be studied and evolve.
Abatacept is a T-cell costimulatory inhibitor that has been tried in SLE but not found to be effective.
Adalimumab is a tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α inhibitor effective in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and spondyloarthritis. Blocking TNF in patients with SLE has not been effective and may potentially worsen the disease.
The interleukin (IL)-17 inhibitor secukinumab is an approved therapy for psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis. The role of IL-17 and its blockade in SLE is under investigation but is currently not well elucidated in SLE. Secukinumab has not been studied in SLE and is not an appropriate therapy.

**Bibliography**

Garcia A, De Sanctis JB. A review of clinical trials of belimumab in the management of systemic lupus erythematosus. Curr Pharm Des. 2016;22:6306-6312. PMID: 27587201 doi:10.2174/1381612822666160831103254

This content was last updated in August 2018.