
### Correct Answer: C) Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis.

#### **Key Point:** Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis is a noninflammatory condition that involves ossification of spinal ligaments and entheses and usually presents as back pain and stiffness; characteristic radiographic changes include confluent ossification of at least four contiguous vertebral levels, usually on the right side of the spine.

Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) is the most likely diagnosis. DISH is a noninflammatory condition involving ossification of spinal ligaments and entheses. DISH can be asymptomatic or present in various ways, including as pain and stiffness in the spine, with the thoracic spine being most often involved. Although features such as ligamentous ossification are shared with ankylosing spondylitis, the sacroiliac joints are not involved in DISH. The most characteristic radiographic change of DISH is confluent ossification of at least four contiguous vertebral levels, usually on the right side of the spine. The left-sided sparing is possibly related to mechanical pressure from the aorta, and its pulsations, as a barrier toward production of bony hyperostosis on the left side.
Ankylosing spondylitis is characterized by bilateral sacroiliac joint abnormalities on spinal radiographs. Other spinal sections may also be involved, but sacroiliac joint involvement is cardinal for diagnosis. Inflammatory back pain is the most common symptom and is usually comprised of four of five of the following features: onset of back discomfort before the age of 40 years; insidious onset; improvement with exercise; no improvement with rest; and pain at night (with improvement upon arising).
Calcium pyrophosphate deposition may affect the axial spine but more often affects the peripheral skeleton. It is often asymptomatic, is not known to have a predilection for a particular segment of the spine, and appears as punctate and linear radiodensities of calcification within the cartilage on radiographs. It does not result in ossification of spinal ligaments and entheses.
Psoriatic arthritis can affect the spine, with inflammatory back pain symptoms similar to those listed with ankylosing spondylitis. Differences between psoriatic arthritis and DISH include that sacroiliac joints may be asymmetrically involved in psoriatic arthritis but are not involved in DISH, and the spondylitis is random and not necessarily continuous in psoriatic arthritis, whereas a defining characteristic of DISH is involvement of four or more vertebral bodies. DISH syndesmophytes (ligamentous ossification) are located on the anterior and lateral margins of vertebrae, but they tend to be nonmarginal in psoriatic arthritis.

**Bibliography**

Mader R, Verlaan JJ, Buskila D. Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis: clinical features and pathogenic mechanisms. Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2013;9:741-50. PMID: 24189840 doi:10.1038/nrrheum.2013.165

This content was last updated in August 2018.