
### Correct Answer: C) Stop colchicine and clarithromycin 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose colchicine and clarithromycin drug interaction.

#### **Key Point:** Coadministration of colchicine and CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as clarithromycin and fluconazole) should be avoided because potentially fatal colchicine toxicity with kidney failure, rhabdomyolysis, and bone marrow suppression may occur.

Discontinuation of colchicine and clarithromycin is the most appropriate next step in management. The coadministration of colchicine and clarithromycin can result in potentially fatal colchicine toxicity that manifests as rhabdomyolysis, acute kidney injury, and pancytopenia. Colchicine is metabolized in the liver by the CYP3A4 cytochrome and should be avoided in patients taking CYP3A4 inhibitors such as clarithromycin and fluconazole. Coadministration with clarithromycin is particularly concerning, because there have been several case reports of fatal outcomes with the combination (even when taken for a short time). Once the patient recovers, however, colchicine may be reinitiated (as it is the combination of the two drugs that led to the current scenario).
High-dose glucocorticoid therapy would be indicated in the event of immune-mediated hemolytic anemia and leukopenia (Evans syndrome). Colchicine toxicity, however, is not immune mediated and would not respond to glucocorticoids.
Plasma exchange would be appropriate for thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). Although TTP can cause thrombocytopenia and acute kidney injury, the lack of schistocytes on blood smear argues against microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, and other features of TTP such as fever and mental status changes are also absent. Plasma exchange is not effective for colchicine toxicity.
There is no need to discontinue febuxostat; this drug can be continued in patients with chronic kidney disease and would not cause the clinical picture described. In February 2019, the FDA mandated a boxed warning for febuxostat regarding the increased risk for cardiovascular death and all-cause mortality with the drug. The FDA has also limited the approved use of febuxostat for patients who are unresponsive to or cannot tolerate allopurinol.

**Bibliography**

Hung IF, Wu AK, Cheng VC, Tang BS, To KW, Yeung CK, et al. Fatal interaction between clarithromycin and colchicine in patients with renal insufficiency: a retrospective study. Clin Infect Dis. 2005;41:291-300. PMID: 16007523

This content was last updated in May 2019.