
### Correct Answer: D) Radiography of the sacroiliac joints 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose ankylosing spondylitis.

#### **Key Point:** Plain radiography of the sacroiliac joints should be obtained in patients with suspected ankylosing spondylitis to evaluate for evidence of sacroiliitis, including erosions, sclerosis, and widening, narrowing, or partial ankylosis of the sacroiliac joints.

The most appropriate test to perform next is plain radiography of the sacroiliac joints. This patient has features of inflammatory back pain (onset before age 45 years, duration >3 months, insidious onset, morning stiffness >30 minutes, improvement with exercise, no improvement with rest, awaking from pain with improvement on arising, alternating buttock pain), as well as antecedent history of anterior uveitis. He should therefore be evaluated for ankylosing spondylitis. The American College of Radiology appropriateness criteria recommend radiography of the sacroiliac joints and spine as the initial evaluation of patients with inflammatory sacroiliac or back symptoms for evidence of sacroiliitis, including erosions, evidence of sclerosis, and widening, narrowing, or partial ankylosis of the sacroiliac joints. The presence of such findings would confirm the diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis.
A bone scan lacks specificity for the changes of sacroiliitis and is not of value in the diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis.
CT of the sacroiliac joints is not considered an appropriate initial diagnostic test for ankylosing spondylitis. It exposes the patient to unnecessary amounts of radiation.
MRI is also unnecessary in most cases of suspected ankylosing spondylitis because the diagnosis can often be confirmed with less costly radiography. Although MRI is more sensitive than radiography or CT in detecting sacroiliitis, it is less specific and can result in a high yield of false-positive test results. MRI may be useful to detect inflammation in patients with high clinical suspicion but normal or equivocal radiographs.

**Bibliography**

Taurog JD, Chhabra A, Colbert RA. Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis. N Engl J Med. 2016;374:2563-74. PMID: 27355535 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1406182

This content was last updated in August 2018.