
### Correct Answer: C) Discontinue colchicine; begin meloxicam 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent gout attacks during the initiation of urate-lowering therapy.

#### **Key Point:** All patients with gout beginning urate-lowering therapy should also receive a prophylactic agent such as colchicine, low-dose glucocorticoids, or low-dose NSAIDs to prevent mobilization flares; the choice of prophylactic drug is determined by patient comorbidities.

Discontinuing colchicine and beginning an NSAID such as meloxicam is the most appropriate next step to decrease the frequency of this patient's gout attacks. He has experienced several acute gout attacks since beginning allopurinol 2 months ago. It is common to experience “mobilization attacks” at the initiation of urate-lowering therapy, which occur when urate body stores shift from joints and soft tissues to the vasculature. Hence, all patients beginning urate-lowering therapy should also receive a prophylactic agent to prevent against mobilization flares for 6 to 12 months, without which the average patient will experience several acute attacks. Colchicine is the primary prophylactic agent employed (once or twice daily) for this role, but low-dose glucocorticoids and low-dose NSAIDs are also effective. Choice of therapy should be tailored to the individual's comorbid conditions. This patient is currently taking colchicine, which is most likely causing the diarrhea. In this case, discontinuation of colchicine and initiating a low-dose NSAID such as meloxicam is the most appropriate choice. All NSAIDs are considered equivalent for this purpose.
Adding prednisone would be a reasonable option for prophylaxis but is not ideal for this patient with insulin-dependent type 2 diabetes mellitus, because even low-dose glucocorticoids may result in hyperglycemia and increase insulin requirements.
Adding the uricosuric agent probenecid or increasing the allopurinol would not afford protection against mobilization flares because they are both urate-lowering agents, not prophylactic agents. Intensifying urate-lowering therapy would be a reasonable choice if the recurrent attacks are thought to represent a failure of urate-lowering therapy, rather than mobilization attacks, as is suspected with this patient.
Increasing colchicine would be a reasonable option, were it not for the diarrhea that began with the institution of colchicine 2 months ago. Diarrhea is one of the most common side effects of colchicine, and increasing the dose would worsen gastrointestinal toxicity.

**Bibliography**

Latourte A, Bardin T, Richette P. Prophylaxis for acute gout flares after initiation of urate-lowering therapy. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2014;53:1920-6. PMID: 24758886 doi:10.1093/rheumatology/keu157

This content was last updated in August 2018.