
### Correct Answer: B) MRI of the hip 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose hip osteonecrosis related to systemic lupus erythematosus.

#### **Key Point:** Osteonecrosis is a complication of systemic lupus erythematosus most commonly affecting the hips and should be suspected when there is otherwise unexplained pain and/or reduced range of motion; MRI is the modality of choice for evaluation of early disease.

MRI of the hip is the most appropriate test to perform next in this patient with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and a past exposure to high-dose glucocorticoids, who now presents with unexplained groin pain. She is at high risk for developing osteonecrosis affecting the hip/femur. Osteonecrosis is a serious complication of SLE that most commonly affects the hips but can also involve other large joints and should be suspected when there is otherwise unexplained pain and/or reduced range of motion. Chronic prednisone doses (>20 mg/d), severe/active SLE, and vasculitis are all associated with increased risk. Hip radiography can detect advanced disease, but MRI is the modality of choice for sensitive evaluation of early disease. Small lesions can improve and resolve spontaneously, but larger lesions usually lead to bony collapse and structural sequelae. MRI should be performed in this patient with normal pelvic and hip radiographs.
The American College of Radiology (ACR) approach to imaging for suspected osteonecrosis recommends CT only for patients who cannot undergo MRI. CT is somewhat more sensitive than plain radiography in the diagnosis of osteonecrosis but not nearly as sensitive as MRI.
Radionuclide bone scan will detect increased bone turnover at the junction, osteonecrosis, and reactive bone resulting in an image of increased tracer uptake surrounding a cold area (doughnut sign). However, radionuclide bone scan is significantly less sensitive and less specific than MRI in the detection of early osteonecrosis lesions and is not usually recommended as a first-line diagnostic test.
If MRI cannot be performed in patients with suspected early osteonecrosis, a reasonable alternative is bone scan with single photon emission CT (SPECT). This imaging modality is more sensitive than radiography, but the ACR Appropriateness Criteria for Osteonecrosis of the Hip designated SPECT as a second-line test to MRI for the detection of early lesions.

**Bibliography**

Gontero RP, Bedoya ME, Benavente E, Roverano SG, Paira SO. Osteonecrosis in systemic lupus erythematosus. Reumatol Clin. 2015;11:151-5. PMID: 25441491 doi:10.1016/j.reuma.2014.05.005

This content was last updated in August 2018.