Attempted reduction of the subluxed radial head

Radial head subluxation, or nursemaid’s elbow, is the most common orthopedic condition of the elbow in
children 1–4 years of age, although it can be encountered before 1 year of age and in children as old as
9 years of age. The mechanism of injury is partial displacement of the radial head when the child’s arm
undergoes axial traction while in a pronated and fully extended position. The classic history includes a
caregiver picking up (or pulling) a toddler by the arm. In half of all cases, however, no inciting event is
recalled.
As long as there are no outward signs of fracture or abuse it is considered safe and appropriate to attempt
reduction of the radial head before moving on to imaging studies. With the child’s elbow in 90° of flexion,
the hand is fully supinated by the examiner and the elbow is then brought into full flexion. Usually the
child will begin to use the affected arm again within a couple of minutes. If ecchymosis, significant
swelling, or pain away from the joint is present, or if symptoms do not improve after attempts at reduction,
then a plain radiograph is recommended.

Ref: Sarwark JF (ed): Essentials of Musculoskeletal Care, ed 4. American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, 2010, p 1004.
2) Marx JA, Hockberger RS, Walls RM (eds): Rosen’s Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice, ed 8. Elsevier
Saunders, 2013, pp 596-617. 3) Irie T, Sono T, Hayama Y, et al: Investigation on 2331 cases of pulled elbow over the last
10 years. Pediatr Rep 2014;6(2):5090.