Isoniazid daily for 9 months

This patient’s close contact with a person known to be infected with tuberculosis (TB) places him at risk for infection, so screening for TB is indicated. For this patient, testing with either a tuberculin skin test or an interferon-gamma release assay is appropriate. Based on CDC guidelines an induration 5 mm at 48–72 hours following an intradermal injection of tuberculin is a positive test in individuals who have been in recent contact with a person with infectious TB, those with radiographic evidence of prior TB, HIV-infected persons, and immunosuppressed patients. For other individuals at increased risk for TB, the threshold for a positive test is an induration 10 mm at 48–72 hours. For those with no known risks for TB infection, the induration must exceed 15 mm in size to be considered positive. Once positive, there is no indication for additional skin tests.

A positive screening test along with a review of systems, a physical examination, and a chest radiograph that do not show evidence of active infection confirms the diagnosis of latent TB. For children age 2–11 years, treatment with isoniazid, 10–20 mg/kg daily or 20–40 mg/kg twice weekly for 9 months, is the preferred and most efficacious treatment regimen. The shorter 6-month treatment course is considered an acceptable option for adults, but it is not recommended for children. The use of rifampin alone or in combination with isoniazid is also an acceptable option for adults but not for children under the age of 12.

Ref: National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention: Latent Tuberculosis Infection: A Guide for Primary Health Care Providers. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2013.  2) Lewinsohn DM, Leonard MK, LoBue PA, et al: Official American Thoracic Society/Infectious Diseases Society of America/Centers for Disease Control and Prevention clinical practice guidelines: Diagnosis of tuberculosis in adults and children. Clin Infect Dis 2017;64(2):111-115.