Chlorthalidone

Lifestyle modifications addressing diet, physical activity, and weight are important in the treatment of hypertension, particularly for African-American and Hispanic patients. When antihypertensive drugs are also required, the best options may vary according to the racial and ethnic background of the patient. The presence or absence of comorbid conditions is also important to consider. For African-Americans, thiazide diuretics and calcium channel blockers, both as monotherapy and as a component in multidrug regimens, have been shown to be more effective in lowering blood pressure than ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers, or β-blockers, and should be considered as first-line options over the other classes of antihypertensive drugs unless a comorbid condition is present that would be better addressed with a different class of drugs. Racial or ethnic background should not be the basis for the exclusion of any drug class when multidrug regimens are required to reach treatment goals.

Ref: James PA, Oparil S, Carter BL, et al: 2014 evidence-based guideline for the management of high blood pressure in adults: Report from the panel members appointed to the Eighth Joint National Committee (JNC 8). JAMA 2014;311(5):507-520.  2) Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, et al: 2017 ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention, detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: A report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol 2018;71(19):e127-e248.