Taper the quetiapine dosage with the goal of stopping it

Behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia include delusions, hallucinations, aggression, and
agitation. Antipsychotics are frequently used for treatment of these symptoms and are continued
indefinitely. For patients who have been taking antipsychotics for 3 months and whose symptoms have
stabilized, or for patients who have not responded to an adequate trial of an antipsychotic, it is
recommended that the drug be tapered slowly (SOR B).
Physicians should collaborate with the patient and caregivers when deciding whether to use an
antipsychotic. This is recommended because antipsychotic medications have adverse effects, including an
increased overall risk of death, cerebrovascular events, extrapyramidal symptoms, gait disturbances, falls,
somnolence, edema, urinary tract infections, weight gain, and diabetes mellitus. The risk of these harms
increases with prolonged use in the elderly.
One tapering method to consider is to reduce the daily dose to 75%, 50%, and 25% of the original dose
every 2 weeks until stopping the medication. This reduction pace can be slowed for some patients.
Diphenhydramine and lorazepam are on the Beers list of potentially inappropriate medications to use in
older patients and would not be recommended.
Ref: American Geriatrics Society 2015 Beers Criteria Update Expert Panel: American Geriatrics Society 2015 Updated Beers
criteria for potentially inappropriate medication use in older adults. J Am Geriatr Soc 2015;63(11):2227-2246. 2) Bjerre
LM, Farrell B, Hogel M, et al: Deprescribing antipsychotics for behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia and
insomnia: Evidence-based clinical practice guideline. Can Fam Physician 2018;64(1):17-27. 3) Hauk L: Deprescribing
antipsychotics for behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia and insomnia. Am Fam Physician
2018;98(6):394-395.