A 30-minute rest period followed by a repeat blood pressure reading

The first step in the management of severe hypertension is determining whether a hypertensive emergency is present. A thorough history and physical examination are crucial (SOR C). Severe hypertension (blood pressure >180 mm Hg systolic or >110 mm Hg diastolic) with end-organ damage constitutes a hypertensive emergency. A physical examination should center on evaluating for papilledema, neurologic deficits, respiratory compromise, and chest pain. If end-organ damage is present the patient should be hospitalized for monitored blood pressure reduction and further diagnostic workup. If end-organ damage is not present and the physical examination is otherwise normal, a 30-minute rest with reevaluation is indicated. Approximately 30% of patients will improve to an acceptable blood pressure without treatment (SOR C). Home medications should then be adjusted with outpatient follow-up and home blood pressure monitoring (SOR A). Short-acting antihypertensives are indicated if mild symptoms are noted such as headache, lightheadedness, nausea, shortness of breath, palpitations, anxiety, or epistaxis. Diagnostic testing is not immediately indicated for asymptomatic patients (SOR C). A basic metabolic panel or other testing should be considered if mild symptoms are present. Aggressive lowering of blood pressure can be detrimental and a gradual reduction over days to weeks is preferred (SOR C).
Ref: Oza R, Garcellano M: Nonpharmacologic management of hypertension: What works? Am Fam Physician 2015;91(11):772-776.  2) Gauer R: Severe asymptomatic hypertension: Evaluation and treatment. Am Fam Physician 2017;95(8):492-500.