No further testing

This asymptomatic patient is at low risk for a major adverse cardiac event (<1%) and requires no further
testing prior to undergoing a low-risk, nonurgent surgical intervention. A routine preoperative EKG does
not provide any benefit for asymptomatic patients undergoing low-risk surgical procedures (level of
evidence 2). A preoperative EKG may be considered for asymptomatic patients without known coronary
artery disease who are undergoing intermediate and high-risk surgeries (SOR B). A preoperative EKG is
reasonable for patients who have known heart disease, peripheral artery disease, or cerebrovascular disease
who are undergoing intermediate and high-risk surgeries (SOR B).
Exercise stress testing for noncardiac surgery is not useful for patients at low risk but may be helpful for
patients with an elevated risk and unknown functional capacity (SOR B). Routine chest radiography has
no role in the preoperative evaluation. Routine preoperative echocardiography to assess left ventricular
function is not recommended in asymptomatic patients (SOR B). It is reasonable for patients with dyspnea
of unknown etiology and patients with worsening heart failure symptoms to undergo preoperative
evaluation of left ventricular function (SOR C). Preoperative echocardiography is recommended for
patients with known or suspected moderate- or high-degree valvular heart disease (SOR C).
Ref: Fleisher LA, Fleischmann KE, Auerbach AD, et al: 2014 ACC/AHA guideline on perioperative cardiovascular evaluation
and management of patients undergoing noncardiac surgery: A report of the American College of Cardiology/American
Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol 2014;64(22):e77-e137. 2) American College of
Cardiology: Five things physicians and patients should question. ABIM Foundation Choosing Wisely campaign, 2017.