Add atorvastatin (Lipitor)

Management of asymptomatic peripheral artery disease (PAD) should initially be conservative and should
include a walking program (SOR A), smoking cessation, and a healthy diet. Statins should be started for
all patients with PAD regardless of their LDL-cholesterol levels (SOR A). High-intensity statins should
be used if tolerated. A single antiplatelet agent is recommended for patients with PAD. Both aspirin and
clopidogrel are effective in the reduction of stroke, but the combination of the two is recommended only
after revascularization surgery.
Blood pressure control is indicated in patients with PAD but no antihypertensive class is clearly superior
to another, although there is some evidence that ACE inhibitors may have additional benefits in terms of
walking and pain. In an 80-year-old patient, lowering blood pressure below 120/80 mm Hg can be
associated with significant side effects, including a greater risk of falls. Anticoagulants have not been
shown to reduce the risk of major cardiovascular events in patients with PAD and they increase the risk
of life-threatening bleeding. Referral to a vascular surgeon or for angiography is indicated if conservative
therapy fails or symptoms worsen acutely, pain occurs at rest, or the patient develops ulcerations or loss
of tissue.
Ref: Carman TL, Fernandez BB: A primary care approach to the patient with claudication. Am Fam Physician
2000;61(4):1027-1034. 2) Society for Vascular Surgery: Five things physicians and patients should question: Don’t use
interventions (including surgical bypass, angiogram, angioplasty or stent) as a first line of treatment for most patients with
intermittent claudication. ABIM Foundation Choosing Wisely campaign, updated 2016. 3) Parvar SL, Fitridge R, Dawson
J, Nicholls SJ: Medical and lifestyle management of peripheral arterial disease. J Vasc Surg 2018;68(5):1595-1606. 4)
McDermott MM, Criqui MH: Ankle-brachial index screening and improving peripheral artery disease detection and
outcomes. JAMA 2018;320(2):143-145.