immobilization

This patient has acute Charcot neuroarthropathy, an inflammatory condition that occurs in obese patients
with peripheral neuropathy and ultimately leads to foot deformities (the classic rocker-bottom foot) and
resultant ulcerations and infections. Its clinical appearance can easily be initially mistaken for cellulitis.
However, the absence of tenderness and other signs of infection such as fever, an elevated WBC count,
and inflammatory markers is not consistent with cellulitis. Radiography is an appropriate initial imaging
modality but the results are often interpreted as normal early in the disease process. MRI is the modality
of choice for a definitive diagnosis and may demonstrate periarticular bone marrow edema, adjacent
soft-tissue edema, joint effusion, and microtrabecular or stress fractures.
The treatment of acute Charcot neuroarthropathy is immobilization with total contact casting, which
increases the total surface area of contact to the entire lower extremity, distributing pressure away from
the foot. Immobilization is typically required for at least 3–4 months but in some cases may be needed for
up to 12 months. Bisphosphonates were found to be ineffective as adjunctive therapy in acute Charcot
neuroarthropathy. Corticosteroids and antibiotics have no role in the treatment of Charcot foot but would
be appropriate therapy for cellulitis or gout, which are important alternative diagnoses to consider. The
role of surgery is more controversial but may be indicated in the acute phase of Charcot neuroarthropathy
in patients with severe dislocation or instability.
Ref: Marmolejo VS, Arnold JF, Ponticello M, Anderson CA: Charcot foot: Clinical clues, diagnostic strategies, and treatment
principles. Am Fam Physician 2018;97(9):594-599.