Start a 4- to 8-week trial of a proton pump inhibitor

Patients with symptoms typical for GERD can be treated conservatively initially unless there are warning
signs such as anemia, weight loss, evidence of bleeding or obstruction, dysphagia, or persistent symptoms
despite maximal treatment, or the patient is age 50 or over. In the absence of any of these concerns,
medical therapy with a proton pump inhibitor can be initiated. While H2 histamine blockers can also treat
reflux symptoms they are somewhat less effective, and stepwise therapy may increase costs.
Routine testing for Helicobacter pylori in patients with GERD alone is not recommended because treating
H. pylori has been shown in some studies to increase esophagitis and GERD symptoms. However, in the
presence of dyspepsia (fullness, bloating, nausea), which can be associated with GERD, testing for and
treating H. pylori is expected to be beneficial. This patient has classic signs and symptoms of GERD and
abdominal ultrasonography would not be likely to reveal any helpful findings. In the presence of warning
signs, esophagogastroduodenoscopy would be indicated to evaluate for a more serious pathology. Surgical
intervention for GERD should be reserved for patients who fail maximal medical therapy or patients who
are unable to take proton pump inhibitors.
Ref: Ebell MH: Diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease. Am Fam Physician 2010;81(10):1278. 2) Anderson WD 3rd,
Strayer SM, Mull SR: Common questions about the management of gastroesophageal reflux disease. Am Fam Physician
2015;91(10):692-697.