Doxycycline plus ceftriaxone

This patient presents with acute epididymitis. Typical symptoms develop gradually over 1–2 days with
posterior scrotal pain and swelling. Additional symptoms may include fever, hematuria, dysuria, and
urinary frequency. The pain may radiate to the lower abdomen. Physical examination findings may include
tenderness of the epididymis and testis along with swelling of the scrotum. Elevation of the scrotum may
decrease the pain (Prehn sign). Typical ultrasound findings include hyperemia, swelling, and increased
blood flow to the epididymis.
With testicular torsion the pain is often sudden in onset and severe, with associated nausea and vomiting
and no other urologic symptoms. A physical examination often demonstrates a high-riding testis that may
lie transversely in the scrotum. The cremasteric reflex may be absent. Ultrasound findings would
demonstrate decreased or absent blood flow with testicular torsion.
In sexually active adults <35 years of age, gonorrhea and Chlamydia are the most common causative
organisms of acute epididymitis. Ceftriaxone, 250 mg intramuscularly or intravenously once, with oral
doxycycline, 100 mg twice daily for 10 days, would be the appropriate treatment for acute epididymitis
(SOR C). In men over the age of 35 or those with a history of recent urinary tract surgery or
instrumentation, enteric organisms are the most likely cause and monotherapy with oral levofloxacin or
ofloxacin for 10 days would be the recommended treatment.
Ref: McConaghy JR, Panchal B: Epididymitis: An overview. Am Fam Physician 2016;94(9):723-726.