A long duration of smoking

The following factors have been found to increase the risk for developing an abdominal aortic aneurysm
(AAA): a history of smoking, advanced age, above-average height, having a first degree relative with an
AAA, a personal history of atherosclerosis, high cholesterol levels, and hypertension. Smokers have a
seven times greater risk of developing an AAA compared with nonsmokers. This single factor outweighs
all of the other risk factors except age. Although women are less likely to develop an AAA, they have a
2–3 times greater chance of an AAA rupturing if it is present.
In addition to significantly increasing the risk for AAA development, current smoking increases the risk
for further AAA expansion and rupture. Epidemiologic studies suggest that the duration of smoking
influences the risk for AAA significantly more than the total number of cigarettes smoked. The U.S.
Preventive Services Task Force currently recommends one-time screening for AAA in males between the
ages of 65 and 75 who have ever smoked (B recommendation). There was not enough evidence to
determine the risk and benefits of screening females with the same risk factors (I recommendation).
Ref: Final Recommendation Statement: Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Screening . US Preventive Services Task Force, 2014. 2)
Chaikof EL, Dalman RL, Eskandari MK, et al: The Society for Vascular Surgery practice guidelines on the care of patients
with an abdominal aortic aneurysm. J Vasc Surg 2018;67(1):2-77.e2.