Continuation of the current treatment plan

Adult patients or their legally authorized representatives have the right to refuse any medical treatment, regardless of its likelihood of success; however, there is no legal right to receive any and all treatment demanded. When patients have explicit advance directives in writing, their wishes are clear. When no written document exists but the patient’s desire is well known to his or her physician, the physician is ethically bound to honor these wishes. This responsibility must be balanced against the physician’s ethical obligation not to perform futile treatments of no benefit to the patient. Family members acting as a medical decision-making proxy are obligated to represent what they believe to be the patient’s wishes, even if this conflicts with their personal beliefs.

This case highlights two commonly encountered issues: honoring the patient’s wishes when there is conflicting evidence of what their wishes may be, and withholding medically futile treatment. In this case, the futility of treating the patient’s condition overrides any confusion as to her wishes, and the admission treatment plan is the most appropriate. Nevertheless, it would be best to discuss this with the nephew and attempt to arrive at a consensus, with the patient’s best interest being the primary concern.

Ref: Talebreza S, Widera E: Advance directives: Navigating conflicts between expressed wishes and best interests. Am Fam Physician 2015;91(7):480-484.