Indomethacin

There are several types of chronic headaches, and they often respond to different treatments. Migraine is very prevalent and is characterized by headaches that are periodic, often unilateral, and frequently pulsatile. Migraine is familial and typically starts in childhood, adolescence, or young adulthood, and the headaches decrease in frequency over time. Some are associated with aura, which causes visual disturbances. In mild cases, over-the-counter medications may control symptoms. For most patients, however, treatment to control the attack can include triptans such as sumatriptan, and/or ergot alkaloids such as ergotamine. Treatment to prevent attacks may also be appropriate, and could include a β-blocker, antiepileptic drugs, or amitriptyline.

Tension headaches are usually bilateral and are typically described as dull or aching, but patients often describe tightness or pressure. They are not associated with symptoms such as throbbing, nausea, or photophobia. Tension headaches are more frequent than migraine but patients often treat them at home without seeking medical treatment. Frequent or persistent tension headaches can be treated with several drugs used for anxiety or depression, including amitriptyline. Stronger analgesics and ergotamine are not helpful.

Cluster headache is another type of chronic headache. This occurs most frequently in adult males, and often occurs over a period which may extend over many weeks, with repeated episodes or clusters. It most often occurs at night, and may recur several times during the night. The headache is unilateral and is associated with orbital pain and vasomotor phenomenon such as blocked nasal passages, rhinorrhea, conjunctival injection, and miosis. The headache can be treated with inhalation of 100% oxygen, and the headache cycle can be terminated with verapamil. Ergotamine or sumatriptan can be used at night to prevent attacks.

There are also variants of cluster headaches, including chronic paroxysmal hemicrania, which resembles cluster headache but has some important differences. Like cluster headaches, these headaches are unilateral and accompanied by conjunctival hyperemia and rhinorrhea. However, these headaches are more frequent in women, and the paroxysms occur many times each day. This type of headache falls into a group of headaches that have been labeled indomethacin-responsive headaches because they respond dramatically to indomethacin.

Ref: Yancey JR, Sheridan R, Koren KG: Chronic daily headache: Diagnosis and management. Am Fam Physician 2014;89(8):642-648.  2) Ropper AH, Samuels MA, Klein JP: Adams and Victor’s Principles of Neurology , ed 10. McGraw-Hill, 2014, pp 168-190.