Monitoring only

According to an international consensus statement, there are three criteria for diagnosing sarcoidosis: (1) a compatible clinical and radiologic presentation, (2) pathologic evidence of noncaseating granulomas, and (3) exclusion of other diseases with similar findings. The main exceptions to the need for histologic confirmation are the presence of bilateral hilar adenopathy in an asymptomatic patient (stage I) and the presentation of sarcoid-specific Lofgren syndrome—with fever, erythema nodosum, and bilateral hilar adenopathy that can be diagnosed based on clinical presentation alone. An asymptomatic patient with stage I sarcoidosis (bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy on chest radiography) without suspected infection or malignancy does not require an invasive tissue biopsy because the results would not affect the recommended management, which is monitoring only. Treatment is not indicated because spontaneous resolution of stage I sarcoidosis is common.

Reliable biomarkers for diagnosing sarcoidosis do not exist. Although the serum angiotensin converting enzyme level may be elevated in up to 75% of untreated patients, this lacks sufficient specificity, has large interindividual variability, and fails to consistently correlate with disease severity, all of which limit its clinical utility.

Pathologic evidence of noncaseating granulomas from the most accessible and safest biopsy site should be pursued only if there is an indication for treatment, such as significant symptomatic or progressive stage II or III pulmonary disease or serious extrapulmonary disease. If treatment is indicated, corticosteroids are the first-line treatment for sarcoidosis. Second- and third-line treatments include methotrexate, azathioprine, leflunomide, and biologic agents.

Ref: Statement on sarcoidosis. Joint statement of the American Thoracic Society (ATS), the European Respiratory Society (ERS) and the World Association of Sarcoidosis and Other Granulomatous Disorders (WASOG) adopted by the ATS Board of Directors and by the ERS Executive Committee, February 1999. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1999;160(2):736-755.  2) Soto-Gomez N, Peters JI, Nambiar AM: Diagnosis and management of sarcoidosis. Am Fam Physician 2016;93(10):840-848.