Serum protein electrophoresis

This patient has a peripheral neuropathy. A review of the patient’s history and specific laboratory testing was performed to evaluate for the most common treatable causes of peripheral neuropathy, which include diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, and nutritional deficiencies. Additional causes of peripheral neuropathy include chronic liver disease and renal disease. It is important to consider medications as a possible cause, including amiodarone, digoxin, nitrofurantoin, and statins. Excessive alcohol use is another important consideration. In this patient, the mildly elevated total protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate, which suggest a monoclonal gammopathy such as MGUS (monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance) or multiple myeloma, should direct her workup. Serum protein electrophoresis is indicated to assess for this.

Other less common causes of peripheral neuropathy include carcinoma causing a paraneoplastic syndrome, lymphoma, sarcoidosis, AIDS, and genetic disorders such as Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. Approximately 25% of patients with peripheral neuropathy have no clearly defined cause after a thorough evaluation and are diagnosed with idiopathic polyneuropathy.

MRI of the lumbar spine can identify central lesions causing spinal cord or nerve root compression but is not indicated in the evaluation of peripheral neuropathy. Serum angiotensin converting enzyme levels and a chest radiograph can assist in the diagnosis of sarcoidosis, which can cause peripheral neuropathy but is less likely in this patient. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis is important in assessing for chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy, a more rare cause of peripheral neuropathy.

Ref: Hughes RA: Per Azhary H, Farooq MU, Bhanushali M, et al: Peripheral neuropathy: Differential diagnosis and management. Am Fam Physician 2010;81(7):887-892.  2) Goldman L, Schafer AI (eds): Goldman’s Cecil Medicine , ed 25. Elsevier Saunders,
2016, pp 1274-1275, 2531-2532.