Azithromycin (Zithromax)

This patient has acute chest syndrome (ACS), a serious vaso-occlusive complication of sickle cell disease (SCD). Its cause may be multifactorial, but infections are common and antimicrobials are indicated. However, the clinical course of ACS is significantly different from infectious pneumonia in patients without SCD, due to the damaged microvasculature that occurs in ACS. Studies have shown that atypical pathogens predominate in ACS and it is therefore important to treat all patients with ACS with antibiotics that cover Mycoplasma and Chlamydophila . Viral infections are also common, especially in children with ACS. Other possible pathogens include Staphylococcusaureus , Streptococcus pneumoniae , and Haemophilus influenzae . Therefore, the use of a third-generation cephalosporin along with azithromycin is the recommended antibiotic coverage.

In addition to antimicrobials, treatment includes supportive care with supplemental oxygen, intravenous fluids, pain control, and incentive spirometry. Depending on the degree of anemia seen, a simple blood transfusion or exchange transfusion is often indicated as well. Consultation with a hematologist is recommended in the care of patients with ACS. Even with appropriate care, mortality rates in ACS are as high as 3%.

Ref: Yawn BP, Buchanan GR, Afenyi-Annan AN, et al: Management of sickle cell disease: Summary of the 2014 evidence-based report by expert panel members. JAMA 2014;312(10):1033-1048.  2) Howard J, Hart N, Roberts-Harewood M, et al: Guideline on the management of acute chest syndrome in sickle cell disease. Br J Haematol 2015;169(4):492-505.