Oppositional defiant disorder

This child presents with oppositional defiant disorder (ODD). To meet the DSM-5 criteria for ODD, the child must demonstrate at least four symptoms from any of the following categories: angry/irritable mood (often loses temper, is often touchy or easily annoyed, is often angry and resentful), argumentative/defiant behavior (often argues with authority figures or with adults, often actively defies or refuses to comply with requests from authority figures, often deliberately annoys others, often blames others for his/her mistakes or misbehavior), and vindictiveness (has been spiteful or vindictive at least twice within the past 6 months). These behaviors must be directed toward at least one person other than a sibling.

Behavioral problems associated with conduct disorder are more severe, including aggression toward animals or other persons, destruction of property, and a pattern of theft or deceit. The person’s conduct frequently leads to conflict with authority figures.

Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder involves difficulty in following rules, struggles with authority figures, and possibly annoying others. In ODD, however, defiance of authority figures occurs in settings other than those where sustained attention or sitting quietly is required.

Bipolar disorder can include irritability and negative affect but the argumentative, defiant behavior or vindictiveness that occur in ODD do not routinely occur in mood disorders.

Intermittent explosive disorder involves repeated, sudden episodes of impulsive, aggressive, violent behavior or angry verbal outbursts in which the person reacts grossly out of proportion to the situation. Road rage, domestic abuse, throwing or breaking objects, or other temper tantrums may be signs of intermittent explosive disorder. Serious aggression toward others does not occur in ODD.

Ref: American Psychiatric Association:Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorder, ed 5. American Psychiatric Association, 2013, pp 462-463.  2) Riley M, Ahmed S, Locke A: Common questions about oppositional defiant disorder. Am Fam Physician 2016;93(7):586-591.