likelihood ratio

There has been a large increase in the number of diagnostic tests available over the past 20 years. Although tests may aid in supporting or excluding a diagnosis, they are associated with expense and the potential for harm. In addition, the characteristics of a particular test and how the results will affect management and outcomes must be considered. Clinically useful statistics for evaluating diagnostic tests include the positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and likelihood ratio.

The likelihood ratio indicates how a positive or negative test correlates with the likelihood of disease. Ratios greater than 5–10 greatly increase the likelihood of disease, and those less than 0.1–0.2 greatly decrease it. In the example given, if the patient’s endometrial stripe is >25 mm, the likelihood ratio is 15.2 and her post-test probability of endometrial cancer is 63%. However, if it is ≤4 mm, the likelihood ratio is 0.02 and her post-test probability of endometrial cancer is 0.2%.

The number needed to treat is useful for evaluating data regarding treatments, not diagnosis. Prevalence is the existence of a disease in the current population, and incidence describes the occurrence of new cases of disease in a population over a defined time period. The relative risk is the risk of an event in the experimental group versus the control group in a clinical trial.

Ref: Ebell MH: Diagnosis: Making the best use of medical data. Am Fam Physician 2009;79(6):478-480.  2) Kasper DL, Fauci AS, Hauser SL, et al (eds): Harrison’s Principles of Internal Medicine , ed 19. McGraw-Hill, 2015, pp 21-24.