Elevated creatinine

Elevated levels of NT-proBNP are known to indicate an increased likelihood of heart failure, and lower levels can rule out heart failure. However, certain patient characteristics can lead to higher levels of NT-proBNP even in healthy individuals. The use of one normal cutoff level for elevated NT-proBNP may not be appropriate. Even healthy female patients and those >65 years of age will have higher levels of NT-proBNP than younger male patients (SOR A).

NT-proBNP is negatively correlated with kidney function as measured by the estimated glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and albumin levels. Patients with a low GFR or a low level of albumin have higher NT-proBNP levels (SOR A). Interestingly, grip strength is negatively correlated with NT-proBNP as well.

A higher BMI is associated with a lower NT-proBNP. Thus, the utility of NT-proBNP to rule out heart failure in obese patients is decreased (SOR A).

Ref: Booth RA, Hill SA, Don-Wauchope A, et al: Performance of BNP and NT-proBNP for diagnosis of heart failure in primary care patients: A systematic review. Heart Fail Rev 2014;19(4):439-451.  2) Redfield MM: Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. N Engl J Med 2016;375(19):1868-1877.  3) Chen SF, Li YJ, Song HM, et al: Impact of protein nutritional status on plasma BNP in elderly patients. J Nutr Health Aging 2016;20(9):937-943.  4) Hamada M, Shigematsu Y, Takezaki M, et al: Plasma levels of atrial and brain natriuretic peptides in apparently healthy subjects: Effects of sex, age, and hemoglobin concentration. Int J Cardiol 2017;228:599-604.