Repeat colonoscopy at age 60

Screening for colorectal cancer (CRC) is recommended for average-risk individuals beginning at age 50 (SOR A). Individuals at higher risk include those with a personal history of adenomatous polyps, CRC, inflammatory bowel disease, genetic cancer syndromes, or a family history of either adenomatous polyps or CRC. Patients with a first degree relative with CRC or adenomatous polyps discovered before age 60, or two or more first degree relatives at any age with CRC or advanced adenoma, should undergo colonoscopy screening starting at age 40 or 10 years before the youngest age a family member was diagnosed, whichever comes first. The maximum surveillance interval for these patients is 5 years (SOR C). Patients with a single first degree relative diagnosed at age 60 or older, and patients with two affected second degree relatives, should undergo screening starting at age 40 by any recommended method, and at the same intervals for average-risk individuals (SOR C). Patients with small, distal hyperplastic polyps are considered to have a normal colonoscopy (SOR C). There is no need for referral to a gastroenterologist or interval fecal immunochemical testing (FIT) following an adequate colonoscopy.

Ref: Short MW, Layton MC, Teer BN, Domagalski JE: Colorectal cancer screening and surveillance. Am Fam Physician 2015;91(2):93-100.  2) Rex DK, Boland CR, Dominitz JA, et al: Colorectal cancer screening: Recommendations for physicians and patients from the US Multi-Society Task Force on Colorectal Cancer. Am J Gastroenterol 2017;112(7):1016-1030.