Explore whether his school counselor has a process to address this problem

Childhood bullying has potentially serious implications for bullies and their targets. The target children are typically quiet and sensitive, and may be perceived to be weak and different. Children who say they are being bullied must be believed and reassured that they have done the right thing in acknowledging the problem. Parents should be advised to discuss the situation with school personnel.

Bullying is extremely difficult to resolve. Confronting bullies and expecting victims to conform are not successful approaches. The presenting symptoms are not temporary, and in fact can progress to more serious problems such as suicide, substance abuse, and victim-to-bully transformation. The signs and symptoms in the patient described here are consistent with bullying and not thyroid disease.

The Olweus Bullying Prevention Program developed in Norway is a well documented, effective program for reducing bullying among elementary and middle-school students by altering social norms and by changing school responses to bullying incidents, including efforts to protect and support victims. Students who have been bullied regularly are more likely to carry weapons to school, be in frequent fights, and eventually be injured.

Ref: Gini G, Pozzoli T: Bullied children and psychosomatic problems: A meta-analysis. Pediatrics 2013;132(4):720-729.  2) McClowry RJ, Miller MN, Mills GD: What family physicians can do to combat bullying. J Fam Pract 2017;66(2):82-89. 