Prescribe nitrofurantoin (Macrobid, Macrodantin)

Urinary tract infection (UTI) is the most common bacterial infection in women. The annual incidence of UTI in women is 12%. Women who have had a UTI in the past are usually quite adept at diagnosing their own subsequent UTIs. Prospective studies have shown that women who suspect they have a UTI are more than 85% accurate based on culture results (SOR B). This is more accurate than dipstick testing, which has a sensitivity of 75% and a specificity of 82%. Nonpregnant female patients who have typical UTI symptoms without signs of pyelonephritis (i.e., fever and nausea) or vaginitis can be treated safely and effectively by phone.

Urine culture testing is not indicated for uncomplicated UTIs. It has been found that the traditional criterion for infection (100,000 colony-forming units/mL) is not sensitive for women with a UTI. Urine testing should be reserved for patients suspected of having pyelonephritis.

There are three first-line antibiotics for uncomplicated UTI. These include nitrofurantoin for 5 days, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole for 3 days, and fosfomycin as a single dose (SOR A). Fluoroquinolones are second-line agents and are best reserved for more serious infections such as pyelonephritis.

Urinary analgesics can be helpful with UTI symptoms but are not the preferred method of treatment, as antibiotics rapidly reduce the symptoms of infection.

Ref: Hooton TM: Uncomplicated urinary tract infection. N Engl J Med 2012;366(11):1028-1037.  2) Arnold JJ, Hehn LE, Klein DA: Common questions about recurrent urinary tract infections in women. Am Fam Physician 2016;93(7):560-569.