Prophylaxis with acetazolamide

Acute mountain sickness (AMS) occurs in at least 25% of persons traveling to destinations over 8000 feet above sea level. Risk factors include rapid ascent, living at low altitudes (<2000 ft), a prior history of altitude illness, and strenuous physical exertion during the ascent. AMS is most often manifested by headache, fatigue, lightheadedness, and/or nausea. The best way to prevent AMS is gradual ascent, but medications may also be effective in prophylaxis, especially if a rapid ascent such as in motorcycling, driving, or flying to altitude is planned.

The drug of first choice in preventing AMS is acetazolamide, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, starting the day before ascent. It is, however, contraindicated in patients with sulfa allergy. The second-line drug for prevention is dexamethasone, which should be used for prophylaxis in sulfa-allergic patients. It is also used in the treatment of AMS and high-altitude cerebral or pulmonary edema, but immediate descent of at least 2000 feet is imperative if either of those more serious complications develop. While advocated as a prophylactic and treatment option for AMS, the results for ginkgo are mixed and it is therefore not recommended for use in this situation. Smoking cessation and physical conditioning are both good ideas for this patient, but neither will reduce his risk for developing AMS.

Ref: Fiore DC, Hall S, Shoja P: Altitude illness: Risk factors, prevention, presentation, and treatment. Am Fam Physician 2010;82(9):1103-1110.  2) Nieto Estrada VH, Molano Franco D, Medina RD, et al: Interventions for preventing high altitude illness: Part 1. Commonly-used classes of drugs. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2017;(6):CD009761.