Patellofemoral pain syndrome

Patellofemoral pain syndrome is one of the most common causes of knee pain in children, particularly adolescent girls. Pain beneath the patella is the most common symptom. Squatting, running, and other vigorous activities exacerbate the pain. Walking up and down stairs is a classic cause of the pain, and pain with sitting for an extended period is also common. The physical examination reveals isolated tenderness with palpation at the medial and lateral aspects of the knee, and the grind test is also positive.

Osgood-Schlatter disease is seen in skeletally immature patients. Rapid growth of the femur can cause tight musculature in the quadriceps across the knee joint. It typically appears between the ages of 10 and 15, during periods of rapid growth. Pain and tenderness over the tibial tubercle and the distal patellar tendon is the most common presentation. The pain is aggravated by sports participation, but also occurs with normal daily activities and even at rest.

Growing pains most often affect the thigh and quadriceps and occur during late afternoon or evening, or wake the patient at night. The joints are not affected. The pain typically goes away by morning, and may sometimes occur the day after vigorous or unusual activity.

Patellar tendinopathy is an overuse injury often seen in those who participate in jumping sports such as volleyball, and is also related to frequent stops and starts in football players. It typically causes infrapatellar pain, and findings include extensor mechanism malalignment, weakness of ankle flexors, and tightness of the hamstring, heel cord, and/or quadriceps.

Sever’s disease is an overuse syndrome most often seen between the ages of 9 and 14, and is related to osteochondrosis at the insertion of the Achilles tendon on the calcaneal tuberosity. It occurs during periods of rapid growth, causes heel pain during and after activity, and is relieved with rest. It is often related to beginning a new sport or the start of a season.

Ref: Madden CC, Putukian M, Young CC, McCarty EC: Netter’s Sports Medicine . Elsevier Saunders, 2010, pp 425-426, 442-443, 466-467.  2) Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, Geme JW III, et al (eds): Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics , ed 20. Elsevier Saunders, 2016, pp 1226-1227, 3271-3273, 3346-3347.