Limiting sodium intake

Dietary counseling is key in the management of cirrhosis. Patients with ascites should be limited to 2000 mg of sodium daily (SOR A). Fluid restriction is not recommended unless the serum sodium level is <120 mEq/L, and it is extremely difficult to achieve. Patients would need to limit fluid intake to less than their urinary output, which is often reduced.

Up to 60% of patients with cirrhosis suffer from malnutrition, so a high-protein diet is recommended (1.0–1.5 g/kg dry body weight). High-protein diets are tolerated well and result in improved mental status (SOR B). Protein restriction does not benefit those with hepatic encephalopathy.

β-Blockers should be stopped when the patient’s mean arterial pressure is <82 mm Hg (blood pressure 100/73 mm Hg) (SOR B). β-Blockers are used in early cirrhosis for hypertension, reducing portal pressures, and prevention of varices. They are no longer effective when the patient becomes hypotensive or has refractory ascites, spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, or other conditions associated with significant changes in hemodynamic status. This patient is normotensive on his current dosage of metoprolol. As his cirrhosis progresses the metoprolol will likely need to be discontinued.

Statins can be safely used in patients with cirrhosis. Their cardiovascular benefits are well established and the risk of associated liver failure is extremely low (SOR A).

Ref: Ge PS, Runyon BA: Treatment of patients with cirrhosis. N Engl J Med 2016;375(8):767-777.