Patients who are pregnant

The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends screening for asymptomatic bacteriuria with a urine culture for pregnant women at 12–16 weeks gestation or at the first prenatal visit if it occurs later (A recommendation). The USPSTF recommends against screening for asymptomatic bacteriuria in men and nonpregnant women (D recommendation).

The Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) guidelines for asymptomatic bacteriuria recommend that pregnant women should be screened for bacteriuria by urine culture at least once in early pregnancy, and they should be treated if the results are positive (A-I recommendation). The IDSA also recommends screening for and treatment of asymptomatic bacteriuria before transurethral resection of the prostate (A-I recommendation) and also before other urologic procedures for which mucosal bleeding is anticipated (A-III recommendation).

The IDSA’s recommendation for the Choosing Wisely campaign is to not treat asymptomatic bacteriuria with antibiotics. The only exceptions to this recommendation include pregnant women, patients undergoing prostate surgery or other invasive urologic surgery, and kidney or kidney pancreas organ transplant patients within the first year of receiving the transplant.

Screening for asymptomatic bacteriuria is not recommended for long-term care residents or patients with indwelling bladder catheters without symptoms of a UTI (catheter-associated asymptomatic bacteriuria).

Ref: Nicolle LE, Bradley S, Colgan R, et al: Infectious Diseases Society of America guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of asymptomatic bacteriuria in adults. Clin Infect Dis 2005;40(5):643-654.  2) US Preventive Services Task Force: Screening for asymptomatic bacteriuria in adults: US Preventive Services Task Force reaffirmation recommendation statement. Ann Intern Med 2008;149(1):43-47.  3) Infectious Diseases Society of America: Five things physicians and patients should question. ABIM Foundation Choosing Wisely campaign, 2015.