mild persistent

In patients ≥12 years of age, asthma is classified as intermittent if symptoms are present ≤2 days per week, nighttime awakenings occur ≤2 times per month, an inhaler is required ≤2 days per week, and the FEV1 is >80% of predicted. Intermittent asthma does not interfere with normal activities and inhaled short-acting β2-agonists during symptomatic periods are usually sufficient treatment.
Mild persistent asthma is defined as symptoms present >2 days per week but not daily, nighttime awakenings 3–4 times per month, and inhaler use >2 days per week but not daily and not more than once on any day. The FEV1 is >80% of predicted. Mild persistent asthma can cause minor limitations during normal activities and should be treated with low-dose inhaled corticosteroids (ICs).
With moderate persistent asthma, symptoms are present daily, nighttime awakenings occur >1 time per week but not nightly, and an inhaler is required daily. A patient with moderate persistent asthma has an FEV1 that is 60%–80% of predicted and can experience some limitations during normal activities. Moderate persistent asthma is treated with a combination of low-dose ICs and long-acting β2-agonists (LABA) or medium-dose ICs as monotherapy.
Severe asthma is defined as symptoms present throughout the day, nighttime awakenings up to 7 times per week, inhaler use several times per day, and an FEV1 <60% of predicted. Normal activities are extremely limited by severe asthma. Treatment includes medium- to high-dose ICs with a LABA, and consultation with an asthma specialist is recommended. Omalizumab is also indicated for patients who have allergies.

Ref: Asthma Care Quick Reference: Diagnosing and Managing Asthma . National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, 2012.