Administering a familial risk stratification tool

Mammographic screening is not recommended at the age of 38. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends against routine mammographic screening for breast cancer between the ages of 40 and 49, but promotes a policy of individualized shared decision making. Mammography every 2 years is recommended for women between the ages of 50 and 74 (B recommendation). The USPSTF recommends any of several familial risk stratification tools for use in women who have a family member with breast, ovarian, tubal, or peritoneal cancer, to assess for an increased risk of a BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation. If the screen is positive, a referral for genetic counseling is recommended to determine if BRCA testing is indicated (B recommendation). MRI of the breasts is not recommended for screening by the USPSTF but is recommended by some organizations as an adjunct to mammography for women determined to be at high risk of breast cancer, such as those with a BRCA mutation.

Ref: Final Recommendation Statement: BRCA-Related Cancer: Risk Assessment, Genetic Counseling, and Genetic Testing . US Preventive Services Task Force, 2013.  2) Nelson HD, Pappas M, Zakher B, et al: Risk assessment, genetic counseling, and genetic testing for BRCA -related cancer  in women: A systematic review to update the US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation. Ann Intern Med 2014;160(4):255-266.  3) Final Update Summary: Breast Cancer: Screening . US Preventive Services Task Force, 2016.