Moderate-intensity exercise, 150 minutes weekly

A systematic evidence review released by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) noted that the most active people had median cardiovascular risk reductions of about 30%–35% when compared with the least active. Statins are beneficial for both primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease, but the benefit is greater when the baseline risk is greater. Current guidelines would not support statin therapy for a patient with a 10-year risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) <5%. Fish oil supplements have not proven to be useful for primary prevention of ASCVD. Aspirin is recommended for the prevention of cardiovascular disease in adults 50–59 years of age with a >10% 10-year ASCVD risk who are not at increased risk of bleeding, are expected to live at least 10 years, and are willing to take low-dose daily aspirin for 10 years (USPSTF B recommendation). Niacin is no longer recommended for cardiovascular risk reduction due to a lack of evidence for benefit.

Ref: Shiroma EJ, Lee IM: Physical activity and cardiovascular health: Lessons learned from epidemiological studies across age, gender, and race/ethnicity. Circulation 2010;122(7):743-752.  2) Final Recommendation Statement: Aspirin Use to Prevent Cardiovascular Disease and Colorectal Cancer: Preventive Medication. US Preventive Services Task Force, 2017.  3) Last AR, Ference JD, Menzel ER: Hyperlipidemia: Drugs for cardiovascular risk reduction in adults. Am Fam Physician 2017;95(2):78-87.