Discontinue lisinopril and begin amlodipine, 5 mg daily

This patient has essential hypertension and her goal blood pressure is <140/90 mm Hg based on JNC 8 guidelines, or 130/80 mm Hg based on the more recent recommendations of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Until recently, it was recommended that physicians should tolerate a rise of <30% in serum creatinine after ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) initiation. Rises in serum creatinine of >30% from baseline increase the risk of renal failure, adverse cardiac outcomes, and death. A recent study suggests that rises in serum creatinine of <30% also put patients at risk for these outcomes, with a dose-response relationship between the magnitude of creatinine change and the risk of adverse outcomes.

This patient has more than a 30% rise in creatinine and has no other factors, such as diabetes mellitus, heart failure, or chronic kidney disease, that would indicate a need for ACE or ARB therapy for her hypertension. Discontinuing her ACE inhibitor and starting a medication from a different class is the most appropriate treatment at this time. Based on JNC 8 guidelines, additional options for blood pressure medications include thiazide diuretics and calcium channel blockers.

Ref: James PA, Oparil S, Carter BL, et al: 2014 evidence-based guideline for the management of high blood pressure in adults: Report from the panel members appointed to the Eighth Joint National Committee (JNC 8). JAMA 2014;311(5):507-520.  2) Schmidt M, Mansfield KE, Bhaskaran K, et al: Serum creatinine elevation after renin-angiotensin system blockade and long term cardiorenal risks: Cohort study. BMJ 2017;356:j791.  3) Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, et al: 2017 ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention, detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: A report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol 2018;71(19):e127-e248.