Use of oxycodone and lorazepam

The increase in opiate-related accidental overdoses has become a significant concern in recent years, prompting the CDC to release updated guidelines for the use of narcotic medications for chronic noncancer pain. There are several concerning issues in this patient’s care. Her obstructive sleep apnea, psychiatric ailments, and concurrent use of opiates and benzodiazepines all increase the risk of an accidental overdose. The CDC also warns against using opiates in patients with heart failure, chronic pulmonary diseases, and a personal history of drug or alcohol abuse.

These risks are so great that the CDC recommends that chronic noncancer pain be primarily treated with nonpharmacologic and nonopiate medications. The use of opioids should be reserved for recalcitrant cases under close supervision at the lowest effective dose for the shortest time possible. The CDC also recommends against using opiates in fibromyalgia and neuropathy due to limited efficacy and side-effect profiles (SOR B). The concurrent use of opiates and benzodiazepines should be avoided in nearly all situations (SOR C). Safety should never be compromised for reduced pain and increased functionality.

Ref: Hudson S, Wimsatt LA: How to monitor opioid use for your patients with chronic pain. Fam Pract Manag 2014;21(6):6-11.  2) Raleigh MF, Dunn AM: Controlled-release oxycodone for neuropathic pain and fibromyalgia in adults. Am Fam Physician 2015;91(5):286-287.  3) Bredemeyer M: CDC develops guideline for opioid prescribing. Am Fam Physician 2016;93(12):1042-1043.  4) Wingrove P, Park B, Bazemore A: Rural opioid use disorder treatment depends on family physicians. Am Fam Physician 2016;94(7):546.  5) Lembke A, Humphreys K, Newmark J: Weighing the risks and benefits of chronic opioid therapy. Am Fam Physician 2016;93(12):982-990.