A trial of an intranasal corticosteroid

According to the CDC, cough is the most common symptom resulting in primary care visits. Chronic cough in adults is defined as one that lasts 8 weeks or more. The workup should include a history focusing on potential triggers, as well as the identification of any red flags. If the physical examination is normal and the patient’s history does not indicate the cause of the cough, a chest radiograph is appropriate.

The most common cause of chronic cough in adults is upper airway cough syndrome. Patients might have nasal symptoms such as rhinorrhea or congestion. Physical findings can include swollen turbinates and posterior pharyngeal cobblestoning, or they can be unremarkable. Initial treatment may include the use of decongestants, oral or intranasal antihistamines, intranasal corticosteroids, or saline nasal rinses (SOR C). Symptoms should resolve within a few weeks, and referral for allergy testing can be considered if they are not resolved within 2 months. CT of the sinuses can be considered as well, but sinus radiographs are more specific.

Other common causes of chronic cough include asthma, nonasthmatic eosinophilic bronchitis, and GERD. If asthma is suspected, spirometry is indicated. If spirometry is positive for asthma, a trial of an inhaled bronchodilator is indicated. If there are other indications of GERD such as heartburn, globus sensation, or hoarseness, an antacid or a trial of a proton pump inhibitor is indicated.

Ref: Michaudet C, Malaty J: Chronic cough: Evaluation and management. Am Fam Physician 2017;96(9):575-580.