Combined estrogen and progesterone

This patient presents with typical vasomotor symptoms that can begin in perimenopause and affect sleep
quality. Hormone therapy is the gold standard for treatment of vasomotor symptoms. Combination estrogen
and progesterone therapy is highly effective for vasomotor symptoms and provides protection against
uterine neoplasia. Although micronized progesterone decreases vasomotor symptoms there are no
long-term studies to assess the safety of progestin-only treatment for menopausal symptoms.
Compounded bioidentical hormone therapy creates safety concerns and is not a first-line therapy due to
limited government regulation and monitoring, the potential for overdosing and underdosing, impurities
or lack of sterility, and the lack of labeling describing risks. Testosterone alone is not FDA-approved for
use in women. Additionally, it has not been shown to be beneficial for treatment of vasomotor symptoms
in combination with hormone therapy and is associated with significant side effects. It may be useful for
hypoactive sexual desire in postmenopausal women. There is insufficient data to recommend the use of
herbal remedies such as black cohosh.

Ref: Somboonporn W, Davis S, Seif MW, Bell R: Testosterone for peri- and postmenopausal women. Cochrane Database Syst
Rev 2005;(4):CD004509. 2) Wierman ME, Arlt W, Basson R, et al: Androgen therapy in women: A reappraisal: An
Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2014;99(10):3489-3510. 3) Hill DA, Crider M,
Hill SR: Hormone therapy and other treatments for symptoms of menopause. Am Fam Physician 2016;94(11):884-889.
4) The NAMS 2017 Hormone Therapy Position Statement Advisory Panel: The 2017 hormone therapy position statement
of The North American Menopause Society. Menopause 2017;24(7):728-753.