An eccentric gastrocnemius-strengthening program

Pain located between the myotendinous junction and the insertion of the Achilles tendon that occurs during prolonged walking or running is typical for midsubstance Achilles tendinopathy. The mechanisms resulting in pain are complex and not fully understood but inflammation is believed to contribute little to the process. This is evidenced in part by the ineffectiveness of treatments typically used to reduce inflammation such as NSAIDs and corticosteroids, which are not recommended in the treatment of this condition (SOR A). Other commonly used musculoskeletal therapeutic modalities such as immobilization, ultrasonography, orthotics, massage, and stretching exercises have not been shown to consistently offer significant benefits and are not considered to be first-line therapy for Achilles tendinopathy.

A gastrocnemius-strengthening eccentric exercise program performed in sets of controlled, slow, active release from weight-bearing full extension to full flexion of the foot at the ankle has been shown to reduce pain and improve function in the 60%–90% range, making this the logical first-line treatment for Achilles tendinopathy (SOR A).

The less common insertional Achilles tendinopathy localized to the enthesis is typically more recalcitrant, and immobilization in a walking boot for a period of time may be necessary before eccentric exercise can be tolerated.

Ref: Childress MA, Beutler A: Management of chronic tendon injuries. Am Fam Physician 2013;87(7):486-490.