A DXA scan

Relative energy deficiency in sport (RED-S), formerly known as the female athlete triad, is a relatively common condition in female athletes, and is characterized by amenorrhea, disordered eating, and osteoporosis. It is more common in sports that promote lean body mass. Female athletes should be screened for the disorder during their preparticipation evaluations. Individuals who present with one or more components of RED-S should be evaluated for the other components. This patient has a low BMI for her age, which indicates an eating disorder, and secondary amenorrhea, and should be screened for osteoporosis using a DXA scan. The International Society for Clinical Densitometry recommends using the Z-score, rather than the T-score, when screening children or premenopausal women. The T-score is based on a comparison to a young adult at peak bone density, whereas the Z-score uses a comparison to persons of the same age as the patient. A Z-score less than –2.0 indicates osteoporosis. The American College of Sports Medicine defines low bone density as a Z score of –1.0 to –2.0.

An EKG is not required in this patient since she has normal vital signs. Pelvic ultrasonography is not necessary unless an abnormal finding is identified on a pelvic examination. Abdominopelvic CT would be inappropriate given the patient’s age and lack of abdominopelvic symptoms such as pain or a mass. A nuclear bone scan likewise is not recommended, as it is not used to diagnose osteoporosis (SOR C).

Ref: Joy EA, Van Hala S, Cooper L: Health-related concerns of the female athlete: A lifespan approach. Am Fam Physician 2009;79(6):489-495.  2) Mendelsohn FA, Warren MP: Anorexia, bulimia, and the female athlete triad: Evaluation and management. Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am 2010;39(1):155-167. 3) Javed A, Tebben PJ, Fischer PR, Lteif AN: Female athlete triad and its components: Toward improved screening and management. Mayo Clin Proc 2013;88(9):996-1009.