Discontinue warfarin 5 days prior to surgery and restart it 12–24 hours postoperatively unless there is a bleeding complication

Perioperative management of chronic anticoagulation requires an assessment of the patient’s risk for thromboembolism and the risk of bleeding from the surgical procedure. High-risk patients include those with mechanical heart valves, a stroke or TIA within the past 3 months, venous thromboembolism within the past 3 months, or coronary stenting within the previous 12 months. High-risk patients require bridging therapy with low molecular weight heparin, while patients at low risk do not require bridging anticoagulation. For low-risk patients, it is recommended that warfarin be discontinued 5 days prior to surgery and restarted 12–24 hours postoperatively. This patient is at low risk for thromboembolism because her CHA2DS2-VASc score is 3. A patient with atrial fibrillation should receive bridging therapy with a CHA2DS2-VASc score 6. This patient’s surgery is associated with a high risk for bleeding, so it is preferable to stop her warfarin 5 days before the operation.

Ref: Douketis JD, Spyropoulos AC, Spencer FA, et al: Perioperative management of antithrombotic therapy: Antithrombotic therapy and prevention of thrombosis, 9th ed: American College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. Chest 2012;141(2 Suppl):e326S-e350S.  2) January CT, Wann LS, Alpert JS, et al: 2014 AHA/ACC/HRS guideline for the management of patients with atrial fibrillation: A report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. J Am Coll Cardiol 2014;64(21):e1-e76.