angiokeratomas

Penile lesions are usually easily diagnosed from clinical findings. Pearly penile papules are common and benign, and present as small, skin-colored, dome-shaped papules in a circular pattern around the coronal sulcus.

Lichen nitidus is benign but uncommon. It presents as discrete, pinhead-sized hypopigmented papules that are asymptomatic. Papules are often found scattered all over the penis, as well as on the abdomen and upper extremities.

Lichen sclerosus is more common and appears as hypopigmented lesions with the texture of cellophane. The lesions are usually located on the glans or prepuce. Atrophy, erosions, and bullae are common, and patients often present with itching, pain, bleeding, and possibly phimosis or obstructed voiding. Lichen sclerosus is associated with squamous cell cancer in a small percentage of cases.

Carcinoma in situ is a premalignant condition that is more common in uncircumcised males over age 60. Lesions are typically beefy red, raised, irregular plaques and can be found on the glans, meatus, frenulum, coronal sulcus, and prepuce. Lesions can be ulcerated or crusted. Pruritus and pain are common. A biopsy is important for making the diagnosis.

Angiokeratomas are lesions that are usually asymptomatic, circumscribed, red or bluish papules. They may appear solely on the glans of the penis, but are also found on the scrotum, abdomen, thighs, groin, and extremities. They may be misdiagnosed as pearly papules or carcinoma. Treatment is not necessary unless the lesions are bleeding or extensive. It is important to realize that angiokeratomas on the shaft of the penis, the suprapubic region, or the sacral region can be associated with Fabry disease. Patients with this finding should be promptly referred.

Ref: Buechner SA: Common skin disorders of the penis. BJU Int 2002;90(5):498-506.  2) Teichman JM, Sea J, Thompson IM, Elston DM: Noninfectious penile lesions. Am Fam Physician 2010;81(2):167-174.  3) Habif TP: Clinical Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy, ed 6. Elsevier, 2016, p 914.