obesity hypoventilation syndrome

This patient has obesity hypoventilation syndrome (OHS), a disorder in which central obesity leads to chronic hypoventilation due at least in part to restricted diaphragm excursion. Current criteria for this condition include hypoventilation leading to carbon dioxide retention (PaCO2 >45 mm Hg) in an individual with a BMI > 30 kg/m2 when other causes of chronic alveolar hypoventilation have been ruled out. These patients retain bicarbonate to compensate for the respiratory acidosis. It has been suggested that an increased serum bicarbonate level (>29 mEq/L) in the absence of another cause for metabolic alkalosis should be included in the definition of OHS.

OHS leads to a restrictive pattern on spirometry, which this patient has. Asthma and COPD are obstructive lung diseases and can therefore be ruled out in this patient who has no signs of airway obstruction on spirometry. Obstructive sleep apnea is often present in patients with OHS, but sleep apnea alone does not lead to daytime hypoventilation and carbon dioxide retention. Pulmonary fibrosis is a cause of restrictive lung disease and has not yet been completely ruled out in this patient, but a normal chest radiograph makes this less likely. Comprehensive pulmonary function testing, including the diffusion capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide (DLCO), would help rule this out. Pulmonary fibrosis leads to a decreased DLCO while OHS does not.

Ref: Johnson JD, Theurer WM: A stepwise approach to the interpretation of pulmonary function tests. Am Fam Physician 2014;89(5):359-366.  2) Piper A: Obesity hypoventilation syndrome: Weighing in on therapy options. Chest 2016;149(3):856-868.