Intralesional triamcinolone (Kenalog)

These findings are consistent with alopecia areata, which is thought to be caused by a localized autoimmune reaction to hair follicles. It occasionally spreads to involve the entire scalp (alopecia totalis) or the entire body (alopecia universalis). Spontaneous recovery usually occurs within 6–12 months, although areas of regrowth may be pigmented differently. Recovery is less likely if the condition persists for longer than a year, worsens, or begins before puberty. The initial treatment of choice for patients older than 10 years of age, in cases where alopecia areata affects less than 50% of the scalp, is intralesional corticosteroid injections. Minoxidil is an alternative for children younger than 10 years of age or for patients in whom alopecia areata affects more than 50% of the scalp. While topical immunotherapy is the most effective treatment for chronic severe alopecia areata, it has the potential for severe side effects and should not be used as a first-line agent. Finasteride inhibits 5 ß-reductase type 2, resulting in a decrease in dihydrotestosterone levels, and is used in the treatment of androgenic alopecia (male-pattern baldness). Similarly, spironolactone is sometimes used for androgenic alopecia because it is an aldosterone antagonist with antiandrogenic effects.
Ref: Springer K, Brown M, Stulberg DL: Common hair loss disorders. Am Fam Physician 2003;68(1):93-102. 2) Goldman L, Ausiello D (eds): Cecil Medicine, ed 23. Saunders, 2008, p 2979.