Providing no other food or fluids to breastfeeding infants without a medical indication

The Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative is a global program established by UNICEF and WHO to promote healthy infant feeding and mother-baby bonding. The primary objective is to educate the public on the benefits of breastfeeding and encourage, promote, and facilitate breastfeeding as outlined in the UNICEF/WHO Ten Steps to Successful Breastfeeding chart. These steps promote breastfeeding to the public and provide guidelines for hospitals and birthing centers for the successful initiation and continuation of breastfeeding.

Baby-friendly facilities must have a written breastfeeding policy that is routinely communicated to all health care staff, and all health care staff must be trained in the skills necessary to implement this policy. All pregnant women should be informed about the benefits and management of breastfeeding. Mothers should be helped to initiate breastfeeding within an hour after birth and shown how to breastfeed and to maintain lactation, even if they are separated from their infants. Breastfeeding infants should not be given food other than breast milk, unless medically indicated. If mothers choose to give formula after appropriate education, they should be instructed in proper preparation and use.

Rooming in should be practiced, allowing mothers and infants to remain together 24 hours a day. Mothers should be encouraged to breastfeed on demand. Breastfeeding infants should not be given pacifiers or artificial nipples. Mothers should be referred to breastfeeding support groups on discharge from the hospital. In addition, the hospital must comply with the International Code of Marketing of Breast Milk Substitutes, which requires that formula companies cannot give free gifts to staff or mothers, that breast milk substitutes are not marketed in the maternity unit, and that breast milk supplements and infant feeding supplies are purchased at fair market price.

Ref: Perrine CG, Galuska DA, Dohack JL, et al: Vital signs: Improvements in maternity care policies and practices that support breastfeeding—United States, 2007–2013. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2015;64(39):1112-1117.  2) Guidelines and evaluation criteria for facilities seeking baby-friendly designation. Baby-Friendly USA, 2016.