Mometasone (Nasonex)

This patient presents with symptoms of acute rhinosinusitis. In the first 3–4 days, viral and bacterial rhinosinusitis are indistinguishable. Guidelines from the American Academy of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery suggest that antibiotics should not be routinely prescribed for acute mild to moderate sinusitis unless symptoms persist for 7 days or worsen after initial improvement. Watchful waiting without antibiotic treatment is appropriate when follow-up is accessible (SOR A). In this scenario antibiotic therapy is not indicated.

Amoxicillin with or without clavulanate is appropriate for symptoms lasting 7 or more days without improvement and is the first-line antibiotic treatment for acute bacterial rhinosinusitis (SOR A). Due to the risk of adverse effects and no benefit over β-lactams, respiratory fluoroquinolones are not considered first-line antibiotic therapy. Symptomatic treatment is recommended within the first 10 days of the onset of symptoms and may be continued if antibiotics are started. Intranasal corticosteroid use has a modest therapeutic benefit for patients with acute rhinosinusitis. Decongestants and antihistamines have not been proven effective for the treatment of acute rhinosinusitis.

Ref: Aring AM, Chan MM: Current concepts in adult acute rhinosinusitis. Am Fam Physician 2016;94(2):97-105.
  Ref: Goldman L, Ausiello D (eds): Cecil Medicine, ed 23. Saunders, 2008, p 572. 2) Fauci AS, Braunwald E, Kasper DL, et al (eds): Harrison’s Principles of Internal Medicine, ed 17. McGraw-Hill, 2008, p 1573.