primary ovarian insufficiency

This patient presents with secondary amenorrhea. The differential diagnosis includes polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), intrauterine synechiae (Asherman syndrome), functional hypothalamic amenorrhea, hypothyroidism, hyperprolactinemia, and primary ovarian insufficiency (also known as premature ovarian failure). This patient’s presentation and the laboratory findings are most consistent with a diagnosis of primary ovarian insufficiency. This is defined as menopause before the age of 40 due to ovarian follicular depletion. Laboratory findings will usually reveal a low serum estradiol and elevated FSH and LH levels. This condition is different than menopause because of the age of presentation and the unpredictability of long-term ovarian function (up to 10% of cases spontaneously remit and patients have a temporary return of fertility).

Patients with PCOS typically present with obesity, difficulty conceiving, and normal or low FSH and LH levels. This patient’s normal weight and prior history of normal menses make this diagnosis less likely. Intrauterine synechiae is characterized by scar tissue inside the uterus. Risk factors include intrauterine procedures, pregnancy, inflammation, and infection. Patients present with abnormal uterine bleeding, recurrent pregnancy loss, dysmenorrhea, and infertility. FSH and LH levels are usually normal.

Functional hypothalamic amenorrhea is characterized by suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis, usually due to extreme stress, excessive exercise, marked weight loss, and/or dysfunctional eating. LH and FSH levels are usually low or low-normal. Turner’s syndrome is caused by the 45,X genotype, and patients have short stature, a webbed neck, a low hairline, and cardiac abnormalities. This is unlikely in a patient who is 178 cm (70 in) tall and has a normal examination.

Ref: Klein DA, Poth MA: Amenorrhea: An approach to diagnosis and management. Am Fam Physician 2013;87(11):781-788.