Yersinia pestis

Yersinia pestis is an aerobic fermentative gram-negative rod. It causes a zoonotic infection with humans as the accidental host. The disease is spread by a bite from a flea vector, direct contact with infected tissue, or inhalation of infectious aerosols from a person with pulmonary plague. Plague occurs in two regions in the western United States. One region includes northern New Mexico, northern Arizona, and southern Colorado, and the other region includes California, southern Oregon, and far western Nevada.

Escherichia coli is also an aerobic fermentative gram-negative rod but it generally causes symptoms of gastroenteritis, hemolytic-uremic syndrome, urinary tract infection, intra-abdominal infection, and meningitis. E. coli infection does not have a specific regional distribution. Listeria monocytogenes is a gram-positive rod and causes an influenza-like illness with or without gastroenteritis in adults. Infection occurs through ingestion of contaminated food products such as milk, cheese, processed meats, and raw vegetables. Outbreaks can occur in any geographic distribution.

Coxiella burnetii is a gram-negative intracellular bacterium that causes Q fever. Human infections are associated with contact with infected cattle, sheep, goats, dogs, and cats. Brucella melitensis is a gram-negative coccobacilli that causes brucellosis. Humans are accidental hosts who can develop the disease from contact with tissues rich in erythritol, and from shedding of organisms in milk, urine, and birth products from goats and sheep.

Ref: Murray P: Basic Medical Microbiology. Elsevier, 2017, pp 28-29, 50-51, 54-55, 60, 89.  2) Plague: Maps and statistics. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2018.