sarcoidosis

Sarcoidosis, a disease of unknown etiology, affects young to middle-age adults (predominantly 20–29 years ld). In the U.S. it is more common in African-Americans. It is asymptomatic in 30%–50% of patients, and is often diagnosed on a routine chest film. About one-third of cases will present with fever, malaise, weight loss, cough, and dyspnea. The pulmonary system is the main organ system affected, and findings may include bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy and discrete, noncaseating epithelial granulomas. Facial nerve palsy is seen in <5% of patients, and usually occurs late in the process. Before Lyme disease was recognized, bilateral facial nerve palsy was almost always due to sarcoidosis. Hemoptysis does not generally occur until late in the course of sarcoidosis, and is usually related to Aspergillus infection or cavitation. Renal involvement rarely results in significant proteinuria or hematuria. Polyarteritis nodosa may involve the lungs. Although pneumonic episodes may be associated with hemoptysis in a small percentage of patients, the chest radiograph is more likely to reveal granulomatous lesions rather than patchy infiltrates. Goodpasture’s syndrome is characterized by pulmonary hemorrhage, glomerulonephritis, and antiglomerular basement membrane antibodies. Hemoptysis, pulmonary alveolar infiltrates, dyspnea, and iron-deficiency anemia are frequent presenting features. Within days or weeks, the pulmonary findings are generally followed by hematuria, proteinuria, and the rapid loss of renal function. Pulmonary embolus is an acute event, and would present with dyspnea and possibly hemoptysis,
but not hilar lymphadenopathy.
  Ref: Wu JJ, Schiff KR: Sarcoidosis. Am Fam Physician 2004;70(2):312-322. 2) Goldman L, Ausiello D (eds): Cecil Medicine, ed 23. Saunders, 2008, pp 667-672, 689-692, 872-873, 2054. 3) Fauci AS, Braunwald E, Kasper DL, et al (eds): Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine, ed 17. McGraw-Hill, 2008, pp 2135-2142.