Chlamydia trachomatis

Chlamydial pneumonia is usually seen in infants 3–16 weeks of age, and they frequently have been sick for several weeks. The infant appears nontoxic and is afebrile, but is tachypneic with a prominent cough. Physical examination reveals diffuse rales with few wheezes. Conjunctivitis is present in about 50% of cases. The chest film shows hyperinflation and diffuse interstitial or patchy infiltrates.
Staphylococcal pneumonia has a sudden onset. The infant appears very ill and has a fever. At the time of onset there may be an expiratory wheeze simulating bronchiolitis. Signs of abdominal distress, tachypnea, dyspnea, and localized or diffuse bronchopneumonia or lobar disease may be present. The WBC count shows a prominent leukocytosis.
Respiratory syncytial infections start with rhinorrhea and pharyngitis, followed in 1–3 days by cough and wheezing. Auscultation reveals diffuse rhonchi, fine rales, and wheezes. The chest film is often normal. If the illness progresses, cough and wheezing increase, air hunger and intercostal retractions develop, and evidence of hyperexpansion of the chest is seen. In some infants, the course of the illness may be similar to that of pneumonia. Rash or conjunctivitis may occur occasionally, and fever is an inconsistent sign. The WBC count is normal or elevated, and the differential may be normal or shifted either to the right or left. Chlamydial infections may be differentiated from respiratory syncytial infections by a history of
conjunctivitis and a subacute onset. Coughing is prominent, but wheezing is not. There may also be
eosinophilia. Fever is usually absent.
Parainfluenza virus infection presents with typical cold symptoms. Eight percent of infections affect the upper respiratory tract. In children hospitalized for severe respiratory illness, parainfluenza viruses account for about 50% of the cases of laryngotracheitis and about 15% each of the cases of bronchitis, bronchiolitis, and pneumonia.
Ref: Kliegman RM, Behrman RE, Jenson HB, et al (eds): Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics, ed 18. Saunders, 2007, p 1286.