Clopidogrel (Plavix) orally

An oral loading dose of clopidogrel should be administered as soon as possible in patients with unstable angina/NSTEMI who are to be treated conservatively. The standard dosage should then be prescribed, to be taken daily for at least 1 month along with aspirin (SOR B).
Immediate-release calcium channel antagonists such as nifedipine are not indicated. If  β-blockers are contraindicated, verapamil or diltiazem would be the preferred agents. Intravenous ACE inhibitors may induce shock and should be avoided in the first 24 hours.
Abciximab is used for patients who will undergo rapid catheterization with a significant chance of acute
coronary intervention. NSAIDs are contraindicated because they may weaken areas of damaged myocardium and increase the risk of rupture, and may also increase the risk of infarction or extension. They have been used in the past for treatment of associated pericarditis, which most frequently develops a few days after presentation, but are now avoided.
Ref: ACC/AHA 2007 guidelines for the management of patients with unstable angina/non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction: A report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines (Writing Committee to Revise the 2002 Guidelines for the Management of Patients with Unstable Angina/Non–ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction) developed in collaboration with the American College of Emergency Physicians, the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, and the Society of Thoracic Surgeons: Endorsed by the American Association of Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation and the Society for Academic Emergency Medicine. J Am Coll Cardiol 2007;50(7):e1-e57.