hospitals ask patients about advance directives

The 1990 Patient Self-Determination Act (PSDA) requires hospitals, nursing homes, and health care programs to ask patients about advance directives and then incorporate the information into medical records. The living will, a written advance directive, allows a competent person to indicate his or her health care preferences while cognitively and physically healthy. A living will may list medical interventions the patient wishes to have withheld or withdrawn when he or she becomes unable to communicate. Another type of advance directive, the durable power of attorney for health care, allows persons to designate a proxy (or surrogate) to make decisions for them if they become incapacitated.
  Although PSDA mandates that patients be asked about their advance directive status upon admission to the hospital, it does not require hospitals or individual physicians to offer patients an opportunity to complete an advance directive. The acceptance and precision of verbal preferences varies from state to state. Although verbal discussions are binding in many states, five states require “clear and convincing evidence of patient preferences.” In California, Delaware, Michigan, Missouri, and New York, advance directives must include such evidence regarding a specific condition and/or treatment, even if a durable power of attorney states prior general verbal preferences. Therefore, lack of an advance directive may result in continued medical interventions to preserve life even if the patient may not want such treatment.
Ref: Crane MK, Wittink M, Doukas DJ: Respecting end-of-life treatment preferences. Am Fam Physician 2005;72(7):1263-1268.