Simvastatin (Zocor)

Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is a common malady that has several proven treatments. The outcomes of these treatments can be separated into two primary categories: reducing PAD symptoms and preventing death due to systemic cardiovascular events (CVEs), especially myocardial infarction. Routine exercise up to near-maximal pain on a regular basis has been shown to be one of the most effective treatments for symptoms of PAD. Smoking cessation and aspirin are also standard recommendations, and can both prevent CVEs and slow the rate of progression of PAD symptoms.
  Statin drugs (specifically simvastatin and atorvastatin) have been shown to be beneficial for treatment of PAD symptoms and prevention of CVEs through the reduction of cholesterol, but they also appear to have other properties that help reduce leg pain in patients with PAD. Although lowering abnormally high blood pressure is recommended in PAD patients, only ACE inhibitors have been shown to reduce symptoms of PAD directly. Furthermore, the combination of atenolol and nifedipine has actually been shown to worsen symptoms of PAD. The addition of warfarin to aspirin has no additional benefit in either reduction of PAD symptoms or prevention of CVEs, but it may have a role in preventing clots in patients who have undergone revascularization.
Ref: Hankey GJ, Norman PE, Eikelboom JW: Medical treatment of peripheral arterial disease. JAMA 2006;295(5):547-553. 2) Hackam DG, Eikelboom JW: Antithrombotic treatment for peripheral arterial disease. Heart 2007;93(3):303-308.