Corticosteroid injection

Carpal tunnel syndrome of mild to moderate severity can be treated nonsurgically. Patients with severe
symptoms or nerve damage seen on electromyography should be referred for surgical therapy. Nonsurgical
management options include splinting, physical therapy, therapeutic ultrasound, and corticosteroids (oral
or injection). Oral prednisone, 20 mg daily, for 10–14 days improves symptoms and function compared
with placebo, for up to 8 weeks, but oral corticosteroids are less effective than corticosteroid injections.
In a 2013 double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial comparing methylprednisolone
injection (40 mg and 80 mg) to saline injection, patients in the 80-mg injection group were less likely to
have surgery at 12 months.
While corticosteroid injections have the best evidence for delaying the need for surgery, night splints,
physical therapy, and therapeutic ultrasound have some evidence of benefit. Splinting was found to be
effective in a Cochrane review. It is low cost and safe and especially recommended in pregnancy-related
disease. Limited evidence supports the use of physical therapy to treat carpal tunnel syndrome. Nerve glide
exercises are simple hand and finger movements that are easy to learn, can be performed at home, and can
be combined with other treatments such as splinting. Therapeutic ultrasound also has limited evidence of
benefitIt requires an experienced therapist and requires multiple sessions, typically 5 days/week for 2–4
weeks.

Ref: Atroshi I, Flondell M, Hofer M, Ranstam J: Methylprednisolone injections for the carpal tunnel syndrome: A randomized,
placebo-controlled trial. Ann Intern Med 2013;159(5):309–317. 2) Wipperman J, Goerl K: Carpal tunnel syndrome:
Diagnosis and management. Am Fam Physician 2016;94(12):993-999.
59