Hyperparathyroidism

Many patients have mild hyperparathyroidism that becomes evident only with an added calcium load.  Thiazide diuretics reduce calcium excretion and can cause overt symptoms in a patient whose hyperparathyroidism would otherwise have remained asymptomatic.  The finding of a normal parathyroid hormone (PTH) level in a patient with hypercalcemia is diagnostic for hyperparathyroidism, since PTH should be suppressed in the presence of elevated calcium.  Symptomatic hypercalcemia causes dehydration because of both intestinal symptoms and diuresis.  Reversible renal insufficiency can result, and can become permanent if it is long-standing and severe. Conversely, renal failure usually causes hypocalcemia, but can cause hypercalcemia resulting from tertiary hyperparathyroidism.  This develops after severe hyperphosphatemia and vitamin D deficiency eventually produce hypersecretion of PTH.  This patient's renal insufficiency is not severe enough to cause tertiary hyperparathyroidism.  Milk alkali syndrome is hypercalcemia resulting from a chronic overdose of calcium carbonate, and is becoming more common as more patients take calcium and vitamin D supplements.  In milk alkali syndrome, and other causes of hypercalcemia such as sarcoidosis, the PTH level is appropriately suppressed. Ref: Carroll MF, Schade DS: A practical approach to hypercalcemia. Am Fam Physician 2003;67(9):1959-1966.  2) Wermers RA, Keams AE, Jenkins GD, et al: Incidence and clinical spectrum of thiazide-associated hypercalcemia. Am J Med 2007;120(10):e9-e15.