One prescription in the patient’s name and three prescriptions for expedited partner therapy

Expedited partner therapy (EPT) is the clinical practice of treating the sex partners of patients diagnosed
with Chlamydia or gonorrhea by providing prescriptions or medications to the patient to take to his/her
partner without the health care provider first examining the partner. When patients have been diagnosed
with gonorrhea or Chlamydia, EPT has been shown to reduce the overall burden of disease in a given
population when the partners cannot be linked to care. In this case, as the partners’ identities are unknown,
it is impossible for the clinician to examine them or even contact them, so four prescriptions should be
written, one with the patient’s name and the other three for EPT. The CDC states that EPT is particularly
effective in treating the female partners of infected males. The CDC considers having the partners visit
a health care provider to be the optimal course of treatment but this is not often practically feasible due to
a lack of resources or social factors.
Although conventional practice is to treat only the patient, this does not provide timely treatment for the
patient’s partners. A prescription written to “EPT” can be filled at the pharmacy without the individual’s
name or date of birth. Kentucky and South Carolina are the only states that do not allow this practice. A
prescription with three refills would be unethical, as presumably the physician would be advising the
patient to distribute medications that had been prescribed to only the patient. Blank prescriptions would
require the partners to reveal their identities, which may lead to a reluctance to fill the prescriptions.
Ref: Final Recommendation Statement: Chlamydia and Gonorrhea: Screening . US Preventive Services Task Force, 2016. 2)
Expedited Partner Therapy. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2018.