Hydration with sodium bicarbonate-containing fluids

Several studies have demonstrated that hydration with sodium bicarbonate-containing fluids reduces the risk of contrast-induced nephropathy in those undergoing cardiac catheterization.  Studies of interventions to prevent renal failure in patients at high risk have shown that mannitol plus hydration does not reduce acute renal failure compared to hydration alone.  Randomized, controlled trials have shown that fenoldopam does not decrease the need for dialysis or improve survival.  One systematic review found that low-osmolality contrast media reduced nephrotoxicity in persons with underlying renal failure requiring studies using contrast. One systematic review and one subsequent randomized, controlled trial found that adding loop diuretics to fluids was not effective and may actually increase the possibility of acute renal failure compared to fluids alone.  A large randomized, controlled trial found no significant difference between natriuretic peptides and placebo in preventing acute renal failure induced by contrast media. Ref: Kellum J, Leblanc M, Venkataraman R: Acute renal failure. Am Fam Physician 2007;76(3):418-422.  Ozcan EE, Guneri S, Akdeniz B, et al: Sodium bicarbonate, N-acetylcysteine, and saline for prevention of radiocontrast-induced nephropathy. A comparison of 3 regimens for protecting contrast-induced nephropathy in patients undergoing coronary procedures. A single-center prospective controlled trial. Am Heart J 2007;154(3):539-544.