MRI of the lumbosacral spine

The differential diagnosis of urinary retention in the elderly is broad.  While most causes are benign and readily treated, the physician must be vigilant in looking for conditions that require urgent intervention.This patient presents with many possible causes of urinary retention, with the most common being benign prostatic hyperplasia.  Acute prostatitis, especially in a male with an enlarged prostate, is another relatively common reason for obstructive symptoms.  This patients physical examination and abnormal urinalysis support this diagnosis, but his normal vital signs and lack of fever suggest he can be treated with an oral fluroquinolone and does not require hospital admission for intravenous therapy. Medications such as oral decongestants can contribute to urinary retention in men with enlarged prostate glands, and should be used with caution and discontinued if obstructive symptoms occur.  Obstipation with stool impaction is another relatively common reason for urinary retention in the elderly and can be treated with manual disimpaction and enemas. In this patient, the presence of increasing low back pain and leg weakness, and the findings of anal sphincter laxity and numbness in the perianal area on examination, suggest the presence of a serious neurologic etiology such as cauda equina syndrome.  Urgent diagnosis and treatment are necessary to reduce morbidity, and MRI should be performed immediately. The presence of a mildly elevated post-void residual is not an indication for urgent decompression with a Foley catheter. Ref: Selius BA, Subedi R: Urinary retention in adults: Diagnosis and initial management. Am Fam Physician 2008;77(5):643-650.