myasthenia gravis

Common neurologic disorders in young women include multiple sclerosis, Guillain-Barré syndrome, and myasthenia gravis. Myasthenia gravis is part of the differential diagnosis for sudden neurologic weakness, and Guillain-Barré syndrome must also be considered in this patient. Multiple sclerosis would not result in respiratory compromise. Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune neuromuscular disease characterized by varying degrees of skeletal muscle weakness.  Symptoms, which vary in type and severity, may include ptosis of one or both eyelids; blurred vision; diplopia; unstable gait; weakness in the arms, hands, fingers, legs, and neck; difficulty swallowing; shortness of breath; and impaired speech (dysarthria).  In most cases, the first noticeable symptom is weakness of the eye muscles.  Muscles that control respiration and neck and limb movements may also be affected.  Symptoms typically worsen through the day or as the muscles are repetitively used, and improve with rest. Fibromyalgia does not produce objective neurologic findings, and Sheehan's syndrome would not cause a localized neurologic deficit. In addition, the TSH level would be low or zero, and the MRI of the brain would be abnormal. An MRI of the brain would also be abnormal if stroke symptoms had been present for 2 weeks. The patient is unlikely to have unilateral symptoms with polymyositis, and creatine kinase would be elevated. Ref: Dhand UK: Clinical approach to the weak patient in the intensive care unit. Respir Care 2006;51(9):1024-1040.  2) Conti-Fine BM, Milani M, Kaminski HJ:  Myasthenia gravis: Past, present, and future. J Clin Invest 2006;116(11):2843-2854.