Repeat Pap and HPV testing in 1 year

According to the American Society for Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology, a Papanicolaou test with cotesting
for HPV is the preferred cervical cancer screening strategy for women age 30–64. This is because
despite negative cytology, women with oncogenic HPV are at higher risk for later CIN 3+ than women
with negative HPV tests. The risk of CIN 3+ in HPV-positive but cytology-negative women is sufficient
to justify an earlier return for retesting. However, most HPV infections are cleared spontaneously, which
reduces the risk of CIN 3+, so observing patients to allow time for this to happen is an attractive option.
Guidelines must balance the risks arising from interventions for HPV that may clear spontaneously against
the risks of disease. Women with HPV 16 are at particular risk for CIN 3+. HPV 18 merits special
consideration because of its association with cervical adenocarcinomas, which are less efficiently detected
by cytology than squamous cell cancers. The patient described here should be advised to return for cotesting
in 1 year. If her cytology remains negative but her HPV test remains positive, she should be advised
to have colposcopy at that time regardless of the serotype of the HPV. If her current test had shown
evidence of either strain 16 or 18 immediate colposcopy would be indicated.

Ref: Massad LS, Einstein MH, Huh WK, et al: 2012 updated consensus guidelines for the management of abnormal cervical
cancer screening tests and cancer precursors. J Low Genit Tract Dis 2013;17(5 Suppl 1):S1-S27.
81