Starting supplementation at 6 months of age if the primary water supply is fluoride deficient

The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends oral fluoride supplementation for the prevention
of dental caries beginning at age 6 months for children whose primary water supply is fluoride deficient
(B recommendation). Well water may be fluoridated naturally depending on the aquifer, but the water is
highly variable and should be tested before deciding on the need for supplementation. Testing well water
is also advisable because excessive fluoride may lead to fluorosis of the bones. Bottled water is variable,
making it undependable as an adequate source of fluoride. Topical fluoride, in toothpaste or applications
of fluoride varnish, is effective in preventing tooth decay in children and can be used in addition to
properly fluoridated water. Twice-yearly application of fluoride varnish to primary teeth should begin
when the first tooth comes in and repeated every 6 months thereafter in children (SOR B).
Ref: Stephens MB, Wiedemer JP, Kushner GM: Dental problems in primary care. Am Fam Physician 2018;98(11):654-660.
Item 172
ANSWER: D
Once the diagnosis of acute rheumatic fever is made, NSAIDs such as aspirin or naproxen should be
administered (SOR B). The therapeutic response to NSAIDs is often remarkable. Acetaminophen has not
been shown to be a superior analgesic for acute rheumatic fever. Gabapentin is not indicated, especially
considering that the pain does not have a neuropathic etiology. Opioids would not be considered first-line
treatment because of their adverse effects and the dramatic response of NSAIDs alone.
Ref: Maness DL, Martin M, Mitchell G: Poststreptococcal illness: Recognition and management. Am Fam Physician
2018;97(8):517-522.
Item 173
ANSWER: C
A large cohort study indicated that the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease criterion
(FEV1/FVC ratio <70%) is more sensitive for COPD in individuals 65 years and older compared to the
American Thoracic Society criteria (SOR C). COPD is present if the FEV1/FVC ratio is reduced to <70%
and is irreversible with bronchodilator therapy. A reversible response to bronchodilator therapy is more
consistent with asthma.
Ref: Johnson JD, Theurer WM: A stepwise approach to the interpretation of pulmonary function tests. Am Fam Physician
2014;89(5):359-366.
62