Home care and reevaluation in 24 hours

Most children will be evaluated for a febrile illness before 36 months of age, with the majority having a self-limited viral illness.  Nontoxic-appearing febrile infants 29-90 days of age who have a negative screening laboratory workup, including a CBC with differential and a normal urinalysis, can be sent home and followed up in 24 hours (SOR B).  A second option is to obtain blood cultures and stool studies, or a chest film if indicated by the history or examination, and spinal fluid studies if empiric antibiotics are to be given.  This infant’s clinical status did not indicate that any of these additional studies should be performed, and empiric antibiotic treatment is not planned. Observation with no follow-up is an appropriate strategy in nontoxic children, but only if the child is 3-36 months of age and the temperature is under 39°C (SOR B).  Nontoxic children 3-36 months of age should be reevaluated in 24-48 hours if the temperature is over 39°C.  Although a positive response to antipyretics has been considered an indication of a lower risk of serious bacterial infection, there is no correlation between fever reduction and the likelihood of such an infection. Any infant younger than 29 days, and any infant or child with a toxic appearance regardless of age, should undergo a complete sepsis workup and be admitted for observation until culture results are obtained or the source of the fever is found and treated (SOR A). Ref: Sur DK, Bukont EL: Evaluating fever of unidentifiable source in young children. Am Fam Physician 2007;75(12):1805-1811.