Order a CBC, chemistry panel, stool for occult blood, and TSH

There should be a rational approach to evaluating weight loss in an elderly patient.  The workup should be directed by findings in the history and physical examination, with special emphasis given to neurologic and psychosocial aspects.  Unless the history or physical examination point in a specific direction, standard tests should be performed first, including a CBC, chemistry panel, stool for occult blood, and TSH level.  Although the etiology of unintentional weight loss in the elderly is malignancy in 16%-36% of such cases, specific tests are not indicated before CT. Medications, including SSRIs, NSAIDs, bupropion, digoxin, and metformin can cause weight loss; however, tricyclics often lead to weight gain.  Mirtazapine has been shown to increase appetite and promote weight gain.  Megestrol has been used successfully to treat cachexia in patients with AIDS or cancer.  When given in a dosage of at least 320 mg/day, megestrol has produced weight gain, but side effects of edema, constipation, and delirium may limit its usefulness.  Lower dosages may be effective for stimulating weight gain in frail elderly patients, although this approach needs to be tested in randomized, controlled trials.  In the patient described, a workup seeking the etiology of the weight loss should begin promptly. Ref: Bouras EP, Lange SM, Scolapio JS: Rational approach to patients with unintentional weight loss. Mayo Clin Proc 2001;76(9):923-929.  2) Huffman GB: Evaluating and treating unintentional weight loss in the elderly. Am Fam Physician 2002;65(4):640-650.  3) Alibhai SM, Greenwood C, Payette H: An approach to the management of unintentional weight loss in elderly people. CMAJ 2005;172(6):773-780.