Intravenous immune globulin and aspirin

Kawasaki disease, or mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome, is a common form of vasculitis in childhood. It is typically self-limited, with fever and acute inflammation lasting 12 days on average without therapy. However, if untreated, this illness can result in heart failure, coronary artery aneurysm, myocardial infarction, arrhythmias, or occlusion of peripheral arteries. It is most common in those under the age of 5 years. To diagnose this disease, fever must be present for 5 days or more with no other explanation. In addition, at least four of the following symptoms must be present: 1) nonexudative conjunctivitis that spares the limbus; 2) changes in the oral membranes such as diffuse erythema, injected or fissured lips, or “strawberry tongue”; 3) erythema of palms and soles, and/or edema of the hands or feet followed by periungual desquamation; 4) cervical adenopathy in the anterior cervical triangle with at least one node larger than 1.5 cm in diameter; and, 5) an erythematous polymorphous rash, which may be targetoid or purpuric in 20% of cases. The disease must be distinguished from toxic shock syndrome, streptococcal scarlet fever, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, measles, adenovirus infection, echovirus infection, and drug reactions. Treatment significantly diminishes the risk of complications. Current recommendations are to hospitalize the patient for treatment with intravenous immune globulin. In addition, aspirin is used for both its anti-inflammatory and antithrombolitic effects. While prednisone is used to treat other forms of vasculitis, it is considered unsafe in Kawasaki disease, as a previous study showed an extraordinarily high rate of coronary artery aneurysm with its use. Ref: Sundel R: Diagnosis and treatment of Kawasaki disease. UpToDate, 2004. 2) Behrman RE, Kliegman RM, Jenson HB (eds): Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics, ed 17. Saunders, 2004, pp 823-826.