Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy

Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy is rare, occurring in 0.01% of pregnancies. It usually presents in the third trimester. Approximately 80% of patients present with pruritus alone, and another 20% with jaundice and pruritus. Laboratory results usually reveal normal or minimal elevation in transaminase levels, elevated bilirubin (usually <5 mg/dL), and occasional elevations in cholesterol and triglyceride levels. It is important to recognize and diagnose this entity, as it is associated with prematurity, fetal distress, and increased perinatal mortality. Acute viral hepatitis is a common cause of jaundice in pregnancy; however, it usually does not present with severe pruritus, and transaminase levels are markedly elevated. Acute fatty liver of pregnancy is another rare condition occurring in the third trimester and is usually associated with preeclampsia (50%–100% of cases). It presents with nausea and vomiting, anorexia, jaundice, abdominal pain, headache, and neurologic abnormalities. Transaminase levels are moderately elevated, PT and PTT are prolonged, and profound hypoglycemia and renal failure are usually present. Pruritic urticarial papules and plaques of pregnancy (PUPPP) is more common in women that present with severe pruritus. However, jaundice and liver function abnormalities are absent. HELLP syndrome is an uncommon but serious condition which presents in the third trimester with hemolysis, elevated transaminases, and low platelet count. Ref: Hunt CM, Sharara AI: Liver disease in pregnancy. Am Fam Physician 1999;59(4):829-836. 2) Gabbe SG, Niebyl JR, Simpson JL (eds): Obstetrics: Normal and Problem Pregnancies, ed 4. Churchill-Livingstone, 2002, pp 1218-1220.