The fetus is AT RISK for hemolytic disease only if the biological father is Rh-positive

When a person is Rh negative, this indicates that they do not have type D antigen on their red blood cells. If a woman is exposed to Rh D antigen–positive red blood cells, she can have an immune response of variable strength. This may occur in the setting of pregnancy (transplacental fetomaternal transfusion), or exposure outside of pregnancy (e.g., transfusion with mismatched blood). If a maternal antibody screen for D antigen is positive, this indicates that the current fetus MAY be at risk for hemolytic disease. The level of risk is determined by the antibody titer. For example, an antibody titer of 1:4 poses much less risk to the fetus than a titer of 1:64. Determination of the blood type of the father is helpful if paternity is certain. If the father is homozygous Rh negative, there is no risk of alloimmunization to the fetus and the fetus is NOT at risk for hemolytic disease. In this scenario, maternal sensitization occurred either from a prior pregnancy with a different partner or from another source (e.g., transfusion). If the father is heterozygous or homozygous Rh positive, then the fetus IS at risk. If paternity is uncertain, a polymerase chain reaction can be performed on 2 mL of amniotic fluid or 5 mL of chorionic villi to accurately determine the fetal Rh status. Ref: Scott JR, Gibbs RS, Karlan BY, et al (eds): Danforth’s Obstetrics and Gynecology, ed 9. Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2003, pp 319-320.