Adalimumab

Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors are currently approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) for the treatment of rheumatic diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis,
psoriatic arthritis, and juvenile idiopathic arthritis. All drugs in this class carry an FDA black-box warning
about the potential for developing primary tuberculosis or reactivating latent tuberculosis. These drugs are
also associated with an increased risk for invasive fungal infections and opportunistic bacterial and viral
diseases. The FDA also warns of reports of lymphomas and other malignancies in children and adolescents
taking these drugs.

A PPD skin test should be performed prior to initiating TFN-inhibitor therapy. An induration of 5 mm or
greater with tuberculin skin testing should be considered a positive test result when assessing whether
treatment for latent tuberculosis is necessary prior to TFN-inhibitor use, even for patients previously
vaccinated with bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) (SOR B).

Ankylosing spondylitis patients may develop fibrosis of the upper lung fields with long-standing disease,
but esomeprazole, ondansetron, and meloxicam do not cause reactivation of tuberculosis. Amiodarone is
associated with a subacute cough and progressive dyspnea due to pulmonary toxicity (patchy interstitial
infiltrates).

Ref: Hauck FR, Neese BH, Panchal AS, El-Amin W: Identification and management of latent tuberculosis infection. Am Fam
Physician 2009;79(10):879-886. 2) Information for healthcare professionals: Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blockers
(marketed as Remicade, Enbrel, Humira, Cimzia, and Simponi). US Food and Drug Administration, 2009. 3) Miller AV,
Ranatunga SK: Immunotherapies in rheumatologic disorders. Med Clin North Am 2012;96(3):475-496.