Acetaminophen/diphenhydramine (Tylenol PM), 500 mg/25 mg daily

Polypharmacy is common in the elderly population, but the use of numerous medications is necessary in some elderly patients. However, some medications have been identified as having a considerably higher potential to cause problems when prescribed to elderly patients.

In the case described, acetaminophen/diphenhydramine would be an appropriate medication to stop initially. The older antihistamines cause many adverse CNS effects such as cognitive slowing and delirium in older patients. These effects are more pronounced in elderly patients with some degree of preexisting cognitive impairment. The anticholinergic properties of older antihistamines produce effects such as dry mouth, constipation, blurred vision, and drowsiness. The sedative effect of older antihistamines also increases the risk of falls. Hip fracture and subsequent death have been reported in patients who use older antihistamines such as diphenhydramine.

Sertraline is an SSRI, a preferred class for the treatment of depression in the elderly compared to the tricyclic antidepressants, which are associated with several side effects. Dipyridamole is associated with hypotension in elderly patients, but it benefits some individuals by preventing strokes. It can be used in the elderly, but patients should be monitored for side effects. Therefore, until further information is obtained, it is appropriate to continue the dipyridamole/aspirin in this patient.
When used in elderly patients with heart failure, digoxin should be given in a dosage no greater than 0.125 mg daily; the low dosage used in this individual should not be considered inappropriate until the reason for its use is clarified. While omeprazole can cause problems in the elderly with long-term use, 20 mg/day is a relatively low dose and the decision to discontinue its use should be delayed until more history is available.

Ref:  Ramakrishnan K, Scheid DC: Treatment options for insomnia. Am Fam Physician 2007;76(4):517-526. 2) American Geriatrics Society 2012 Beers Criteria Update Expert Panel: American Geriatrics Society updated Beers Criteria for potentially inappropriate medication use in older adults. J Am Geriatric Soc 2012;60(4):616-631. 3) Pretorius RW, Gataric G, Swedlund SK, Miller JR: Reducing the risk of adverse drug events in older adults. Am Fam Physician 2013;87(5):331-336.