Migraine with aura

The World Health Organization (WHO) publishes the medical eligibility criteria for contraceptive use as a guideline for the appropriate use of contraceptives. There are four categories that define the appropriateness of contraceptive use in women with certain medical problems:

Category 1: A condition for which there is no restriction for the use of the contraceptive method.
Category 2: A condition for which the advantages of using the method generally outweigh the theoretical or proven risks.
Category 3: A condition for which the theoretical risk or proven risks usually outweigh the advantages of using the method.
Category 4: A condition that represents an unacceptable health risk if the contraceptive method is used.

A history of migraine with aura is classified as category 4 for oral contraceptives. Women with a history of migraines are 2–4 times as likely to have a stroke compared to women without migraines, and women who have an aura associated with their migraines are at even higher risk. Migraine without aura is classified as category 2 in women younger than 35 and category 3 in women 35 or older. Nonmigrainous headaches are category 1, as is chronic hepatitis C.

Combined oral contraceptive use does not appear to increase the rate or severity of cirrhotic fibrosis and there is no increased risk for hepatocellular carcinoma. Combined oral contraceptives are not recommended for use in women with acute hepatitis C. Breastfeeding is considered category 2 by the CDC and category 3 by WHO. There is conflicting evidence about the effects on the volume of breast milk in women who are on combined oral contraceptives, but the concerns are mainly during the first month of the postpartum period. There have not been any demonstrated adverse health effects in infants exposed to combined oral contraceptives through breast milk. Laparoscopic banding weight-loss surgery is category 1 for combined oral contraceptive use. Evidence shows no significant decrease in the effectiveness of oral contraceptives in women who have had this surgery. Combined oral contraceptive use in patients with endometrial hyperplasia is category 1. Combined oral contraceptives have been used to decrease the risk for endometrial cancer.