Chlamydia trachomatis

Chlamydial pneumonia is usually seen in infants 3–16 weeks of age, and these patients frequently have
been sick for several weeks. The infant appears nontoxic and is afebrile, but is tachypneic with a prominent
cough. The physical examination will reveal diffuse crackles with few wheezes, and conjunctivitis is
present in about 50% of cases. A chest film will show hyperinflation and diffuse interstitial or patchy
infiltrates.
Staphylococcal pneumonia has a sudden onset. The infant appears very ill and has a fever, and initially
may have an expiratory wheeze simulating bronchiolitis. Signs of abdominal distress, tachypnea, dyspnea,
and localized or diffuse bronchopneumonia or lobar disease may be present. The WBC count will show
a prominent leukocytosis.
Respiratory syncytial virus infections start with rhinorrhea and pharyngitis, followed in 1–3 days by a
cough and wheezing. Auscultation of the lungs will reveal diffuse rhonchi, fine crackles, and wheezes, but
the chest film is often normal. If the illness progresses, coughing and wheezing increase, air hunger and
intercostal retractions develop, and evidence of hyperexpansion of the chest is seen. In some infants the
course of the illness may be similar to that of pneumonia. Rash or conjunctivitis may occur occasionally,
and fever is an inconsistent sign. The WBC count will be normal or elevated, and the differential may be
normal or shifted either to the right or left. Chlamydial infections can be differentiated from respiratory
syncytial virus infections by a history of conjunctivitis, the subacute onset and absence of fever, and the
mild wheezing. There may also be eosinophilia.
Parainfluenza virus infection presents with typical cold symptoms. Eight percent of infections affect the
upper respiratory tract. In children hospitalized for severe respiratory illness, parainfluenza viruses account
for about 50% of the cases of laryngotracheitis and about 15% each of the cases of bronchitis,
bronchiolitis, and pneumonia.

Ref: Kliegman RM, Stanton BF, Geme JW III, et al (eds): Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics, ed 19. Elsevier Saunders, 2011, p
1037. 2) Mishori R, McClaskey EL, WinklerPrins VJ: Chlamydia trachomatis infections: Screening, diagnosis, and
management. Am Fam Physician 2012;86(12):1127-1132.