Asbestos

The inhalation of asbestos fibers may lead to a number of respiratory diseases, including lung cancer, asbestosis, pleural plaques, benign pleural effusion, and malignant mesothelioma. High-risk populations for asbestos exposure include individuals who worked in construction trades or as boilermakers, shipyard workers, or railroad workers, as well as U.S. Navy veterans. The occupational history helps to guide clinical suspicion in these high-risk populations. This patient is a retired U.S. Navy veteran who spent his entire career in ship maintenance and repair.

The patient history is not consistent with berylliosis, silicosis, or uranium exposure. Berylliosis is an occupational disease related to mining and manufacturing. Silicosis is seen in sandblasters, miners, persons who have worked with abrasives, and several other occupations. Uranium exposure occurs after nuclear reactor leaks or blasts. Uranium compounds are also used in photography and as dyes or fixatures. The chemical toxicity involves nonmalignant damage to alveolar cells. Iron oxide exposure is not known to be related to lung disease.

Ref:  O’Reilly KM, Mclaughlin AM, Beckett WS, Sime PJ: Asbestos-related lung disease. Am Fam Physician 2007;75(5):683-688. 2) State of Lung Disease in Diverse Communities, 2010. American Lung Association, 2010, pp 63-69. 3) Schraufnagel DE (ed): Breathing in America: Diseases, Progress, and Hope. American Thoracic Society, 2010, pp 131-144. 4) The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH): Work-Related Lung Disease Surveillance System (eWoRLD). Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2013.