Fluoxetine (Prozac)

The diagnostic criteria for depression are the same for children and adults, although the manner in which these symptoms present may be different. Adolescents with depression are more likely to experience anhedonia, boredom, hopelessness, hypersomnia, weight change, alcohol or drug use, and suicide attempts. Psychotherapy should always be included as part of a treatment plan for depression in adolescents.

Cognitive-behavioral therapy and interpersonal therapy are two modalities that have been proven effective in the treatment of adolescent depression. Medications should be considered for more severe depression or depression failing to respond to psychotherapy. A Cochrane review found that fluoxetine was the only agent with consistent evidence of effectiveness in decreasing depressive symptoms in adolescents. Consensus guidelines recommend fluoxetine, citalopram, or sertraline as first-line treatments for moderate to severe depression in children and adolescents. Escitalopram is also licensed for the treatment of depression in adolescents age 12 or older. All antidepressants have a boxed warning regarding an increased risk of suicide; therefore, close monitoring is recommended to assess for suicidality and other adverse effects, such as gastrointestinal effects, nervousness, headache, and restlessness. Tricyclic antidepressants were previously used to treat depression in children, but studies have shown little to no benefit in adolescents and children.

Ref:  Clark MS, Jansen KL, Cloy JA: Treatment of childhood and adolescent depression. Am Fam Physician 2012;86(5):442-448.