Mild persistent

Education of asthmatic patients is critically important in their follow-up care. This includes informing patients about the severity of their asthma in addition to instruction about appropriate treatment modalities. The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute’s National Asthma Education and Prevention Program uses the following definitions for asthma severity:

Intermittent: Symptoms less than or equal to twice weekly, nighttime awakenings ≤2 times/month, short-acting β-agonist usage ≤2 days/week, no interference with daily activities, and normal FEV1 and FEV1/FVC ratio at baseline

Mild Persistent: Symptoms >2 days/week but not daily, nighttime awakenings 3–4 times/month, short-acting β-agonist usage >2 days/week but not more than once daily, minor limitation to daily activities, FEV1 ≥80% predicted, and normal FEV1/FVC ratio

Moderate Persistent: Daily symptoms, nighttime awakenings greater than once weekly but not nightly, daily use of a short-acting β-agonist, some limitation to daily activity, FEV1 >60% but <80% of predicted, and FEV1/FVC ratio reduced by 5%

Severe Persistent: Symptoms throughout the day, nighttime awakenings nightly, short-acting β-agonist usage several times daily, extremely limited daily activities, FEV1 <60% of predicted, and FEV1/FVC ratio reduced by >5%

Status asthmaticus is a medical emergency and requires emergent treatment in a hospital setting.

Ref:  Expert Panel Report 3: Guidelines for the Diagnosis and Management of Asthma. National Asthma Education and Prevention Program, NIH pub no 07-4051, 2007. 2) Pollart SM, Elward KS: Overview of changes to asthma guidelines: Diagnosis and screening. Am Fam Physician 2009;79(9):761-767. 3) Pollart SM, Compton RM, Elward KS: Management of acute asthma exacerbations. Am Fam Physicians 2011;84(1):40-47.