The patient’s decision-making capacity can be adequately assessed by clinical evaluation

The primary care physician can assess decision-making capacity based on the patient’s ability to reason, communicate, understand the proposed treatment, and grasp the consequences of accepting or declining the suggested treatment.
Formal mental status testing and determination of capacity are different functions. Accurate mental status testing is helpful for assessing the capacity to make decisions, but there is not a specific score that determines capacity. However, there is a certain level of cognitive impairment where a patient simply lacks any ability to receive and process health information. At somewhat higher levels of cognition a patient might lack specific mental abilities, but still be able to satisfy the requirements for making treatment decisions. A recent meta-analysis showed that Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores below 20 increase the likelihood of incapacity (LR 6.3), scores of 20–24 have no effect (LR 0.87), and scores greater than 24 significantly lower the likelihood of incapacity (LR 0.17).

Determination of capacity does not require legal intervention or psychiatric expertise. While there is no specific test for decision-making capacity, there are instruments available to assist physicians with making these assessments. The best validated of these is the Aid to Capacity Evaluation (ACE), which is free and available online (http://www.jointcentreforbioethics.ca/tools/documents/ace.pdf). It can be administered in 10–20 minutes.

Competence is a legal term in this situation. Decisions regarding competence are judicial determinations of the capacity to make nonmedical decisions such as financial decisions. Under the law, adults are presumed to be competent until a specific action of the appropriate court declares otherwise.

Ref:  Sessums LL, Zembrzuska H, Jackson JL: Does this patient have medical decision-making capacity? JAMA 2011;306(4):420-427.