Rotator cuff tear

This patient has a history and physical findings that are consistent with a rotator cuff tear. Most commonly the mechanism of injury in an acute rotator cuff tear is forced abduction of the arm with significant resistance. Often this will occur when a person attempts to break a fall with an outstretched hand. There is usually a sudden sensation of tearing pain in the shoulder. Pain and muscle spasm will limit shoulder motion. Patients with a large tear cannot initiate shoulder abduction and will have a discrepancy between active and passive motion. Patients with significant tears will also have a positive drop arm test. This test is performed by passively abducting the arm to 90° and asking the patient to hold the arm in that position while the examiner applies pressure on the distal forearm or wrist. The test is positive if the pressure causes the arm to drop suddenly.
Acute tears are generally managed with a splint and orthopedic referral for surgical repair. Chronic tears may be managed with shoulder rehabilitation but may ultimately require surgical repair as well.

Bicipital tendinitis is not generally caused by acute trauma, but by irritation and microtrauma due to repetitive elevation or abduction of the shoulder, causing an inflammatory reaction in the synovial sheath. Patients generally present with a complaint of pain in the anterior shoulder that radiates into the upper arm. It is more painful with activity and is worse at night. Abduction and external rotation of the arm exacerbates the pain. On examination there should be point tenderness in the bicipital groove. Active range of motion will be limited by pain but passive range of motion will be intact. There should not be any weakness.
Acromioclavicular separation is usually caused by a fall or a direct blow to the point of the shoulder with the shoulder abducted. The pain associated with this injury is over the acromioclavicular joint margin and there may be swelling. Depending on the severity of the injury there may be full range of motion but it may be restricted due to pain. There should not be any weakness associated with this injury.

A fracture of the humeral head generally occurs with a fall on an outstretched arm or direct blow to the lateral side of the arm. Generally there is pain or bruising over the fracture site. Movement will be restricted by pain, but there should not be any weakness.

A tear of the labrum can occur with acute trauma or from repetitive shoulder motion. Acute trauma may occur from a dislocation of the shoulder, falling on an outstretched arm, or direct blows to the shoulder. Generally, people with a tear of the labrum will have increased pain with overhead activity, popping or grinding, loss of strength, and trouble locating a specific point of pain.

Ref:  House J, Mooradian A: Evaluation and management of shoulder pain in primary care clinics. South Med J
2010;103(11):1129-1135. 2) Marx JA (ed): Rosen’s Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice, ed 7. Mosby
Elsevier, 2010, pp 586-587.