Close observation only

The result of neonatal varicella infection can be catastrophic, with a fatality rate approaching 30%. Maternal immunity is ideal, but since varicella vaccination is contraindicated during pregnancy the best alternative is advising the patient to avoid contact with infected individuals until safe postpartum immunization is possible. Maternal varicella infection is particularly problematic during weeks 13–20 of pregnancy (resulting in a 2% risk of congenital varicella in the newborn) and when the onset of maternal symptoms occurs from 5 days before until 2 days after delivery.

Administration of varicella immune globulin to the expectant mother has not been shown to benefit the fetus or infant, but because pregnancy can increase the risk of serious complications in the mother the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommends that administration to pregnant women be considered following known exposure. The ACIP also recommends that term infants born within the 7-day window described above, as well as all preterm infants, receive varicella immune globulin, and that those who develop any signs of varicella infection also be given intravenous acyclovir. Term infants delivered more than 5 days after the onset of maternal varicella are thought to have adequate passive immunity for protection and the expected benign course generally requires only observation.

Ref:  Duff P: Diagnosis and management of varicella infection in pregnancy. Perinatology 2010;1(1):6-12.  2) Atkinson W,
Hambersky J, Stanton A, Wolfe C (eds): Epidemiology and Prevention of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases, ed 12. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention, 2011, pp 301-324.