Progestational drugs

Medical therapy with progestational drugs is the treatment of choice for menorrhagia due to endometrial hyperplasia without atypia. Progestins convert the proliferative endometrium to a secretory one, causing withdrawal bleeding and the regression of hyperplasia. The most commonly used form is cyclic oral medroxyprogesterone, given 14 days per month, but implanted intrauterine levonorgestrel is the most effective (SOR A) and also provides contraception.
High-dose estrogen supplementation would further stimulate the endometrium. Estrogen is useful in cases where minimal estrogen stimulation is associated with breakthrough bleeding. The anti-fibrinolytic agent tranexamic acid prevents the activation of plasminogen and is given at the beginning of the cycle to decrease bleeding. Side effects and cost limit this treatment option, however. It may be most useful in women with bleeding disorders or with contraindications to hormonal therapy.
NSAIDs, which decrease prostaglandin levels, reduce menstrual bleeding but not as effectively as progestins. While mefenamic acid is marketed for menstrual cramps and bleeding, all NSAIDs have a similar effect in this regard.
If medical management fails, hysteroscopic endometrial ablation is an option for reducing uterine bleeding but is considered permanent and obviously will impair fertility. Hysterectomy is reserved for severe and chronic bleeding that is not relieved by other measures.

Ref:  Sweet MG, Schmidt-Dalton TA, Weiss PM, Madsen KP: Evaluation and management of abnormal uterine bleeding in premenopausal women. Am Fam Physician 2012;85(1):35-43.