Educate the parents about positioning and follow up in 2 months

The parallelogram shape of this infant’s head is typical of positional skull deformity, also known as benign positional molding or occipital plagiocephaly. This condition has been estimated to be present in at least 1 in 300 infants, with some studies showing milder variants in up to 48% of healthy infants. The incidence of positional skull deformity is increased in children who sleep in the supine position, but switching to prone sleeping is not recommended because this would increase the risk of sudden infant death syndrome. The deformity can be prevented by routine switching of the dependent side of the infant’s head. Supervised “tummy time” for 30–60 minutes each day can also decrease the amount of flattening and can increase the child’s motor development. Children who have positional skull deformity should also be screened for torticollis. This condition can prevent correct positioning and is remedied with physical therapy techniques.

Positional skull deformity should be differentiated from cranial synostosis, which is the result of abnormal fusion of one or more of the sutures between the skull bones. Ipsilateral frontal bossing and ear advancement are not seen, resulting in a trapezoid-shaped head.

Most infants with positional skull deformity improve within 2–3 months with the institution of positional changes and tummy time. If the condition does not significantly improve after this amount of time, referral to a pediatric neurosurgeon with expertise in craniofacial malformations would be appropriate.

Ref:  Laughlin J, Luerssen TG, Dias MS; Committee on Practice and Ambulatory Medicine, Section on Neurological Surgery: Prevention and management of positional skull deformities in infants. Pediatrics 2011;128(6):1236-1241.