Better short-term weight loss than with a low-fat diet

Emerging data on low-carbohydrate diets is mostly encouraging, in that these diets do not seem to cause the expected increases in blood pressure, LDL-cholesterol levels, or triglyceride levels that the medical community had first assumed. Although low-carbohydrate diets have been shown to result in clinically meaningful weight loss, reduced-calorie diets appear to result in similar weight loss regardless of which macronutrients they emphasize. This patient has symptoms of metabolic syndrome and has a higher risk of glucose intolerance or diabetes mellitus. Low-carbohydrate diets have been shown to reduce insulin resistance at least as well as, if not better than, traditional diet plans.

Ref:  Nordmann AJ, Nordmann A, Briel M, et al: Effects of low-carbohydrate vs low-fat diets on weight loss and cardiovascular risk factors: A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Arch Intern Med 2006;166(3):285-293. 2) Barker LR, Burton JR, Zieve PD (eds): Principles of Ambulatory Medicine, ed 7. Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, 2007, p 1429. 3) Gardner CD, Kiazand A, Alhassan S, et al: Comparison of the Atkins, Zone, Ornish, and LEARN diets for change in weight and related risk factors among overweight premenopausal women: The A TO Z Weight Loss Study: A randomized trial. JAMA 2007;297(9):969-977. 4) Sacks FM, Bray GA, Carey VJ, et al: Comparison of weight-loss diets with different compositions of fat, protein, and carbohydrates. N Engl J Med 2009;360(9):859-873. 5) Longo DL, Fauci AS, Kasper DL, et al (eds): Harrison’s Principles of Internal Medicine, ed 18. McGraw-Hill, 2012, p 633.