A β-blocker

American Heart Association guidelines recommend treating hypertension in patients with stable heart failure with ACE inhibitors and/or β-blockers. Other agents, such as thiazide diuretics or calcium channel blockers, can be added if needed to achieve blood pressure goals (SOR B). β-Blockers with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity should be avoided, as they increase myocardial oxygen demand.

While thiazide diuretics are often a first choice for uncomplicated hypertension, this is not the case for patients with coronary artery disease. Long-acting calcium channel blockers may be used in patients who do not tolerate β-blockers, but short-acting calcium channel blockers should be avoided because they increase mortality. ACE inhibitors are recommended as antihypertensive agents in patients already on β-blocker therapy (especially following myocardial infarction), in diabetics, and in patients with left ventricular dysfunction. Although angiotensin receptor blockers have indications similar to those of ACE inhibitors, the American Heart Association recommends using them only in patients who do not tolerate ACE inhibitors. Long-acting nitrates are used for their anti-anginal properties and have no role in the management of hypertension.

Ref:  Pflieger M, Winslow BT, Mills K, Dauber IM: Medical management of stable coronary artery disease. Am Fam Physician 2011;83(7):819-826. 2) Fihn SD, Gardin JM, Abrams J, et al: 2012 ACCF/AHA/ACP/AATS/PCNA/SCAI/STS guideline for the diagnosis and management of patients with stable ischemic heart disease: A report of the American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association task force on practice guidelines, and the American College of Physicians, American Association for Thoracic Surgery, Preventive Cardiovascular Nurses Association, Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions, and Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Circulation 2012;126(25):e354-e471.