Meniere’s disease

This patient’s symptoms are compatible with Meniere’s disease, which is characterized by multiple episodes of vertigo lasting for 20–120 minutes, accompanied by a fluctuating hearing loss, tinnitus, and a sense of aural fullness. Audiograms will reveal a low-frequency hearing loss with an upsloping curve, which can become flattened over the years. Most patients develop unilateral symptoms, and many patients will develop bilateral disease many years after the onset of the unilateral symptoms. Multiple studies have reported the rate of bilateral Meniere's disease to be as high as 50% many years after the initial diagnosis.

Motion sickness is a common cause of nausea, but the nausea usually does not come on suddenly and is not as pronounced as with Meniere’s disease. A vestibular migraine can present like a sudden Meniere’s disease attack but in this patient the audiograms, tinnitus, and aural fullness suggest Meniere’s disease. Benign positional vertigo is very common, and hearing loss could be an incidental finding. However, the most common form of age-related hearing loss is seen at the higher frequencies. Positional vertigo like this patient has is common between attacks of Meniere’s disease.

There is often a family history of Meniere’s disease, and there is frequently an association with allergies. The condition can also get worse with caffeine use. Even though the diagnosis is clinical, MRI and blood tests are recommended to rule out other conditions that may be putting pressure on the endolymphatic system and thus causing the symptoms.

Ref:  Sajjadi H, Paparella MM: Meniere’s disease. Lancet 2008;372(9636):406-414.