Fetal alcohol syndrome

The child described has facial features characteristic of fetal alcohol syndrome. Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD) are caused by the effects of maternal alcohol consumption during pregnancy. Fetal alcohol syndrome is the most clinically recognized form of FASD and is characterized by a pattern of minor facial anomalies, including a thin upper lip, a smooth philtrum, and a flat nasal bridge; other physical anomalies, such as clinodactyly; prenatal and postnatal growth retardation; and functional or structural central nervous system abnormalities.

Children with Down syndrome have hypotonia, a flat face, upward and slanted palpebral fissures and epicanthic folds, and speckled irises (Brushfield spots); varying degrees of mental and growth retardation; dysplasia of the pelvis; cardiac malformations; a simian crease; short, broad hands; hypoplasia of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger; and a high, arched palate.

Marfan syndrome is characterized by pectus carinatum or pectus excavatum, an arm span to height ratio >1.05, a positive wrist and thumb sign, limited elbow extension, pes planus, and aortic ascendens dilatation with or without aortic regurgitation.
The bilateral renal agenesis seen with Potter syndrome leads to death shortly after birth. Other anomalies include widely separated eyes with epicanthic folds, low-set ears, a broad and flat nose, a receding chin, and limb anomalies.

Finally, Prader-Willi syndrome is characterized by severe hypotonia at birth, obesity, short stature (responsive to growth hormone), small hands and feet, hypogonadism, and mental retardation.

Ref:  Wattendorf DJ, Muenke M: Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders. Am Fam Physician 2005;72(2):279-282, 285. 2) Kliegman
RM, Stanton BF, Geme JW III, et al (eds): Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics, ed 19. Elsevier Saunders, 2011, pp 400-403,
412-413, 625-626, 1827, 2240-2246.