Pulmonary edema

Until recently, the number of heroin overdoses had been in decline for the past few decades. Although heroin still only accounts for about 1% of drug overdoses, it has become more common in the past few years. Overdose is manifested by CNS depression and hypoventilation. Clinical clues include pupillary miosis and a decreasing respiratory rate in the presence of a semi-wakeful state. In addition to hypoventilation, a multifactorial acute lung injury occurs within 2–4 hours of the overdose and is associated with hypoxemia and a hypersensitivity reaction, resulting in noncardiogenic pulmonary edema. Findings include hypoxia, crackles on lung auscultation, and pink, frothy sputum. Treatment must include respiratory support with intubation, mechanical ventilation, and oxygen, as well as opiate reversal with naloxone, which may require repeat doses or intravenous infusion.

Arrhythmias and myocardial ischemia/infarction do not occur as direct pharmacologic effects of heroin, although they may occur as a consequence of the pulmonary toxicity or the presence of other drugs taken intentionally or otherwise (i.e., heroin cut with other agents). Acute renal injury, hepatic injury, and thromboembolic events are also not a direct result of the pharmacologic effects of heroin.

Ref:  Shannon MW, Borron SW, Burns M: Haddad and Winchester’s Clinical Management of Poisoning and Drug Overdose,
ed 4. Saunders Elsevier, 2007, pp 644-645. 2) Li W, Gunja N: Illicit drug overdose: Prevalence and acute management.
Aust Fam Physician 2013;42(7):481-485.