No immunization

The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) periodically makes recommendations for routine or postexposure immunization for a number of preventable diseases, including tetanus. Since 2005, the recommendation for tetanus prophylaxis has included coverage not only for diphtheria (Td) but also pertussis, due to waning immunity in the general population. The current recommendation for adults who require a tetanus booster (either as a routine vaccination or as part of treatment for a wound) is to use the pertussis-containing Tdap unless it has been less than 5 years since the last booster in someone who has completed the primary vaccination series.

In this scenario, no additional vaccination is needed at this time, since the patient is certain of completing the primary vaccinations and received a tetanus booster within the previous 5 years. Had the interval been longer than 5 years, then a single dose of Tdap would be appropriate unless his previous booster was Tdap. Tetanus immune globulin is recommended in addition to tetanus vaccine for wounds that are tetanus-prone due to contamination and tissue damage in persons with an uncertain primary vaccine history. Plain tetanus toxoid (TT) is usually indicated only when the diphtheria component is contraindicated, which is uncommon.

Ref:  Kretsinger K, Broder KR, Cortese MM, et al: Preventing tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis among adults: Use of tetanus toxoid, reduced diphtheria toxoid and acellular pertussis vaccine recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) and recommendation of ACIP, supported by the Healthcare Infection Control Practices Advisory Committee (HICPAC), for use of Tdap among health-care personnel. MMWR Recomm Rep 2006;55(RR-17):1-37. 2) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC): Updated recommendations for use of tetanus toxoid, reduced diphtheria toxoid and acellular pertussis (Tdap) vaccine from the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, 2010. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2011;60(1):13-15. 3) Bader MS, McKinsey DS: Postexposure prophylaxis for common infectious diseases. Am Fam Physician 2013;88(1):25-32.