Rocky Mountain spotted fever

While all of the conditions listed are in the differential diagnosis, the most likely in this patient is Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) (SOR C). It is transmitted by ticks and occurs throughout the United States, but is primarily found in the South Atlantic and South Central states. It is most common in the summer and with exposure to tall vegetation from activities such as camping, hiking, or gardening. The diagnosis is based on clinical criteria that include fever, hypotension, rash, myalgia, vomiting, and headache (sometimes severe). The rash associated with RMSF usually appears 2–4 days after the onset of fever and begins as small, pink, blanching macules on the ankles, wrists, or forearms that evolve into maculopapules. It can occur anywhere on the body, including the palms and soles, but the face is usually spared.

Mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome is a similar condition in children (usually <2 years old), but symptoms include changes in the lips and oral cavity, such as strawberry tongue, redness and cracking of the lips, and erythema of the oropharyngeal mucosa. Leptospirosis is usually accompanied by severe cutaneous hyperesthesia. The patient with scarlet fever usually has prominent pharyngitis and a fine, papular, erythematous rash. Toxic shock syndrome may present in a similar fashion, but usually in postmenarchal females.

Ref: Huntzinger A: Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of tick-borne rickettsial diseases. Am Fam Physician
2007;76(1):137-139. 2) Longo DL, Fauci AS, Kasper DL, et al (eds): Harrison’s Principles of Internal Medicine, ed 18.
McGraw-Hill, 2012, pp 1407-1410.