Mohs micrographic surgery

Basal cell carcinoma is the most common invasive malignant cutaneous neoplasm in humans. The tumor rarely metastasizes but it can advance by direct extension and can destroy normal tissue. Approximately 85% of all basal cell carcinomas occur on the head and neck, with 25%–30% on the nose. Lesions on the nose, eyelid, chin, jaw, and ear have higher recurrence rates than lesions in other locations. A biopsy is necessary to make a definitive diagnosis prior to treatment. Excision is preferred for larger tumors with well-defined borders, but wide margins are not necessary. It is very difficult to perform this surgery with a primary closure around the nose. For lesions around the nose, especially those >1 cm, Mohs micrographic surgery is the preferred treatment. This is a microscopically controlled technique that facilitates removal of the entire lesion with the least amount of tissue removed.

Imiquimod is an immune response modifier that can be used on superficial basal cell carcinomas but should not be used for a site with a high risk of recurrence. Electrodesiccation and curettage is effective for smaller nodular basal cell carcinomas. Cryotherapy is not recommended.

Ref:  Habif TP: Clinical Dermatology: A Color Guide to Diagnosis and Therapy, ed 5. Mosby Elsevier, 2010, pp 801-811. 2)
Kundu RV, Patterson S: Dermatologic conditions in skin of color: Part I. Special considerations for common skin disorders.
Am Fam Physician 2013;87(12):850-856.