Antibiotic treatment

Acute epididymitis is often the result of descending infection caused by urinary tract pathogens. When the
infection involves the epididymis and testis (epididymo-orchitis), sonography will frequently show an
enlarged heterogeneous testis with increased color flow.

In sexually active men under age 35, acute epididymitis is caused most frequently by Chlamydia
trachomatis and less commonly by Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Clinical features suggestive of urethritis may
be absent (subclinical urethritis). Epididymitis in men who have practiced unprotected insertive rectal
intercourse is often caused by Enterobacteriaceae. These men usually do not have urethritis but do have
bacteriuria. Treatment of acute epididymo-orchitis consists of administering appropriate antibiotics for the
treatment of both gonorrhea and Chlamydia infections. Additional antibiotic coverage may be indicated
based on the patient’s sexual history.

Unilateral absent flow on color and spectral Doppler sonography is a highly sensitive and specific finding
in acute testicular torsion and emergent urology referral is indicated. Heterogeneous echotexture of the
testis is a common finding in sonograms performed to evaluate acute scrotal pain, regardless of the cause.
There is no role for repeat ultrasonography or watchful waiting in patients with acute epididymo-orchitis
(SOR C).

Ref: Stengel JW, Remer EM: Sonography of the scrotum: Case-based review. AJR Am J Roentgenol 2008;190(6
Suppl):S35-S41. 2) Longo DL, Fauci AS, Kasper DL, et al (eds): Harrison’s Principles of Internal Medicine, ed 18.
McGraw-Hill, 2012, pp 1095-1111.