Carbon monoxide poisoning

Carbon monoxide (CO) exposure most commonly results from fuel combustion in heaters, stoves, or
automobiles, so it is most often seen during cold periods when people are in closed quarters. Symptoms
include headache, nausea, vomiting, and weakness, and patients have a flushed complexion, so symptoms
are commonly attributed to viral flu-like illnesses. CO poisoning results in the formation of
carboxyhemoglobin, which does not carry oxygen. All oxygen-carrying sites are occupied by CO, which
has such a high affinity for hemoglobin that oxygen cannot displace it. If a patient has a
carboxyhemoglobin level of 25%, and their hemoglobin level is 12 mg/dL, their effective hemoglobin level
is only 9 mg/dL since 25% of their hemoglobin is not carrying oxygen. If the carboxyhemoglobin level
is 25%, then the maximum oxygen saturation that can be attained is 75%. However, a pulse oximeter will
show an oxygen saturation of 100% because the color of carboxyhemoglobin is bright red, which is what
the pulse oximeter is detecting. Thus, pulse oximetry is not reliable in patients with CO poisoning.
Similarly, arterial blood gas measurements are based on oxygen gas tension (pO2) and not oxygen content
or true oxygen saturation. The only arterial blood gas abnormality in CO poisoning may be metabolic
acidosis, which is a consequence of inadequate oxygen delivery to the peripheral tissues. This causes an
anaerobic metabolism and lactic acid production, but is not seen early in CO poisoning. Serious cases of
pneumonia, ARDS, or methemoglobinemia would produce abnormalities on pulse oximetry or arterial
blood gas measurements. To detect CO poisoning it would be necessary to order either a CO level or a
co-oximetry test.

Ref: Tintinalli JE, Kelen GD, Stapczynski JS (eds): Emergency Medicine: A Comprehensive Study Guide, ed 7. McGraw-Hill,
2011, pp 1410-1413.