Sertraline

SSRIs are the most commonly used medications for postpartum depression. They have fewer side effects and are considered safer than tricyclic antidepressants, especially in depressed women who may be at increased risk for medication overdose (SOR C). In one study, infant serum levels of sertraline and paroxetine were undetectable. It is also recommended that a woman with postpartum depression be started on a medication that she had taken previously with a good response, unless there is evidence of potential harm to her infant (SOR C).

Tricyclic antidepressants are excreted into breast milk and there is some concern regarding potential toxicity to the newborn. Phenytoin, diazepam, and zolpidem are not antidepressants. Phenytoin and diazepam are Category D for use in pregnant women. Diazepam is potentially toxic to infants and can accumulate in breastfed infants, and it is not recommended for lactating women (SOR C). Zolpidem is category B in pregnancy and probably acceptable for use in lactating women if clinically indicated.

Ref:  Weissman AM, Levy BT, Hartz AJ, et al: Pooled analysis of antidepressant levels in lactating mothers, breast milk, and nursing infants. Am J Psychiatry 2004;161(6):1066-1078. 2) ACOG Committee on Practice Bulletins—Obstetrics: ACOG Practice Bulletin: Clinical management guidelines for obstetrician-gynecologists number 92, April 2008 (replaces practice bulletin number 87, November 2007). Use of psychiatric medications during pregnancy and lactation. Obstet Gynecol 2008;111(4):1001-1020. 3) Dennis CL, Allen K: Interventions (other than pharmacological, psychosocial or psychological) for treating antenatal depression. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2008;(4):CD006795. 4) Hirst KP, Moutier CY: Postpartum major depression. Am Fam Physician 2010;82(8):926-933.