Handwashing with soap and water

Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) may be transmitted by direct contact with an infected patient, by contact with a contaminated environment, or by contact with a health care worker with transient hand colonization. Effective prevention efforts are essential to limit the spread from one patient to another in the hospital and other health care settings. Although alcohol-based hand antiseptics have been shown to increase compliance with hand hygiene and reduce the incidence of MRSA and VRE infections, alcohol does not kill the spore form of C. difficile and the use of these antiseptics does not reduce the incidence of CDI. There is insufficient data to support the widespread use of probiotics for prevention of CDI, and there is a potential risk of bloodstream infection with their use.

Health care workers rarely become colonized with C. difficile, and screening them has not been shown to affect nosocomial transmission rates. Handwashing with soap and water removes C. difficile from the hands of health care workers and remains the cornerstone of prevention efforts. Additional contact precautions such as the use of gloves and gowns may also be helpful. CDI is not transmitted by the respiratory route, so the use of respiratory isolation techniques is not helpful.

Ref:  Cohen SH, Gerding DN, Johnson S, et al: Clinical practice guidelines for Clostridium difficile infection in adults: 2010 update by the Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America (SHEA) and the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA). Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol 2010;31(5):431-455. 2) Winslow BT, Onysko M, Thompson KA, et al: Common questions about Clostridium difficile infection. Am Fam Physician 2014;89(6):437-442.