Pneumocystis pneumonia

The most likely diagnosis is Pneumocystis pneumonia. Initially named Pneumocystis carinii, the causative organism has been reclassified and renamed Pneumocystis jiroveci. It causes disease in immunocompromised patients. In non–HIV-infected patients, the most significant risk factors are defects in cell-mediated immunity, glucocorticoid therapy, use of immunosuppressive agents (especially when dosages are being lowered), hematopoietic stem cell or solid organ transplant, cancer, primary immunodeficiencies, and severe malnutrition.

The clinical presentation in patients without HIV/AIDS is typically an acute onset of hypoxia and respiratory failure, associated with a dry cough and fever. Characteristic radiographic findings include diffuse bilateral interstitial infiltrates.

Pneumococcal pneumonia typically presents with fever, chills, cough, and pleuritic chest pain. A sudden onset of severe hypoxia is less common. Radiologic findings typically include lobar infiltrates or bronchopneumonia (with a segmental pattern of infiltrate), whereas diffuse bilateral infiltrates are much less common. Staphylococcal pneumonia usually has radiologic findings of focal, multiple infiltrates or cavitary lesions.

Pulmonary tuberculosis presents most commonly with pleuritic or retrosternal chest pain. Fever is present in about 25% of patients. Cough is actually less common, and a sudden onset of acute hypoxia would be a very rare presentation. Radiographs typically reveal hilar adenopathy and pleural effusion. Diffuse bilateral interstitial infiltrates would be a very rare finding.

Spontaneous pneumothorax does present with an acute onset of hypoxia, tachypnea, and respiratory distress. However, fever would be unlikely and the radiologic findings in this patient are not consistent with pneumothorax.

Ref: Wilkin A, Feinberg J: Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia: A clinical review. Am Fam Physician 1999;60(6):1699-1708, 1713-1714. 2) Gilroy SA, Bennett NJ: Pneumocystis pneumonia. Semin Respir Crit Care Med 2011;32(6):775-782.