HLA-B27

This patient’s back pain is most consistent with an inflammatory cause rather than a mechanical cause. Morning stiffness and improvement with physical activity are key features of inflammatory back pain. Ankylosing spondylitis (AS), one subset of the broader diagnostic category of axial spondyloarthritis, is the likely diagnosis in this patient. Delays in diagnosis are common due to the widespread presence of mechanical low back pain. The identification of patients with inflammatory back pain is important, because early intervention with disease-modifying agents can preserve long-term joint function. HLA-B27 is found in 74%–89% of patients with AS and it can be diagnostic in a patient with typical inflammatory back pain symptoms.

Inflammatory markers such as the erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein are often elevated in patients with AS but are not specific to this diagnosis. Rheumatoid arthritis is not a likely cause of back pain in this patient without any other joint findings. Antinuclear antibody testing can assist in the diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus, which can cause an inflammatory arthritis, but it is similarly nonspecific and lupus typically has other findings in addition to back pain.

Ref: Taurog JD, Chhabra A, Colbert RA: Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis. N Engl J Med 2016;374(26):2563-2574.  2) Strand V, Singh JA: Evaluation and management of the patient with suspected inflammatory spine disease. Mayo Clin Proc 2017;92(4):555-564.