Group A Streptococcus

This patient has rapidly progressive erythema and pain in her right lower extremity, along with fever, tachycardia, and leukocytosis. Group A Streptococcus (GAS) is a common monomicrobial cause of type II necrotizing skin infections, which are often referred to as necrotizing fasciitis and warrant immediate attention (SOR C). Type I infections are often polymicrobial due to combinations of staphylococci (especially Staphylococcus epidermidis in combination with p-hemolytic streptococci), enterococci, Enterobacteriaceae species (commonly Escherichia coli, Proteus mirabilis, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa), streptococci, Bacteroides/Prevotella species, anaerobic gram-positive cocci, and Clostridium species.

For this patient with a suspected necrotizing skin infection, aggressive treatment with a broad-spectrum empiric antibiotic is recommended along with hemodynamic support and consideration of surgical exploration and debridement of necrotic tissue (SOR C). Empiric antibiotic treatment of a potential necrotizing infection should consist of broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy with activity against gram-positive, gram-negative, and anaerobic organisms; special consideration should be given to group A Streptococcus, Clostridium species, and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA).

Ref: Hasham S, Matteucci P, Stanley PR, Hart NB: Necrotising fasciitis. BMJ 2005;330(7495):830-833. 2) Stevens DL, Bisno AL, Chambers HF, et al: Practice guidelines for the diagnosis and management of skin and soft-tissue infections. Clin Infect Dis 2005;41(10):1373-1406. 3) Anaya DA, Dellinger EP: Necrotizing soft-tissue infection: Diagnosis and management. Clin Infect Dis 2007;44(5):705-710. 4) Department of Health and Human Services: Group A Streptococcal (GAS) Disease (strep throat, necrotizing fasciitis, impetigo). Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2008.  5) Breen JO: Skin and soft tissue infections in immunocompetent patients. Am Fam Physician 2010;81(7):893-899.