Reassess the need for oxygen within 3 months

The American College of Chest Physicians and the American Thoracic Society recommend that for patients discharged on supplemental home oxygen following hospitalization for an acute illness, the prescription for home oxygen should not be renewed without assessing the patient for ongoing hypoxemia (SOR C). The rationale for this recommendation is that hypoxemia often resolves after recovery from an acute illness. The guidelines recommend that a plan be established to reassess the patient no later than 90 days after discharge and that Medicare guidelines and evidence-based criteria should be followed to determine whether the patient meets the criteria for supplemental oxygen.

Continuous oxygen therapy is indicated in patients with COPD and severe hypoxemia. There is good evidence that the addition of home long-term continuous oxygen therapy for COPD increases survival rates in patients with severe hypoxemia, defined as an oxygen saturation <90% or a PaO2 <8 kPa (60 mm Hg), but not in patients with moderate hypoxemia or nocturnal desaturation.

Continuous supplemental oxygen should be used to improve exercise performance and survival in patients with moderate to severe COPD who have severe daytime hypoxemia. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) provides guidelines for supplemental oxygen therapy and sets the standard for nearly all adult oxygen prescriptions. According to these standards, oxygen therapy is covered for patients with a documented PaO2 :55 mm Hg or an oxygen saturation :88% on room air at rest.