Outpatient treatment with oral azithromycin (Zithromax)

This patient’s presentation is consistent with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). Pathogens commonly involved include viruses such as influenza, as well as Mycoplasma pneumoniae and Streptococcus pneumoniae. This patient’s history and findings are most consistent with early lobar pneumonia, given the sputum production, presence of rales, and radiographic findings, and empiric antibiotic treatment is most appropriate. His premorbid history of good health and the lack of findings such as confusion, tachypnea, hypotension, or multilobar infiltrates that would indicate severe CAP make outpatient antibiotic treatment the most appropriate option. He is outside of the time frame when anti-influenza treatments would be expected to be effective, even if influenza seemed likely.

For previously healthy individuals who have not taken antibiotics in the previous 3 months the most appropriate treatment for CAP is empiric treatment with an oral macrolide such as azithromycin, clarithromycin, or erythromycin (level I evidence) or doxycycline (level III evidence). In the presence of comorbidities such as diabetes, alcoholism, or chronic heart, lung, liver, or renal diseases, the treatment of CAP should provide broader coverage with dual antibiotic treatment regimens including combinations of fluoroquinolones, p-lactam drugs, and macrolide options, and hospitalization is often indicated.

Ref: Mandell LA, Wunderink RG, Anzueto A, et al: Infectious Diseases Society of America/American Thoracic Society consensus guidelines on the management of community-acquired pneumonia in adults. Clin Infect Dis 2007;44(Suppl 2):S27-S72. 2) Watkins RR, Lemonovich TL: Diagnosis and management of community-acquired pneumonia in adults. Am Fam Physician 2011;83(11):1299-1306.