She should avoid areas near busy roads, which are major sources of multiple outdoor air pollutants

It is estimated that particulate air pollution caused 100,000 deaths in the United States in 2010. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) publishes air quality data in the form of the Air Quality Index (AQI), which is calculated based on measured levels of the five major regulated air pollutants (surface ozone, particulate matter, sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, and nitrogen dioxide). AQI is reported as a number from 1 to 300, with corresponding colors ranging from green (1–50 or “good”) to maroon (200–300 or “very unhealthy”). Levels of particulate air pollution are consistently associated with exacerbations of cardiovascular and pulmonary disease, as well as other illnesses. Physicians should counsel people with chronic heart and lung disease like this patient to avoid heavy or prolonged exertion when AFI levels are >100 (SOR C).

Ozone production is increased by heat, sunlight, and humidity and is generally worse in the warmer months. Motorized vehicles are known to produce carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, and particulate matter, and these pollutants are known to be present at higher concentrations near busy roads. California has responded to this concern by banning construction of schools within 500 feet of major highways. Recirculating air conditioning is likely to reduce indoor exposure to ambient air pollution when levels are unsafe outside.

Ref: Laumbach RJ: Outdoor air pollutants and patient health. Am Fam Physician 2010;81(2):175-180.  2) Abelsohn A, Stieb DM: Health effects of outdoor air pollution: Approach to counseling patients using the Air Quality Health Index. Can Fam Physician 2011;57(8):881-887. 3) US Burden of Disease Collaborators: The state of US health, 1990–2010: Burden of diseases, injuries, and risk factors. JAMA 2013;310(6):591-608.