cognitive-behavioral therapy

Persons being evaluated for chronic fatigue should be assessed for comorbid depression, sleep disturbance, and pain (SOR C). According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the initial evaluation should include a urinalysis, a CBC, a metabolic panel, and measurement of TSH, antinuclear antibody, C-reactive protein, rheumatoid factor, and phosphorus (SOR C). In addition, Britain’s National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidelines recommend immunoglobulin A endomysial antibodies to screen for celiac disease. The etiology of chronic fatigue syndrome is not clearly defined and is likely multifactorial.

The initial treatment should be cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) or graded exercise therapy, or both (SOR A). CBT has been shown to decrease anxiety, improve work and social adjustment, decrease postexertional malaise, and improve overall fatigue (SOR A). There is not good evidence to support the use of hydrocortisone, fludrocortisone, or antiviral medications in the treatment of chronic fatigue syndrome. Other treatments that do not appear effective include melatonin, citalopram, methylphenidate, and galantamine.

White fluorescent light therapy has been shown to be effective for treating seasonal affective disorder, but not for chronic fatigue syndrome.

Ref: Price JR, Mitchell E, Tidy E, Hunot V: Cognitive behaviour therapy for chronic fatigue syndrome in adults. Cochrane
Database Syst Rev 2008;(3):CD001027. 2) Yancey JR, Thomas SM: Chronic fatigue syndrome: Diagnosis and treatment.
Am Fam Physician 2012;86(8):741-746.