
### Correct Answer: D) Papillary thyroid cancer 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose radiation-induced papillary thyroid cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Radiation exposure of the thyroid during childhood is the strongest environmental risk factor for thyroid cancer, most commonly papillary cancer.

The most likely diagnosis is papillary thyroid cancer. Radiation exposure of the thyroid during childhood is the strongest environmental risk factor for thyroid cancer. Patients under the age of 15, especially those younger than 5 years, have the highest risk of subsequently developing papillary thyroid cancer following a significant radiation exposure (>10 rads).
A benign follicular nodule is not the most likely diagnosis due to the history of radiation exposure in childhood, ultrasound findings (hypoechoic solid nodule with irregular margins), and cervical lymphadenopathy. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) of both the thyroid nodule and abnormal lymph nodes should be pursued to confirm the suspected diagnosis and inform surgical management. In addition to thyroidectomy, patients with thyroid cancer that has metastasized to cervical lymph nodes require dissection of the affected compartment (central neck dissection for central lymph node metastases, and central and lateral neck dissection for lateral metastases). Abnormal findings on sonography vary considerably in their specificity for predicting malignant lymph node involvement (range 43% to 100%). For this reason, FNAB of the thyroid nodule and any abnormal lymph nodes are usually performed simultaneously. The false-negative rate for lymph node FNAB is 6% to 8% overall, but increases to 20% for samples with inadequate cellularity. Inadequate cellularity is common for metastatic lymph nodes that have undergone cystic degeneration, which is common in papillary thyroid cancer. Measuring thyroglobulin in the aspirate can significantly improve diagnostic sensitivity of lymph node FNAB.
While radiation exposure is a risk factor for follicular thyroid cancer, this is a less likely diagnosis than papillary thyroid cancer. Follicular thyroid cancer is less common than papillary thyroid cancer, it tends to occur in older persons, and it rarely metastasizes to lymph nodes.
Medullary thyroid cancer is an unlikely diagnosis because it is the least common of the thyroid malignancies, representing about 1% to 2% of all thyroid cancers. Approximately 25% of medullary thyroid cancers are hereditary; all patients with medullary thyroid cancer should be screened with RET proto-oncogene sequencing. Medullary thyroid cancer may be associated with several syndromes, including multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (MEN2A) (which may include pheochromocytoma and hyperparathyroidism), MEN2B (marfanoid habitus and mucosal ganglioneuromas), or familial medullary thyroid cancer (medullary thyroid cancer alone).

**Bibliography**

Haugen BR, Alexander EK, Bible KC, Doherty GM, Mandel SJ, Nikiforov YE, et al. 2015 American Thyroid Association management guidelines for adult patients with thyroid nodules and differentiated thyroid cancer: The American Thyroid Association Guidelines Task Force on Thyroid Nodules and Differentiated Thyroid Cancer. Thyroid. 2016;26:1-133. PMID: 26462967 doi:10.1089/thy.2015.0020

This content was last updated in August 2018.