
### Correct Answer: A) Abdominal CT 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose an androgen-producing adrenal tumor.

#### **Key Point:** Signs of androgen excess such as progressive hirsutism and virilization over a short period of time in female patients suggest the diagnosis of an androgen-producing adrenal or ovarian tumor.

The most appropriate test to perform next is a CT scan of the abdomen. This postmenopausal woman has new-onset hyperandrogenism associated with significant elevation of serum dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS). The clinical picture of rapid-onset hirsutism and signs of virilization indicate an androgen-secreting tumor. Signs of virilization are deepening of the voice, clitoromegaly, hirsutism, and temporal hair loss. Under normal conditions, androgen production in women occurs in both the adrenal glands and ovaries, as well as by peripheral conversion. The major source of DHEAS is the adrenal gland, and an abdominal CT is recommended when serum DHEAS value is above 700 µg/dL (18.9 µmol/L).
DHEAS-secreting tumors of the adrenal gland are readily visible on CT imaging and adrenal vein sampling to localize the tumor is rarely required.
Pelvic MRI may be more sensitive at detecting small ovarian tumors and is often considered as second-line imaging when pelvic ultrasound is negative. If both pelvic ultrasound and MRI imaging are negative in the setting of suspicion for a testosterone-secreting ovarian tumor, ovarian vein sampling may be required to reveal the location of the tumor. Ovarian vein sampling is reserved for premenopausal women. Postmenopausal women can forego this invasive procedure and proceed directly to bilateral oophorectomy. Significant testosterone secretion can also be due to a non-tumorous condition called ovarian hyperthecosis. Hyperandrogenic symptoms are typically (but not always) of slower onset compared with that seen with androgen-secreting tumors.
A pelvic ultrasound is recommended as the first imaging study if testosterone is above 150 ng/dL (5.2 nmol/L). This patient's testosterone level was only mildly elevated, but the DHEAS was quite elevated making a testosterone-producing ovarian tumor less likely than an adrenal tumor.

**Bibliography**

Markopoulos MC, Kassi E, Alexandraki KI, Mastorakos G, Kaltsas G. Hyperandrogenism after menopause. Eur J Endocrinol. 2015;172:R79-91. PMID: 25225480 doi:10.1530/EJE-14-0468

This content was last updated in August 2018.