
### Correct Answer: C) Nonthyroidal illness syndrome 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose nonthyroidal illness syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Nonthyroidal illness syndrome (euthyroid sick syndrome) is characterized by reduced serum T3, low or low-normal serum T4, and normal or low (but detectable) serum TSH levels.

The most likely diagnosis is nonthyroidal illness syndrome (euthyroid sick syndrome), which is most often seen in critically ill hospitalized patients and is characterized by a reduced serum triiodothyronine (T3) level, low or low-normal serum thyroxine (T4 ) level, and normal or low (but detectable) serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level. These findings result from changes in the peripheral uptake of thyroid hormones, reduced levels of thyroid hormone-binding proteins, and alterations in the expression and activity of deiodinases. Very low serum T4 levels are associated with poor overall outcome. Treatment with levothyroxine or liothyronine is not indicated due to lack of evidence of benefit.
Central hypothyroidism is not the most likely diagnosis. The patient described here has no signs or symptoms suggestive of hypothyroidism. Characteristic biochemical findings in central hypothyroidism include low or inappropriately normal serum TSH in the setting of low total and free T4 levels and reduced or low-normal serum T3. In contrast to nonthyroidal illness, in which the T3 to T4 ratio is low, a high serum T3 to T4 ratio is seen in central hypothyroidism because conversion of T4 to T3 in peripheral tissues is maintained.
Heparin-induced thyroid function test abnormality is also incorrect. A single intravenous heparin injection may increase serum free T4 up to 5 times the baseline value within minutes. This spurious laboratory finding is related to heparin-induced stimulation of lipoprotein lipase and generation of free fatty acids, which displace T4 from binding proteins. Heparin has no effect on serum TSH, total T4, or total T3 values.
Subclinical hyperthyroidism is also not the most likely diagnosis. This patient has atrial fibrillation, but no other clinical findings suggestive of thyroid hormone excess. Although the low serum TSH level is consistent with this diagnosis, the total and free T4 levels are near the lower limit of the normal range and total T3 is reduced.

**Bibliography**

Fliers E, Bianco AC, Langouche L, Boelen A. Thyroid function in critically ill patients. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2015;3:816-25. PMID: 26071885 doi:10.1016/S2213-8587(15)00225-9

This content was last updated in May 2019.