
### Correct Answer: C) Hydrocortisone 

**Educational Objective:** Manage Cushing syndrome with glucocorticoid therapy following adrenalectomy.

#### **Key Point:** Following adrenalectomy for Cushing syndrome, patients require daily glucocorticoid replacement therapy to allow recovery from prolonged suppression due to hypercortisolism; recovery of adrenal function may take up to 1 year or longer depending on the severity of Cushing syndrome.

The most appropriate management of this patient following adrenalectomy for treatment of Cushing syndrome is hydrocortisone therapy. Patients who have undergone adrenalectomy for Cushing syndrome are at risk of secondary adrenal insufficiency due to hypercortisolism-induced suppression of the hypothalamic (corticotropin-releasing hormone [CRH]) and pituitary (adrenocorticotropic [ACTH] hormone) axis. Subsequent recovery of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis following removal of the source of excess cortisol secretion can take time, and hence endogenous cortisol production is impaired. In addition, cortisol-producing cells from the contralateral adrenal gland may have undergone atrophy due to lack of ACTH stimulation. Patients often require higher than physiologic doses of glucocorticoid therapy to prevent “glucocorticoid withdrawal syndrome,” an ill-defined complex of symptoms of fatigue, loss of appetite, nausea, and/or myalgia. There is no agreed upon glucocorticoid regimen following adrenalectomy and treatment of Cushing syndrome. The process of tapering and eventual discontinuation of glucocorticoid therapy is guided by patient symptoms and can be a lengthy process, taking up to 1 year or longer for the remaining adrenal gland to produce adequate cortisol.
ACTH-dependent causes of Cushing syndrome also lead to suppression of endogenous CRH and ACTH production, and hence patients with these disorders also require glucocorticoid therapy following successful treatment of Cushing syndrome.
Epinephrine is also not under ACTH control, and therefore epinephrine replacement is not required after adrenalectomy. In addition, epinephrine replacement is not required following bilateral adrenalectomy, as lack of epinephrine is not known to be associated with clinical disease.
Likewise, fludrocortisone therapy is not required following adrenalectomy as mineralocorticoid secretion is not under ACTH control. Therefore, aldosterone secretion from the contralateral adrenal gland is not impacted by Cushing syndrome. Fludrocortisone therapy is required following bilateral adrenalectomy.
Phenoxybenzamine is used as a preoperative α-receptor blockade for 10 to 14 days before surgery for pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas to prevent hypertensive crises during surgery and is not indicated following adrenalectomy for Cushing syndrome.

**Bibliography**

Hochberg Z, Pacak K, Chrousos GP. Endocrine withdrawal syndromes. Endocr Rev. 2003;24:523-38. PMID: 12920153

This content was last updated in August 2018.