
### Correct Answer: C) Measure testosterone at 8 AM 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose male hypogonadism.

#### **Key Point:** In men with specific signs and symptoms of hypogonadism, measuring an 8 AM total testosterone level is indicated; if the testosterone level is low, a second 8 AM confirmatory testosterone level is measured.

The most appropriate management is to repeat testosterone measurement at 8 AM. The clinical diagnosis of hypogonadism is made on the basis of signs and symptoms consistent with androgen deficiency with the finding of low morning testosterone concentrations on at least two occasions. Timing of initial laboratory assessment is important due to the diurnal variation of testosterone. Additionally, assessment of hypogonadism should not be undertaken during acute illness. The next step in management of this patient would be to obtain a morning testosterone concentration; if low, testing should be confirmed with a repeat morning measurement. After the initial diagnosis, determination of primary or secondary hypogonadism is established by measurement of luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) levels. Elevated gonadotropin levels are seen in primary hypogonadism with LH and FSH levels low or inappropriately normal in secondary hypogonadism.
Based on Endocrine Society guidelines, men with hypogonadism should be treated with exogenous testosterone when they have consistent signs and symptoms of hypogonadism and low serum testosterone levels. Patients requiring testosterone replacement therapy should have testosterone levels monitored at 3 and 6 months after initiation and annually thereafter; the goal total testosterone level should be in the mid-normal range. Monitoring of the prostate specific antigen and hematocrit level should follow Endocrine Society guidelines. Before initiating testosterone therapy in this patient, the diagnosis of hypogonadism needs to be confirmed with two appropriately timed testosterone measurements.
The most sensitive and cost-effective initial diagnostic study in patients with suspected hemochromatosis is measurement of the fasting serum transferrin saturation (calculated as [serum iron/total iron binding capacity] ×100). Serum ferritin level measurement is indicated in patients with elevated transferrin saturation. Evaluation for hemochromatosis is only appropriate after the diagnosis of hypogonadism is established. The first diagnostic step for this patient is the collection of two properly collected serum testosterone levels to establish the diagnosis of hypogonadism.
If subsequent evaluation of the patient confirms the presence of hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism (low testosterone and low LH and FSH levels), MRI of the pituitary to detect a pituitary adenoma or other mass would be appropriate. A pituitary MRI would be premature at this point.

**Bibliography**

Basaria S. Male hypogonadism. Lancet. 2014;383:1250-63. PMID: 24119423 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61126-5

This content was last updated in August 2018.