
### Correct Answer: C) 24-Hour urine calcium 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent complications of management of chronic hypoparathyroidism.

#### **Key Point:** In chronic hypoparathyroidism, the goals of therapy are to eliminate symptoms while avoiding complications of therapy; monitoring urine calcium excretion is mandatory because hypercalciuria often limits therapy.

The most appropriate test to perform now is measurement of 24-hour urine calcium. In chronic hypoparathyroidism, goals of therapy are to eliminate symptoms while avoiding complications of therapy; monitoring of urine calcium excretion is mandatory because hypercalciuria often limits therapy. Without parathyroid hormone (PTH), urinary calcium excretion is higher than normal for any given serum calcium level. Complications of prolonged hypercalciuria include nephrolithiasis and impaired glomerular filtration rate. Serum calcium, magnesium, creatinine, and urine calcium levels should be assessed on a regular basis. The goal calcium levels should be low-normal without hypercalciuria. The magnesium level should ideally be greater than 2 mg/dL (0.83 mmol/L), and creatinine levels should remain in the normal range. If the urine calcium level is greater than 300 mg/24 h (hypercalciuria), calcium and/or vitamin D replacement needs to be decreased. Calcium is usually decreased first if the 25-hydroxyvitamin D level is within the normal sufficiency range (≥30 ng/mL [75 nmol/L]). Thiazide diuretics reduce urine calcium excretion and thus may permit sufficient calcium and vitamin D therapy to achieve goal calcium levels.
Hypoparathyroidism slows bone metabolism and is relatively protective against the development of postmenopausal osteoporosis. Further, osteoporosis medications would rarely be indicated in these patients. Therefore, bone mineral density testing is not indicated.
The dose of calcitriol administered is titrated by the serum calcium and/or phosphorus level rather than the serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D level.
If serum PTH is not detectable 6 months after the onset of surgical hypoparathyroidism, it can be considered chronic. Without PTH, vitamin D activation, specifically the conversion of 25-hydroxyvitamin D to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (calcitriol) in the kidney, is severely impaired. Although vitamin D nutritional status as assessed by 25-hydroxyvitamin D may be relevant for other health conditions, its measurement in not useful in the setting of chronic hypoparathyroidism unless residual PTH production remains.
Ionized calcium, rather than total calcium, is the relevant calcium fraction in the blood. However, in an otherwise healthy person in whom serum albumin concentrations are presumed to be normal, measurement of ionized calcium does not contribute to the management of hypoparathyroidism.

**Bibliography**

Brandi ML, Bilezikian JP, Shoback D, Bouillon R, Clarke BL, Thakker RV, Khan AA, Potts JT Jr. Management of hypoparathyroidism: summary statement and guidelines. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2016;101:2273-83. PMID: 26943719 doi:10.1210/jc.2015-3907

This content was last updated in August 2018.