
### Correct Answer: B) Cessation of anabolic steroid use 

**Educational Objective:** Manage anabolic steroid-induced hypogonadism.

#### **Key Point:** Cessation of anabolic steroid use is the most appropriate management of steroid-induced hypogonadism.

Cessation of anabolic steroid use is the appropriate management plan at this time. This patient presents with symptoms and signs suggestive of anabolic steroid-induced hypogonadism including decreased libido, acne, gynecomastia, small testes, and suppressed gonadotropins with resultant hypogonadism. Extratesticular effects may also be noted, including low HDL cholesterol level, hepatotoxicity, erythrocytosis, and increased risk of obstructive sleep apnea. Mood disorders are common in anabolic steroid users. He will remain hypogonadal for an undetermined amount of time after stopping exogenous androgens before recovery of his hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis.
Anastrozole is an aromatase inhibitor. It blocks the conversion of androgens to estrogens leading to increased serum testosterone levels. Clomiphene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator that stimulates pituitary gonadotropins and consequently testosterone production. Human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) binds to the luteinizing hormone (LH) receptor resulting in stimulation of testosterone secretion by Leydig cells. While all of these agents may be requested by patients to mitigate the effects of anabolic steroid-induced hypogonadism, there is no strong evidence supporting their effectiveness and safety for management of anabolic steroid-induced hypogonadism.
Testosterone therapy has been associated with increased hemoglobin and hematocrit levels, worsened obstructive sleep apnea, and decreased HDL cholesterol levels. Since this patient's hemoglobin level is already significantly elevated, testosterone replacement therapy might be potentially harmful. Also, testosterone replacement therapy would not resolve his acne, gynecomastia, or small testes. Furthermore, initiation of testosterone replacement therapy would delay resolution of the expected hypogonadism seen following the discontinuation of anabolic steroids.

**Bibliography**

Karavolos S, Reynolds M, Panagiotopoulou N, McEleny K, Scally M, Quinton R. Male central hypogonadism secondary to exogenous androgens: a review of the drugs and protocols highlighted by the online community of users for prevention and/or mitigation of adverse effects. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2015;82:624-32. PMID: 25333666 doi:10.1111/cen.12641

This content was last updated in August 2018.