
### Correct Answer: C) Increase levothyroxine dose by 30% 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hypothyroidism in pregnancy.

#### **Key Point:** For women with hypothyroidism adequately treated with levothyroxine before pregnancy, dosing can be empirically increased by 30% when pregnancy is confirmed.

For women with hypothyroidism adequately treated with levothyroxine before pregnancy, dosing can be empirically increased by 30% when pregnancy is confirmed. Levothyroxine is the treatment of choice for the management of hypothyroidism during pregnancy. Patients can be counseled to start taking an additional two tablets of their prepregnancy levothyroxine dose per week, which is roughly equivalent to a 30% increase. In euthyroid women without thyroid disease, the total body thyroxine (T4) pool increases by 40% to 50% during pregnancy. This is mediated by the stimulatory effects of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) and placental human chorionic gonadotropin. Pregnant women with hypothyroidism are unable to augment thyroidal production of T4 and triiodothyronine (T3). The levothyroxine dose of hypothyroid women must therefore be adjusted to maintain a euthyroid state. Because T4 requirements may begin to increase as early as 4 to 6 weeks of pregnancy, women with hypothyroidism should increase their levothyroxine dose or serum TSH should be measured as soon as pregnancy is confirmed. TSH should be measured every 4 weeks for the first half of pregnancy and around 30 weeks of gestation in all women with hypothyroidism. A TSH value in the lower half of the reference range should be targeted (equivalent to a TSH level below 2.5 µU/mL [2.5 mU/L]) both in preconception planning and during pregnancy.
Continuing the patient on her current dose of levothyroxine and checking serum TSH in 2 months or decreasing the patient's levothyroxine dose are both inappropriate management and could precipitate maternal or fetal hypothyroidism. The use of liothyronine or T3-containing preparations including desiccated thyroid is contraindicated in pregnancy because the fetal central nervous system is relatively impermeable to T3. Thyroid hormone is essential for normal fetal development and is especially critical for the fetal brain.

**Bibliography**

Alexander EK, Pearce EN, Brent GA, Brown RS, Chen H, Dosiou C, et al. 2017 Guidelines of the American Thyroid Association for the Diagnosis and Management of Thyroid Disease During Pregnancy and the Postpartum. Thyroid. 2017;27:315-389. PMID: 28056690 doi:10.1089/thy.2016.0457

This content was last updated in August 2018.