
### Correct Answer: D) Refer for discussion on fertility preservation options 

**Educational Objective:** Understand risks associated with gender-affirming therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Because gender-affirming hormone therapy limits fertility, reproductive options should be discussed with patients prior to initiation.

Transgender medicine is the care of persons whose gender identity differs from the sex that was assigned at birth. Gender incongruence is persistent incongruence between gender identity and external sexual anatomy at birth absent of a confounding mental disorder. A transgender man is someone with a male gender identity and a female birth assigned sex; a transgender woman (as in this patient) is someone with a female gender identity and a male birth assigned sex.
The most appropriate next step in management is to refer the patient for discussion on fertility preservation options. Gender-affirming hormone therapy is the primary medical intervention sought by transgender people. Criteria for hormone therapy include persistent, well-documented gender dysphoria; capacity to make a fully informed decision; age of majority in a given country; and if present, control of significant medical or psychological conditions. Gender-affirmation hormone therapy limits fertility, thus reproductive options should be discussed with patients prior to initiation of hormone therapy.
While feminizing hormone therapy is typically estradiol with an androgen blocker, it would not be appropriate to initiate therapy without first considering its impact on fertility. Additionally, due to the risk of thromboembolic disease with estrogen therapy, smoking cessation must first be undertaken. Gender confirmation surgery is often the last step in the treatment process for gender dysphoria. It is recommended that individuals undergoing irreversible gender-affirming surgery, which affects fertility, engage in at least 1 year of satisfactory social role change as well as consistent and compliant hormone treatment, unless hormone therapy is not desired or medically contraindicated.

**Bibliography**

Hembree WC, Cohen-Kettenis PT, Gooren L, et al. Endocrine treatment of gender-dysphoric/gender-incongruent persons: an Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2017; 102:3869. PMID: 28945902

This content was last updated in August 2018.