
### Correct Answer: D) Discontinue alendronate 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient who has completed 5 years of oral bisphosphonate therapy.

#### **Key Point:** For low-risk osteoporotic women, treatment with antiresorptive therapy for 5 years is sufficient.

The most appropriate management of this patient is to discontinue alendronate. The Fracture Intervention Trial Long-term Extension (FLEX) trial showed that continuing alendronate treatment for 10 years compared with stopping after 5 years resulted in a small decrease in the incidence of clinical vertebral fractures but not nonvertebral fractures. Subject characteristics most predictive of incident fracture after alendronate discontinuation were age older than 76 years, current femur neck T-score below –2.5, and prior osteoporotic fracture. Importantly, women with femur neck T-score below –3.5 or who fractured during the initial 5 years of alendronate therapy were not included in the FLEX trial. The authors concluded that patients at high risk of fracture may benefit from continuing alendronate therapy for up to 10 years. There is inconsistency among expert groups regarding the need to monitor bone mineral density during osteoporosis therapy and at 5 years to inform decision making about discontinuation of therapy. Contrary to other groups, the American College of Physicians recommends against monitoring because data from several studies showed that women treated with antiresorptive treatment benefit from reduced fractures even if BMD did not increase.
The antiresorptive effect of alendronate can be assessed by bone turnover markers including serum C-terminal peptide of type 1 collagen (CTx). However, neither CTx levels on alendronate nor change with discontinuation predict which patients will fracture if alendronate is discontinued. Furthermore, serum CTx levels in patients taking alendronate vary widely and cannot be reliably interpreted without pretreatment values.
The FLEX trial included postmenopausal women who had taken 5 years of alendronate 5 mg daily (equivalent to 35 mg weekly) or 10 mg daily (equivalent to 70 mg weekly). There was no difference in outcomes based on alendronate dose. Therefore, the management decision to be made after 5 years of alendronate therapy is to continue or discontinue rather than to modify the dose.

**Bibliography**

Qaseem A, Forciea MA, McLean RM, Denberg TD; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the American College of Physicians. Treatment of low bone density or osteoporosis to prevent fractures in men and women: a Clinical Practice Guideline Update from the American College of Physicians. Ann Intern Med. 2017;166:818-839. Epub 2017 May 9. PMID: 28492856

This content was last updated in August 2018.