
### Correct Answer: A) Continue current regimen 

**Educational Objective:** Manage type 2 diabetes mellitus in a patient with decreasing kidney function.

#### **Key Point:** Metformin may be continued in patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate to 30 to 45 mL/min/1.73 m2 after consideration of risks and benefits; if metformin is continued, frequent monitoring of kidney function (every 3 months) is recommended.

The most appropriate management of this patient's diabetes mellitus is to continue the current regimen. This is an older patient with multiple comorbidities. She is at her goal hemoglobin A1c level of less than 8% per the American Diabetes Association guidelines with her current regimen. In contrast, the American College of Physicians recommends that clinicians should avoid targeting an hemoglobin A1c level in patients with a life expectancy less than 10 years due to advanced age (80 years or older), residence in a nursing home, or chronic conditions (such as end-stage kidney disease) because the harms outweigh the benefits in this population.
The FDA previously considered serum creatinine levels of 1.4 mg/dL (123.8 µmol/L) or higher in women and 1.5 mg/dL (132.6 µmol/L) or higher in men a contraindication to metformin use due to concerns for development of lactic acidosis. After further review of safety data from multiple studies, the criteria for continued safe use of metformin have been revised by the FDA. The use of serum creatinine for determining safe use of metformin was replaced by estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) to better estimate kidney function. Patients who have a decrease in eGFR to 30 to 45 mL/min/1.73 m2 while treated with metformin may continue use after consideration of risks and benefits. If metformin is continued, frequent monitoring of kidney function (every 3 months) is recommended. Metformin should be discontinued if the eGFR falls below 30 mL/min/1.73 m2.
Because she is at her goal hemoglobin A1c level of less than 8%, intensifying her therapy with either insulin glargine or glipizide is unnecessary, In addition, increasing the insulin glargine or glipizide dose in the setting of worsening kidney function could increase the risk for hypoglycemia. Additional weight gain may also occur with an increased insulin glargine or glipizide dose.

**Bibliography**

American Diabetes Association. 8. Pharmacologic approaches to glycemic treatment: Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes-2018. Diabetes Care. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S73-S85. PMID: 29222379 doi:10.2337/dc18-S008

This content was last updated in May 2019.