
### Correct Answer: A) Combined oral contraceptive therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat polycystic ovary syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Oral contraceptive agents are first-line pharmacologic therapy for hirsutism, acne, and menstrual dysfunction unless fertility is desired in a patient with polycystic ovary syndrome.

This patient has ovulatory dysfunction with clinical evidence of hyperandrogenism. While this is suggestive of polycystic ovary syndrome, this is a diagnosis of exclusion. The prolonged clinical course and absence of the more concerning findings of virilization also support the diagnosis of polycystic ovary syndrome. Given that this patient is most concerned about hirsutism and acne, oral contraceptive therapy is the first-line therapeutic agent. Oral contraceptive therapy suppresses gonadotropin secretion and resultant ovarian androgen production. Additionally, the estrogen component increases sex hormone-binding globulin resulting in less androgen bioavailability. Oral contraceptives that contain 30 to 35 µg of ethinyl estradiol appear to be more effective in managing hirsutism than formulations containing less ethinyl estradiol. Furthermore, oral contraceptive therapy reduces new terminal hair growth, improves acne, and regulates menses to prevent endometrial hyperplasia.
Metformin minimally effects hirsutism and is not recommended for this indication. In patients with polycystic ovary syndrome, metformin could be considered for off-label treatment of prediabetes or treatment of type 2 diabetes, in addition to lifestyle modification.
Pelvic ultrasound and adrenal CT should be performed to exclude an ovarian or adrenal neoplasm if the serum total testosterone level is greater than 150 ng/dL (5.2 nmol/L), and adrenal CT is necessary to exclude an adrenal cortisol-secreting and/or androgen-secreting neoplasm if the plasma dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) level is greater than 7.0 μg/mL (18.9 µmol/L). Pelvic ultrasound and adrenal CT are not indicated in this patient as her testosterone and DHEAS levels are not elevated to the degree that ovarian tumor is a consideration.
While spironolactone can reduce the growth of terminal hair, it is used as an add-on treatment to oral contraceptive therapy. This antiandrogen medication may disrupt organogenesis in a male fetus; thus, concomitant reliable contraception is mandated when initiating this treatment.

**Bibliography**

McCartney CR, Marshall JC. Clinical practice: polycystic ovary syndrome. N Engl J Med. 2016;375:54-64. PMID: 27406348 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp1514916

This content was last updated in August 2018.