
### Correct Answer: A) Measurement of prolactin and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a pituitary tumor for hypersecretion.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with pituitary tumors, pituitary hypersecretion should be ruled out by biochemical testing.

Measurement of prolactin and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) is recommended for the evaluation of possible hypersecretion of an incidentally discovered pituitary tumor. When a pituitary tumor is incidentally noted, investigation must determine (1) whether it is causing a mass effect, (2) whether it is secreting excess hormones, and (3) whether it has a propensity to grow and cause problems in the future. After a thorough history and physical examination, biochemical testing can be undertaken in a targeted fashion based on the patient's clinical signs and symptoms. Although not generally useful in the differential diagnosis of a pituitary mass, all patients should be evaluated for hormone hyposecretion in order to identify and replace hormone deficiencies. Initial tests to evaluate for hormone deficiency should include measurement of 8 AM cortisol, thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), free (or total) thyroxine (T4), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), testosterone in men and menstrual history in women (normal menstrual cycles eliminates the need to measure hormone levels). Prolactin and IGF-1 are measured to rule out pituitary hormone hypersecretion. Screening for growth hormone excess in pituitary incidentalomas may allow early detection of a growth hormone secreting tumor therefore increasing the chance of a surgical cure. If the tumor is not causing mass effect and there is no evidence of hormone excess, a pituitary MRI should be repeated in 6 months for a macroadenoma (≥1 cm) and 12 months for a microadenoma (<1 cm) to assess for growth. If no growth occurs, MRIs should be repeated every 1 to 2 years for the next 3 years and then intermittently thereafter.
Measurement of urine free cortisol is not necessary in every patient with a pituitary tumor. This should be measured only when Cushing disease is suspected based on clinical history and physical examination findings. This patient has no physical features suspicious for Cushing disease nor does he have diseases associated with Cushing disease such as diabetes or hypertension.
Visual field examination is absolutely necessary in all patients with a macroadenoma that abuts or compresses the optic chiasm, but it is not necessary in patients with no evidence of involvement of the optic chiasm on MRI. This patient's tumor does not abut or compress the optic chiasm or optic nerves.
No further evaluation is inappropriate as pituitary hypersecretion should be evaluated in all pituitary tumors.

**Bibliography**

Freda PU, Beckers AM, Katznelson L, Molitch ME, Montori VM, Post KD, et al; Endocrine Society. Pituitary incidentaloma: an Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2011;96:894-904. PMID: 21474686 doi:10.1210/jc.2010-1048.

This content was last updated in August 2018.