
### Correct Answer: E) Start phenoxybenzamine 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient with pheochromocytoma prior to surgery.

#### **Key Point:** An α-receptor blockade with phenoxybenzamine or another α-blocker is required prior to adrenalectomy for pheochromocytoma to prevent potential hypertensive crisis during anesthesia induction and/or manipulation of the tumor.

The most appropriate preoperative management in this patient with a pheochromocytoma is an α-adrenergic blocking agent. An α-receptor blockade is required prior to adrenalectomy to prevent potential hypertensive crisis caused by catecholamine release during anesthesia induction and/or manipulation of the tumor. Phenoxybenzamine is started approximately 10 to 14 days prior to surgery, and the dose progressively increased to achieve a desired blood pressure of 130/80 mm Hg or lower when seated, and systolic pressure of 90 mm Hg or higher when standing. Because phenoxybenzamine causes vasodilation, an expected consequence of therapy is postural hypotension. To counteract this and allow appropriate dose escalation of phenoxybenzamine, patients are advised to drink plenty of fluids, eat high salt-containing foods, and to make liberal use of the salt shaker at meal times. If blood pressure is not adequately controlled with an α-receptor blockade (or prohibitive side effects occur with required higher doses), a calcium-channel blocker such as amlodipine can be added. A short-acting, selective α-blocker such as prazosin, doxazosin, or terazosin, can be considered alternatives to phenoxybenzamine, based on decreased cost and limited data suggesting similar patient outcomes.
Hydralazine or lisinopril do not provide the needed α-receptor blockade, and therefore increasing the dose of these medications would not be helpful before surgery.
Diuretics, such as chlorthalidone, should be avoided in patients with pheochromocytoma. These patients may have diminished intravascular volume secondary to intense vasoconstriction and further diuretic-induced volume depletion may lead to severe hypotension. Finally, diuretic treatment will not prevent hypertensive crisis during adrenalectomy.
Metoprolol or other β-blockers should never be started prior to adequate α-receptor blockade in patients with pheochromocytoma, as unopposed α-receptor stimulation can precipitate a hypertensive crisis. Once adequate α-receptor blockade has been achieved, however, a β-blocker is typically added to the medication regimen 2 to 3 days prior to surgery to counteract vasodilation-induced tachycardia.
In the case of very large tumors and/or significant metanephrine elevation, the catecholamine synthesis inhibitor metyrosine may also be added to the medication regimen. Metyrosine is not given routinely in the preoperative management of pheochromocytoma due to significant side effects associated with body-wide catecholamine deficiency.

**Bibliography**

Lenders JW, Duh QY, Eisenhofer G, et al; Endocrine Society. Pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma: an Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014 Jun;99(6):1915-42. PMID: 24893135 doi:10.1210/jc.2014-1498

This content was last updated in August 2018.