
### Correct Answer: B) Follicle-stimulating hormone measurement 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate secondary amenorrhea.

#### **Key Point:** After ruling out pregnancy, the initial laboratory evaluation in secondary amenorrhea includes measurement of follicle-stimulating hormone, thyroid-stimulating hormone, and prolactin levels.

This patient presents with secondary amenorrhea, defined as absence of menses for more than 3 months in women who previously had regular menstrual cycles. After ruling out pregnancy, the initial laboratory evaluation in secondary amenorrhea includes measurement of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), and prolactin levels. Given negative pregnancy testing and normal TSH and prolactin levels in this patient, FSH testing is the remaining initial laboratory data point that has yet to be explored. If the FSH level is elevated, testing should be repeated in 1 month and accompanied by serum estradiol testing. If the FSH level is elevated on repeat testing and estradiol level is low, karyotype analysis is indicated to evaluate for Turner syndrome. Primary ovarian insufficiency is also associated with an elevated FSH and low estradiol levels. In women with normal or low FSH levels, the evaluation is typically directed by history and physical examination findings. For example, a high BMI (≥30) and acne are frequently seen in women with polycystic ovary syndrome. In addition, a progestin withdrawal test can be performed to further assess the estrogen status of the patient. If a normal estrogen state is confirmed (bleeding within a week of stopping progesterone), hyperandrogenism should be considered.
Testosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) are measured in patients with suspected hyperandrogenism as the cause of amenorrhea based on history, physical examination, and following initial laboratory evaluation (serum human chorionic gonadotropin, FSH, TSH, and prolactin).
Primary amenorrhea is the absence of menses by age 16 years accompanied by normal sexual hair pattern and normal breast development. Approximately 15% of patients presenting with primary amenorrhea may have an anatomic abnormality of the uterus, cervix, or vagina such as müllerian agenesis, transverse vaginal septum, or imperforate hymen. Digital vaginal examination, transvaginal ultrasound, or pelvic MRI may help to identify outflow tract anomalies. Because this patient has secondary amenorrhea, evaluation for anatomic abnormalities with transvaginal ultrasound or pelvic MRI is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Klein DA, Poth MA. Amenorrhea: an approach to diagnosis and management. Am Fam Physician. 2013;87:781-8. PMID: 23939500

This content was last updated in August 2018.