
### Correct Answer: C) Scheduled basal insulin and correction insulin 

**Educational Objective:** Manage hyperglycemia in the hospital.

#### **Key Point:** To manage in-patient hyperglycemia, scheduled basal insulin or basal insulin plus correction insulin is appropriate for patients who are fasting or who have poor oral intake.

The most appropriate management of this patient's hyperglycemia is to initiate scheduled basal insulin and correction insulin. Inpatient hyperglycemia, defined as consistently elevated plasma glucose values above 140 mg/dL (7.8 mmol/L), is associated with poor outcomes. Attempts to decrease morbidity and mortality with tight glycemic control (80-110 mg/dL [4.4–6.1 mmol/L]) have not consistently demonstrated improvements in adverse outcomes and, in some settings, have shown increased rates of severe hypoglycemic events and mortality. As a result, revised inpatient glycemic targets are less stringent than outpatient glucose targets to avoid both hypoglycemia and severe hyperglycemia that can lead to volume depletion and electrolyte abnormalities. Dietary modifications should be made once glucose levels exceed 140 mg/dL (7.8 mmol/L). At persistent glucose levels of 180 mg/dL (10.0 mmol/L) and higher, the American Diabetes Association recommends initiation of scheduled insulin with a blood glucose target of 140 to 180 mg/dL (7.8-10.0 mmol/L) for most critically ill and noncritically ill patients to decrease the risk of adverse outcomes. Scheduled basal insulin or basal insulin plus correction insulin is appropriate for patients who are fasting or who have poor oral intake, such as this patient, with frequent bedside point-of-care monitoring every 4 to 6 hours for insulin adjustments. Scheduled basal and prandial insulin plus correction insulin are appropriate for patients who are eating.
The safety of oral antihyperglycemic agents, including empagliflozin, in the hospital setting has not been fully studied or established. In addition, sodium-glucose transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors have been associated with diabetic ketoacidosis and should be avoided in situations that may produce ketone bodies, such as severe illness or prolonged fasting. Scheduled insulin therapy is the recommended treatment regimen for hyperglycemia in the hospital setting.
The safety of oral antihyperglycemic agents, including metformin, in the hospital setting has not been fully studied or established. Scheduled insulin therapy is the recommended treatment regimen for hyperglycemia in the hospital setting.
The sole use of correction insulin for the management of hyperglycemia is not recommended. It is a reactive approach to hyperglycemia that can lead to large fluctuations in glucose levels coupled with the near universal lag time between measurement of glucose and injection of insulin that occurs in most hospitals.

**Bibliography**

American Diabetes Association. 14. Diabetes care in the hospital: Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes-2018. Diabetes Care. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S144-S151. PMID: 29222385 doi:10.2337/dc18-S014

This content was last updated in August 2018.