
### Correct Answer: A) Dopamine agonist therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Manage hypogonadotropic hypogonadism due to hyperprolactinemia.

#### **Key Point:** Dopamine agonist therapy should be used to treat hyperprolactinemia in women with irregular periods who are trying to conceive.

The patient has hypogonadism due to hyperprolactinemia, and the most appropriate management is dopamine agonist therapy. Empty sella is diagnosed when the normal pituitary gland is not visualized or is excessively small on MRI. The pituitary sella is said to be “empty” because normal tissue is not seen. The finding may be primarily due to increased cerebrospinal fluid entering and enlarging the sella, or it may be secondary to a tumor, previous pituitary surgery, radiation, or infarction. When empty sella is found incidentally on imaging, an evaluation should be completed to determine if there is a known cause for secondary empty sella and if the patient has signs or symptoms of pituitary hormone deficiency. A patient without signs or symptoms should be screened for cortisol deficiency and hypothyroidism. The most common pituitary abnormality in empty sella is hyperprolactinemia. Hyperprolactinemia should be treated with dopamine agonist therapy in a woman with irregular menstrual periods who is trying to conceive. This normalizes the prolactin level and allows recovery of the gonadal axis.
Neurosurgical consultation is not necessary in the absence of signs/symptoms of increased intracranial pressure or visual deficit. Although this patient's original MRI was done for headache, she has no current signs of increased intracranial pressure or visual deficit on examination.
An oral contraceptive pill could be used for treatment if she were not trying to conceive. This is appropriate treatment for hypogonadism related to hyperprolactinemia in empty sella or in women with hyperprolactinemia secondary to a pituitary microadenoma to reduce her risk of developing osteoporosis.
Providing no treatment at this time is inappropriate given the patient's menstrual irregularity. In her case, she requires dopamine agonist therapy to treat her hypogonadism as she is trying to conceive; however, even if she were not trying to conceive, she would require treatment with either dopamine agonist therapy or an oral contraceptive pill to treat her hypogonadism and reduce her risk of developing osteoporosis.

**Bibliography**

Guitelman M, Garcia Basavilbaso N, Vitale M, Chervin A, Katz D, Miragaya K, et al. Primary empty sella (PES): a review of 175 cases. Pituitary. 2013;16:270-4. PMID: 22875743 doi:10.1007/s11102-012-0416-6

This content was last updated in August 2018.