
### Correct Answer: B) 21-Hydroxylase antibody measurement 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose the cause of primary adrenal insufficiency.

#### **Key Point:** The most common cause of primary adrenal insufficiency in the United States is autoimmune adrenalitis, and positive 21-hydroxylase antibodies are found in approximately 90% of those cases.

The most appropriate next test is measurement of 21-hydroxylase antibodies. This patient has primary adrenal insufficiency as confirmed by the combination of low serum cortisol and elevated serum adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). The most common cause of primary adrenal insufficiency in the United States is autoimmune adrenalitis, and positive 21-hydroxylase antibodies are found in approximately 90% of those cases.
Patients with autoimmune adrenalitis are at risk for the development of other autoimmune disorders including primary hypothyroidism, primary ovarian insufficiency, type 1 diabetes mellitus, celiac disease, and autoimmune gastritis. If 21-hydroxylase antibody measurement is negative, abdominal CT imaging should be performed. In autoimmune disease, the adrenal glands often appear atrophic, although normal-sized adrenal glands do not rule out this diagnosis. Other causes of primary adrenal insufficiency typically cause enlargement of the adrenal glands. These include infiltrative disorders such as lymphoma, sarcoidosis, histoplasmosis, or tuberculosis (the latter can be associated with normal-sized adrenal glands). Bilateral adrenal enlargement is also seen in primary adrenal insufficiency caused by bilateral adrenal hemorrhage. Metastatic disease to the adrenal glands rarely causes adrenal insufficiency.
Cosyntropin stimulation testing is used to diagnose the presence of adrenal insufficiency, but it will not help determine the underlying cause. In this patient, the diagnosis of primary adrenal insufficiency is confirmed by the presence of a serum cortisol level of less than 3 µg/dL (82.8 nmol/L) in combination with an elevated serum ACTH level. Hence, cosyntropin stimulation testing will not add further to the diagnosis or management.
MRI of the pituitary gland is not indicated in this patient with primary adrenal insufficiency, but it is the imaging modality of choice for investigation of secondary adrenal insufficiency. The latter is characterized by low serum cortisol in the setting of low or inappropriately normal serum ACTH levels.
Measurement of serum aldosterone would not help determine the underlying cause of this patient's primary adrenal insufficiency. Low or inappropriately normal serum aldosterone levels (associated with elevated plasma renin activity) are present in most patients with primary adrenal insufficiency due to destruction of the layers of the adrenal cortex by the underlying disease process. Aldosterone deficiency results in hyperkalemia, as noted in this patient, and hyponatremia may also be present.

**Bibliography**

Bancos I, Hahner S, Tomlinson J, Arlt W. Diagnosis and management of adrenal insufficiency. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2015;3:216-26. PMID: 25098712 doi:10.1016/S2213-8587(14)70142-1

This content was last updated in August 2018.