
### Correct Answer: B) Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1).

#### **Key Point:** Primary hyperparathyroidism may be the first sign of multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome 1 (MEN1) in persons with a family history of recurrent primary hyperparathyroidism and neuroendocrine tumors arising from the pancreas and tumors of the pituitary gland.

Multigland hyperplasia causing primary hyperparathyroidism should lead to further investigation for an underlying disorder, especially in younger persons and those with a family history of primary hyperparathyroidism. Although there are several familial hyperparathyroidism syndromes, multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) is the most common. In addition to genetic testing, MEN1 can be discriminated from other disorders by personal or family history of recurrent primary hyperparathyroidism and neoplasia in other endocrine tissues, most prominently neuroendocrine tumors arising from the pancreas and tumors of the pituitary gland.
In contrast, familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia (FHH) presents as mild, stable hypercalcemia with normal parathyroid hormone (PTH) level and relatively low urine calcium excretion. PTH may be elevated in a small percentage of patients with coexistence of vitamin D deficiency. Kidney health is unaffected. A family history of persistent hypercalcemia despite parathyroidectomy is suggestive. Genetic testing may help to discriminate FHH from primary hyperparathyroidism prior to surgical exploration.
Parathyroid carcinoma is rare. Rapidly worsening or severe hypercalcemia accompanied by very high PTH levels, increased alkaline phosphatase, and locally invasive tumor arising from a single parathyroid gland are diagnostic.
Secondary hyperparathyroidism is a response to hypocalcemia often related to vitamin D deficiency or chronic kidney disease-related hyperphosphatemia. Left untreated, a chronic stimulus to PTH secretion may lead to parathyroid gland hyperplasia. Tertiary hyperparathyroidism is the result of long-standing secondary hyperparathyroidism in which the hyperplastic parathyroid glands exhibit autonomous function even after correction of underlying disease (for example, following kidney transplantation). Although the biochemical profile is similar to primary hyperparathyroidism, a history of preexisting and long-standing hypocalcemia or hyperphosphatemia is evident.

**Bibliography**

Thakker RV, Newey PJ, Walls GV, Bilezikian J, Dralle H, Ebeling PR, et al; Endocrine Society. Clinical Practice Guidelines for Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1 (MEN1). J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2012;97:2990-3011. PMID: 22723327 doi:10.1210/jc.2012-1230

This content was last updated in August 2018.