
### Correct Answer: C) 1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D level 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose vitamin D-dependent hypercalcemia.

#### **Key Point:** An elevated 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D level and suppressed parathyroid hormone is diagnostic of vitamin D-dependent hypercalcemia.

The most likely diagnosis is vitamin D-dependent hypercalcemia, and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D level should be measured. Vitamin D-dependent hypercalcemia is most commonly due to disorders associated with granulomatous inflammation. The patient's chest radiograph shows extensive infiltrates that are most prominent in the upper lung zones and are associated with hilar enlargement, highly suggestive of pulmonary sarcoidosis. Sarcoidosis is a multisystem granulomatous disease of unclear cause with a predilection for the lung; pulmonary involvement occurs in more than 90% of patients. Macrophages within granulomas convert 25-hydroxyvitamin D to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D without regulation by parathyroid hormone in contrast to renal conversion of vitamin D. An elevated 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D level and suppressed parathyroid hormone is diagnostic of vitamin D-dependent hypercalcemia. As vitamin D enhances absorption of both calcium and phosphorus, concurrent elevation of serum calcium and phosphorus is also suggestive of vitamin D-dependent hypercalcemia.
There are three mechanisms of non-PTH dependent hypercalcemia of malignancy: local osteolytic, humoral, and increased production of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D. When lytic bone metastases are present, hypercalcemia is the result of increased mobilization of calcium from the bone. In these cases, the serum alkaline phosphatase level is typically elevated. Humoral hypercalcemia is less common and occurs when the tumor itself produces parathyroid-related protein (PTHrP) that binds to and activates the parathyroid receptor, raising serum calcium levels. Squamous cell carcinomas, breast cancers, and renal cell carcinomas are the tumors most commonly associated with hypercalcemia of malignancy. Increased production of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D is the most common cause of hypercalcemia in Hodgkin lymphoma and is responsible for hypercalcemia in about one-third of non-Hodgkin lymphoma cases. These diagnoses cannot explain the patient's prolonged clinical course, pulmonary infiltrates, and hilar lymphadenopathy.
When hypercalcemia is due to adrenal insufficiency, it is in the setting of adrenal crisis which is characterized by hypotension, fever, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, tachycardia, and even death. The patient's clinical course is not compatible with acute adrenal insufficiency.

**Bibliography**

Donovan PJ, Sundac L, Pretorius CJ, d’Emden MC, McLeod DS. Calcitriol-mediated hypercalcemia: causes and course in 101 patients. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2013;98:4023-9. PMID: 23979953 doi:10.1210/jc.2013-2016

This content was last updated in August 2018.