
### Correct Answer: A) Dilated eye examination 

**Educational Objective:** Screen for diabetic retinopathy in a woman of childbearing age.

#### **Key Point:** Women with type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus who are planning pregnancy should be counseled on the risk of development or progression of diabetic retinopathy; rapid improvements in glycemic levels during pregnancy can temporarily worsen preexisting retinopathy.

The most appropriate preconception management for this patient is a dilated eye examination. Women with type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus who are planning pregnancy should be counseled on the risk of development or progression of diabetic retinopathy. Additionally, rapid improvement in glycemic control in the setting of retinopathy is associated with temporary worsening of retinopathy. Given tight glycemic targets in pregnancy, this is often a time of intensified glycemic control for women placing them at greater risk for this complication. Dilated eye examinations should occur before pregnancy or in first trimester if not done prior to pregnancy. Patients should be monitored every trimester and then closely for 1 year postpartum as indicated by the degree of retinopathy.
This patient is up to date on lipid screening and additional screening as part of preconception management is not necessary.
Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels should be monitored closely in pregnancy due to increased level of thyroid-binding globulin in pregnancy resulting in increased levothyroxine needs. This patient has had a TSH measurement with normal results 3 months ago. The dose of levothyroxine may need to be increased on average by 30% to 50% during pregnancy, and patients should have their TSH level checked as soon as a pregnancy test is positive.
A referral to a physician experienced in the care of kidney disease should be undertaken in patients with advanced kidney disease, which is not present in this patient as her most recent serum creatinine and urine albumin-creatinine ratio were normal.

**Bibliography**

American Diabetes Association. 10. Microvascular complications and foot care: Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes-2018. Diabetes Care. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S105-S118. PMID: 29222381 doi:10.2337/dc18-S010

This content was last updated in August 2018.