
### Correct Answer: A) Alendronate 

**Educational Objective:** Treat glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis.

#### **Key Point:** Oral bisphosphonates are recommended as first-line therapy in adult men and women on chronic glucocorticoid therapy with moderate to high fracture risk regardless of age.

The most appropriate treatment is alendronate. The American College of Rheumatology recommends that in all adults and children, an initial clinical fracture risk assessment for glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis should be performed as soon as possible, but at least within 6 months of the initiation of long-term glucocorticoid treatment. Patients are categorized according to fracture risk. High fracture risk in patients younger than 40 years is defined as by a previous osteoporotic fracture. Moderate fracture risk is defined as hip or spine bone mineral density Z score less than –3 or rapid bone loss (>10% at the hip or spine over 1 year) and continuing glucocorticoid treatment at >7.5 mg/day for >6 months. Low risk is defined as no osteoporotic risk factors other than glucocorticoid use. Other criteria are used for defining low, moderate, and high fracture risk in patients age 40 years and older. Oral bisphosphonates are recommended as first-line therapy for patients with moderate to high fracture risk, such as this woman, regardless of age. This includes women of childbearing potential provided they are not planning a pregnancy during the period of bisphosphonate treatment.
Optimized calcium and vitamin D intake, lifestyle modifications, and reassessment of fracture risk including bone mineral density testing every 2 to 3 years is recommended over osteoporosis medications for patients younger than 40 at low risk of fracture. However, this patient is not low risk, and treatment with an oral bisphosphonate is indicated.
Teriparatide is indicated for the treatment of men and women with osteoporosis associated with sustained systemic glucocorticoid therapy at high risk for fracture. Although it increases bone mineral density at the spine and hip more than oral bisphosphonate therapy, it is less desirable due to expense and the requirement of daily injections.
Zoledronic acid is indicated for the treatment and prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis in patients who cannot tolerate oral bisphosphonates. Due to uncertain impact on pregnancy outcomes, it is considered a third-line agent in younger women.

**Bibliography**

Buckley L, Guyatt G, Fink HA, Cannon M, Grossman J, Hansen KE, Humphrey MB, Lane NE, Magrey M, Miller M, Morrison L, Rao M, Byun Robinson A, Saha S, Wolver S, Bannuru RR, Vaysbrot E, Osani M, Turgunbaev M, Miller AS, McAlindon T. 2017 American College of Rheumatology Guideline for the Prevention and Treatment of Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken). 2017;69:1095-1110. Epub 2017 Jun 6. PMID: 28585410 doi:10.1002/acr.23279

This content was last updated in August 2018.