
### Correct Answer: D) Thyroid-stimulating hormone-secreting adenoma 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose thyroid-stimulating hormone-secreting adenoma.

#### **Key Point:** Signs and symptoms of a thyroid-stimulating hormone-secreting adenoma are those seen in hyperthyroidism, although laboratory evaluation reveals an elevated free thyroxine (T4) level with an inappropriately normal or elevated thyroid-stimulating hormone level.

This patient most likely has a thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH)-secreting adenoma. The initial evaluation based on clinical signs and/or symptoms of thyrotoxicosis should be measurement of serum TSH alone, followed by measurement of thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3) levels if TSH is suppressed because the typical pattern of hyperthyroidism is TSH suppression with an elevated T4 and/or T3. However, this patient has signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism with elevated TSH and free T4 levels, which is concerning for a TSH-secreting adenoma. These tumors are extremely rare and are managed differently from other causes of thyrotoxicosis. Before this diagnosis is made, other causes of the laboratory abnormalities must be excluded (thyroid hormone resistance and familial dysalbuminemic hyperthyroxinemia). If there is no other explanation for elevated TSH and T4 levels, a pituitary MRI should be performed. The patient's symptoms of hyperthyroidism and lack of family history of thyroid disease make a TSH-secreting adenoma more likely.
Serum TSH and human chorionic gonadotropin have a common α-subunit, allowing cross-reactivity at the TSH receptor. Gestational thyrotoxicosis typically occurs in the first trimester secondary to human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) stimulation of the TSH receptor. Laboratory results would look similar to hyperthyroidism with suppressed TSH and elevated free T4.
The clinical manifestations of hypothyroidism include fatigue, cold intolerance, constipation, heavy menses, weight gain, impaired concentration, dry skin, edema, depression, mood changes, muscle cramps, myalgia, and reduced fertility. Hypothyroidism is unlikely as her symptoms are not compatible and her TSH levels would be elevated with a normal or low free T4 level.
The symptoms of thyrotoxicosis include heat intolerance, palpitations, dyspnea, tremulousness, menstrual irregularities, hyperdefecation, weight loss, increased appetite, proximal muscle weakness, fatigue, insomnia, and mood disturbances. The most common causes of hyperthyroidism are Graves disease and toxic adenoma(s). While the patient has thyrotoxicosis-related symptoms, hyperthyroidism due to Graves disease results in a suppressed TSH level with an elevated free T4 level, which is not found in this case.

**Bibliography**

Amlashi FG, Tritos NA. Thyrotropin-secreting pituitary adenomas: epidemiology, diagnosis, and management. Endocrine. 2016;52:427-40. PMID: 26792794 doi:10.1007/s12020-016-0863-3

This content was last updated in August 2018.