
### Correct Answer: B) Dopamine agonist therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Manage secondary amenorrhea due to a prolactinoma.

#### **Key Point:** Symptomatic prolactinomas are treated with dopamine agonists.

This patient has a prolactinoma resulting in amenorrhea and infertility due to the inhibitory effect of the elevated prolactin level on gonadotropin secretion. Prolactinomas are treated with dopamine agonists. The two FDA-approved dopamine agonists are bromocriptine and cabergoline. Cabergoline is much better tolerated and more effective at normalizing prolactin and tumor shrinkage, so it is typically the initial therapy chosen but is more expensive than bromocriptine. Dopamine agonists typically decrease the size and hormone production of prolactinomas rapidly. Response to therapy can be monitored by checking serum prolactin levels 1 month after initiating therapy and then every 3 to 4 months. Decreasing serum prolactin usually correlates with decreasing the size of the tumor. Normalization of prolactin concentrations with dopamine agonist therapy to allow spontaneous ovulation is the goal of management in women with microadenomas (<1 cm in size) considering pregnancy. Dopamine agonist therapy is effective at lowering prolactin levels, decreasing tumor size, and restoring gonadal function.
For women who do not ovulate with dopamine agonist therapy, clomiphene citrate therapy is sometimes added.
Unlike other pituitary tumors, medication rather than surgery is first-line therapy for prolactinomas. Even patients with severe mass effect such as vision loss are treated with medical therapy initially. Rarely, very large tumors or more invasive prolactinomas do not shrink with medical therapy and, also rarely, continue to grow. In these patients, surgery should be considered, followed by radiotherapy if growth recurs or continues. After being debulked, the prolactinoma may respond better to medical therapy.
Resuming an oral contraceptive pill will not correct the underlying disorder and would not assist this patient in becoming pregnant.

**Bibliography**

Melmed S, Casanueva FF, Hoffman AR, Kleinberg DL, Montori VM, Schlechte JA, et al; Endocrine Society. Diagnosis and treatment of hyperprolactinemia: an Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2011;96:273-88. PMID: 21296991 doi:10.1210/jc.2010-1692

This content was last updated in August 2018.