
### Correct Answer: B) Decrease insulin glargine dose, discontinue insulin aspart 

**Educational Objective:** Manage the “honeymoon phase” of type 1 diabetes mellitus.

#### **Key Point:** Continuing insulin, even at low doses, is recommended during the “honeymoon phase” of type 1 diabetes mellitus to reduce metabolic stress on functioning beta cells and preserve any residual function for as long as possible.

The most appropriate management of this patient's diabetes is to decrease the insulin glargine dose and discontinue insulin aspart. The drastic reduction in endogenous insulin production secondary to pancreatic beta cell destruction in type 1 diabetes creates a glucose toxicity that induces a functional impairment of the remaining beta cells. As exogenous insulin therapy improves glycemic control, the remaining beta cells experience less metabolic stress, resulting in an improvement in the ability to produce insulin. This “honeymoon phase” may occur shortly after the diagnosis of diabetes and may last months to years. It is characterized by drastic improvements in glycemic control and reductions in insulin requirements, as seen in this patient. To prevent rapid return of glucose toxicity and to preserve the remaining beta cells as long as possible, insulin therapy should be continued during the “honeymoon phase” if possible without causing hypoglycemia. It is appropriate to decrease this patient's basal glargine insulin dose to improve his fasting hypoglycemia while also maintaining continuous insulin therapy. Given the symptomatic postprandial hypoglycemia he is experiencing on low doses of prandial insulin, it is appropriate to discontinue it at this time with close monitoring for postprandial hyperglycemia at the end of the “honeymoon phase.”
Sole use of a sliding-scale insulin regimen is not recommended for glycemic control as it is reactionary in nature to elevated glucose values only. Using this strategy, it would be possible that the patient may not receive daily insulin during the “honeymoon phase,” which would accelerate the risk of developing glucose toxicity again.

**Bibliography**

DeWitt DE, Hirsch IB. Outpatient insulin therapy in type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus: scientific review. JAMA. 2003;289:2254-64. PMID: 12734137

This content was last updated in August 2018.