
### Correct Answer: A) Continue denosumab 

**Educational Objective:** Manage postmenopausal osteoporosis in patients taking denosumab.

#### **Key Point:** When administered subcutaneously twice yearly, denosumab suppresses bone resorption, increases bone density, and reduces the incidence of osteoporotic fractures in men and women; the effects of denosumab are not sustained when treatment is stopped.

The most appropriate management for this patient is to continue denosumab. Denosumab, a monoclonal antibody against the receptor activator of nuclear factor κB ligand (RANKL), reduces bone resorption by inhibiting the development of osteoclasts. It circulates in the blood for up to 9 months after subcutaneous injection, but once cleared from the circulation, bone resorption transiently but dramatically increases, resulting in an abrupt decline in bone mineral density and, in some cases, vertebral fractures. Once initiated, there is no defined endpoint for cessation of denosumab therapy.
Although bone mineral density increases in response to denosumab therapy, it does not impact management with respect to dose and duration of treatment. Therefore, a DEXA scan is not necessary.
In the pharmacologic management of osteoporosis, drug holidays are considered during the course of bisphosphonate therapy. Due to their binding to bone tissue, bisphosphonates have durable effects on bone remodeling and fracture risk after discontinuation. After 5 years of treatment, patients at low risk for fracture can be considered for a bisphosphonate drug holiday. One study showed no cumulative difference in the risk for nonvertebral fractures in women continuing alendronate therapy for 5 versus 10 years. Post hoc analysis of this study showed that women with femoral neck T scores of –2.5 or worse and baseline prevalent vertebral fracture had reduced fracture risk by continuing alendronate therapy for 10 years versus stopping after 5 years compared with placebo.
Zoledronic acid is an intravenous bisphosphonate indicated for the treatment of osteoporosis especially in patients intolerant to oral bisphosphonates. Patients switched from zoledronic acid to denosumab experience further gains in bone mineral density suggesting additive benefit from this sequence of therapy. However, in patients receiving long-term denosumab, switching to zoledronic acid attenuated but did prevent loss of bone mineral density suggesting that denosumab therapy should be continued once initiated.

**Bibliography**

Anastasilakis AD, Polyzos SA, Makras P, Aubry-Rozier B, Kaouri S, Lamy O. Clinical features of 24 patients with rebound-associated vertebral fractures after denosumab discontinuation: systematic review and additional cases. J Bone Miner Res. 2017;32:1291-1296. PMID: 28240371 doi:10.1002/jbmr.3110

This content was last updated in August 2018.