
### Correct Answer: C) Decrease basal insulin dose and add correction insulin regimen 

**Educational Objective:** Manage type 1 diabetes mellitus in a hospitalized patient.

#### **Key Point:** In fasting hospitalized patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus, the basal insulin dose should be decreased, the prandial insulin held to avoid hypoglycemia, and a correction insulin regimen should be added to help manage hyperglycemia.

The most appropriate management of this patient's type 1 diabetes mellitus is to decrease basal insulin dose by 10% to 20% and add correction insulin regimen. This patient's fasting blood glucose values were already low on his home basal insulin doses, thus it is most appropriate to continue his basal insulin but at a reduced dose to avoid diabetic ketoacidosis and hypoglycemia. Correction insulin with basal insulin will treat hyperglycemia while he is fasting. Patients with type 1 diabetes must have continuous insulin therapy, particularly basal insulin, to avoid the development of DKA. Because of the requirement of continuous insulin, prolonged fasting in a patient with type 1 diabetes can be complicated by hypoglycemia. Proactive adjustments to insulin doses are required to avoid extreme fluctuations in glycemic control while in the fasting state.
This patient's fasting blood glucose value of 70 mg/dL (3.9 mmol/L) on the current basal insulin dose meets the American Diabetes Association's threshold value for downward titration of insulin doses to avoid hypoglycemia. The basal insulin dose should be decreased in addition to holding the prandial insulin in the fasting state. A correction insulin regimen should also be added to the basal insulin to help manage hyperglycemia that may occur while fasting.
Efficient glucose utilization is impaired when continuous insulin therapy, such as basal insulin, is held in type 1 diabetes. This may cause the development of diabetic ketoacidosis as a result of increased glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis for fuel production. A sliding-scale insulin regimen alone is not physiologic and may cause large fluctuations in the blood glucose levels owing to the inherent reactive nature of its dosing, coupled with the near universal lag time between measurement of glucose and injection of insulin that occurs in most hospitals.

**Bibliography**

Chiang JL, Kirkman MS, Laffel LM, Peters AL; Type 1 diabetes sourcebook authors. Type 1 diabetes through the life span: a position statement of the American Diabetes Association. Diabetes Care. 2014;37:2034-54. PMID: 24935775 doi:10.2337/dc14-1140

This content was last updated in May 2019.