
### Correct Answer: A) Obtain a pituitary MRI 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose the cause of hyperprolactinemia.

#### **Key Point:** Antipsychotic agents cause hyperprolactinemia due to their antidopaminergic effect, which interrupts the inhibition of prolactin by dopamine; risperidone may raise the prolactin level above 200 ng/mL (200 μg/L).

The most appropriate next step in managing this patient is to obtain a pituitary MRI. The most common cause of hyperprolactinemia is physiologic; prolactin is released during pregnancy and postpartum to cause lactation. Another common cause of hyperprolactinemia is primary hypothyroidism. Hypothyroidism can cause diffuse hypertrophy of the pituitary gland that may resemble enlargement due to a pituitary adenoma on imaging. Nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas can also cause hyperprolactinemia by compressing the pituitary stalk and decreasing dopamine inhibition of prolactin secretion. Medications are a common cause of hyperprolactinemia. Antipsychotic agents cause hyperprolactinemia due to their antidopaminergic effect that interrupts the inhibition of prolactin by dopamine. Agents such as risperidone may raise the prolactin level above 200 ng/mL (200 μg/L). Evaluation for pituitary hypersecretion when a patient is taking a medication known to raise the prolactin level is difficult. When the prolactin level is only mildly elevated (<50 ng/mL [50 μg/L]), it may be reasonable to assume that hyperprolactinemia is a medication side effect. When significantly elevated (>100 ng/mL [100 μg/L]), either the medication needs to be withheld to further assess or a pituitary MRI obtained to evaluate for prolactinoma. Caution is warranted when discontinuation of an antipsychotic agent is being considered, and consultation with a psychiatrist is recommended prior to discontinuation. The Schizophrenia Patient Outcomes Research Team psychopharmacological treatment recommendations support continued antipsychotic treatment in order to maintain symptom relief. If the medication cannot be discontinued, and likely will not be in this patient, a pituitary MRI is required to exclude the diagnosis of pituitary tumor.
Prolactinomas are treated with dopamine agonists. The two FDA-approved dopamine agonists are bromocriptine and cabergoline. Dopamine agonists typically decrease the size and hormone production of prolactinomas rapidly. Decreasing serum prolactin usually correlates with decreasing size of the tumor. Dopamine agonist therapy is not warranted without first diagnosing a prolactinoma with an MRI. Furthermore, addition of dopamine agonist therapy could worsen this patient's psychiatric disease.
Starting an oral contraceptive pill is inappropriate at this time since this patient needs a pituitary MRI to rule out a pituitary tumor prior to making a treatment decision. Once a pituitary tumor is ruled out, she can be started on an oral contraceptive pill to treat her estrogen deficiency caused by the hyperprolactinemia.
While stopping risperidone, or any psychiatric medication, may lead to decreased prolactin, this requires consultation and coordination of care with the patient's psychiatrist.

**Bibliography**

Peuskens J, Pani L, Detraux J, De Hert M. The effects of novel and newly approved antipsychotics on serum prolactin levels: a comprehensive review. CNS Drugs. 2014;28:421-53. PMID: 24677189 doi:10.1007/s40263-014-0157-3

This content was last updated in March 2021.