
### Correct Answer: C) 25-Hydroxyvitamin D level 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient with severe primary hyperparathyroidism who is to undergo parathyroidectomy.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with primary hyperparathyroidism who are undergoing parathyroidectomy surgery, identifying and correcting vitamin D deficiency is important to avoid postoperative hypocalcemia, which occurs due to rapid flux of serum calcium into bone (hungry bone syndrome).

The most appropriate test to perform next for this patient is measurement of her 25-hydroxyvitamin D level. Vitamin D deficiency is common in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism (HPT) due to increased conversion of 25-hydroxyvitamin D to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D. Supplementation of vitamin D in patients with HPT has been shown to reduce parathyroid hormone levels, decrease bone turnover, and improve bone mineral density. Identifying and treating vitamin D deficiency perioperatively helps manage transient hypocalcemia, which routinely occurs after parathyroidectomy and especially in severe HPT where high bone turnover (as evidence by an elevated alkaline phosphatase) portends hungry bone syndrome.
Due to increased conversion, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels are frankly elevated in most instances of hyperparathyroidism and even in patients who are vitamin D deficient. It is not a useful test to identify and manage vitamin D deficiency in any circumstance and could be falsely reassuring in patients with HPT.
Given kidney excretion of calcium is the dominant mechanism by which hypercalcemia is corrected, urine calcium excretion can be assumed to be high in severe hypercalcemia with the exception of patients with severe acute kidney injury. Although guidelines suggest routine assessment of 24-hour urine calcium in the evaluation of HPT to exclude familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia, the need for such screening primarily occurs when parathyroid hormone and calcium levels are mildly elevated. Additionally, a clinical diagnosis has already been established for this patient making 24-hour urine calcium measurement unnecessary.
Ionized calcium is the best test to assess the state of calcium homeostasis and is recommended by some experts when managing HPT. However, it is primarily of use when evaluating and managing hypocalcemia, especially when assumptions cannot be made regarding serum protein concentrations and blood pH.

**Bibliography**

Kaderli RM, Riss P, Dunkler D, Pietschmann P, Selberherr A, Scheuba C, Niederle B. The impact of vitamin D status on hungry bone syndrome after surgery for primary hyperparathyroidism. Eur J Endocrinol. 2017 Sep 6. pii: EJE-17-0416. [Epub ahead of print] PMID: 28877925 doi:10.1530/EJE-17-0416

This content was last updated in August 2018.