
### Correct Answer: D) Subclinical Cushing syndrome 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose subclinical Cushing syndrome in a patient with an incidentally noted adrenal mass.

#### **Key Point:** Initial testing for subclinical Cushing syndrome is a 1-mg overnight dexamethasone suppression test; a cortisol level greater than 5 µg/dL (138 nmol/L) is considered a positive test.

The most likely diagnosis in this patient with an incidentally discovered adrenal mass is subclinical Cushing syndrome. All patients with an incidental adrenal mass should be screened for subclinical Cushing syndrome (SCS), a condition characterized by adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-independent cortisol secretion that may result in metabolic (hyperglycemia and hypertension) and bone (osteoporosis) effects of hypercortisolism, but not the more specific features of Cushing syndrome (centripetal obesity, facial plethora, abnormal fat deposition in the supraclavicular or dorsocervical areas, and wide violaceous striae). The preferred diagnostic test for SCS is a 1-mg overnight dexamethasone suppression test, with a morning cortisol level greater than 5 µg/dL (138 nmol/L) considered positive. Following a positive result for SCS, measurement of ACTH, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS), urine free cortisol, and an 8-mg overnight dexamethasone suppression test are often required to confirm autonomous cortisol secretion. If SCS is confirmed, the risks and benefits of surgery need to be considered. Surgery for SCS has been associated with improvements in bone density and glucose, lipid, and blood pressure control.
This patient's serum cortisol level did not suppress to less than 5 µg/dL (138 nmol/L) following dexamethasone administration. Under normal conditions, exposure to dexamethasone results in suppression of ACTH secretion and hence suppression of adrenal cortisol secretion. In the setting of autonomous cortisol secretion from an adrenal mass, cortisol suppression following dexamethasone administration would not occur, as tumor production of cortisol is not under normal physiologic feedback control.
The patient's plasma free metanephrine levels were within the normal range. This test has excellent sensitivity, and a normal result rules out pheochromocytoma.
Primary aldosteronism is also unlikely based on a calculated plasma aldosterone-plasma renin ratio (ARR) of less than 20. Her blood pressure medications, hydrochlorothiazide and doxazosin, have minimal or mild effects on the ARR, and therefore the result can be reliably interpreted.

**Bibliography**

Fassnacht M, Wiebke A, Bancos, Dralle H, Newell-Price J, Sahdev A, Tabarin A, Terzolo M, Tsagarakis S, Dekkers OM. Management of adrenal incidentalomas: European Society of Endocrinology Clinical Practice Guideline in collaboration with the European Network for the Study of Adrenal Tumors. Eur J Endocrinol. 2016;175(2):G1–G34. PMID: 27390021

This content was last updated in August 2018.