
### Correct Answer: B) 24-Hour urine free cortisol measurement 

**Educational Objective:** Screen for Cushing syndrome in a patient with an alternate sleep schedule.

#### **Key Point:** The 24-hour urine free cortisol test for Cushing syndrome is not impacted by either estrogen therapy or sleeping patterns.

This patient should be screened for Cushing syndrome, and the best screening test in this patient is measurement of 24-hour urine free cortisol to quantify total daily cortisol secretion. Biochemical testing is used to establish the diagnosis of Cushing syndrome. It is critical that the biochemical diagnosis is firmly established prior to any imaging studies due to the relatively high prevalence of clinically insignificant pituitary and adrenal masses. Initial tests include the 1-mg overnight dexamethasone suppression test, 24-hour urine free cortisol, and late-night salivary cortisol. While the 1-mg overnight dexamethasone test and the late-night salivary cortisol test may be more convenient, they are likely to be less accurate in this patient because of her shift work and estrogen use. Measurement of 24-hour urine free cortisol is not impacted by estrogen therapy or sleeping patterns. A threefold or greater increase over normal values is diagnostic of Cushing syndrome if compatible clinical features are present (centripetal obesity, facial plethora, abnormal fat deposition in the supraclavicular or dorsocervical areas, and wide violaceous striae); if this increase is present, test results should be repeated to confirm the abnormal result.
The 1-mg overnight dexamethasone suppression test is also not reliable in this patient because it relies on serum cortisol measurement.
The late night salivary cortisol test is not a reliable screening test in this patient because she works a night shift and therefore her diurnal cortisol secretion will be reversed.
Measurement of morning serum cortisol is unreliable as a screening test for Cushing syndrome because normal secretion of cortisol is pulsatile and the normal range is broad. Hence, there is considerable overlap between serum cortisol levels seen in normal people, those with Cushing syndrome, and those with hypercortisolism due to psychological or medical stressors.
In addition, serum cortisol measurement is unreliable in this patient as she is on oral estrogen, which leads to an increase in cortisol binding proteins and subsequent elevation of serum total cortisol levels without impacting free cortisol levels.

**Bibliography**

Loriaux DL. Diagnosis and differential diagnosis of Cushing's syndrome. N Engl J Med. 2017;376:1451-1459. [PMID:28402781] doi:10.1056/NEJMra1505550

This content was last updated in August 2018.