
### Correct Answer: E) Spironolactone-induced gynecomastia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose medication-induced male gynecomastia.

#### **Key Point:** Gynecomastia can be an adverse effect of medications; spironolactone causes an imbalance between free estrogen and free androgen resulting in glandular breast tissue enlargement.

This patient most likely has spironolactone-induced gynecomastia. Gynecomastia occurs due to an imbalance between free estrogen and free androgen actions in breast tissue. Spironolactone is a known cause of gynecomastia. Spironolactone can increase the aromatization of testosterone to estradiol, decrease the testosterone production by the testes, and displace testosterone from sex hormone-binding globulin, thereby increasing its metabolic clearance rate. Additionally, spironolactone also acts as an antiandrogen by binding to androgen receptors and displacing binding of testosterone and dihydrotestosterone to their receptors. Other recognized drug-related causes of gynecomastia include marijuana, alcohol, 5α-reductase inhibitors, H2-receptor antagonists, digoxin, ketoconazole, calcium channel blockers, ACE inhibitors, antiretroviral agents, tricyclic antidepressants, and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors.
Breast cancers are typically unilateral and nontender with a discrete fixed mass displaced from the nipple-areolar complex, whereas gynecomastia presents as a rubbery, concentric, subareolar mass. Gynecomastia is typically bilateral and often associated with breast tenderness.
Germ cell tumors account for 95% of testicular neoplasms with 6% of patients presenting with gynecomastia at time of diagnosis. The temporal association of gynecomastia with the initiation of a medication known to cause gynecomastia and a normal testicular examination makes germ cell tumor a much less likely diagnosis.
Hypogonadism, primary more so than secondary, is associated with gynecomastia due to an increase in estradiol relative to testosterone secretion. With primary hypogonadism, a rise in luteinizing hormone results in increased aromatization of testosterone to estradiol; this elevated luteinizing hormone is absent in secondary hypogonadism thus making gynecomastia a less prominent sign. This patient has unchanged sexual functioning, morning erections, and no evidence of testicular atrophy making hypogonadism an unlikely diagnosis.
Pseudogynecomastia is often seen in men with obesity. It occurs due to an increase in breast fat without any proliferation of glandular tissue. Gynecomastia and pseudogynecomastia are differentiated by examination. Pseudogynecomastia is characterized by the presence of subareolar adipose tissue, without glandular proliferation. True gynecomastia typically distorts the normally flat contour of the male nipple, causing it to protrude owing to the mass of glandular tissue beneath it. In pseudogynecomastia, the nipple is typically still flat but soft, and nondescript subcutaneous fat tissue is present in the breast area.

**Bibliography**

Dickson G. Gynecomastia. Am Fam Physician. 2012;85:716-22. PMID: 22534349

This content was last updated in August 2018.