
### Correct Answer: A) Celiac disease 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose celiac disease as a cause of thyroxine malabsorption.

#### **Key Point:** Malabsorptive disorders may decrease levothyroxine absorption resulting in higher than expected levothyroxine dose requirements.

The most likely diagnosis is celiac disease. The patient had been taking the same dose of levothyroxine for many years, but recently has required increasing doses to maintain euthyroidism. Despite his levothyroxine dose being increased, his serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level remains elevated, his free thyroxine (T4) is at the lower limit of the normal reference range, and he continues to have symptoms of thyroid hormone deficiency. Rising levothyroxine requirements in the absence of obvious medication noncompliance or inappropriate administration should alert the treating physician about possible malabsorption. Since levothyroxine is principally absorbed in the jejunum and ileum, any disease process affecting the small bowel can affect the fraction of an orally administered dose that is absorbed. The patient reports abdominal pain, weight loss, and a rash that is characteristic of dermatitis herpetiformis, a finding that is unique to celiac disease. Patients with celiac disease frequently experience malabsorption of medications, vitamins, and other nutrients.
Medication noncompliance is a less likely explanation for this patient's escalating levothyroxine requirements given his prior history of being easily maintained on a stable dose of levothyroxine and self-reported adherence to his prescribed regimen. Medication noncompliance would not explain his associated symptoms of abdominal cramping, skin rash, and unintentional weight loss.
Autoimmune primary adrenal insufficiency occurs more commonly in patients with other autoimmune disorders, and this patient does report gastrointestinal symptoms and weight loss; however, he does not demonstrate hyperpigmentation or hypotension. Moreover, adrenal insufficiency would not provide an explanation for his rising levothyroxine dose requirements or skin rash.
Thyroid hormone resistance is also unlikely. The patient would not be expected to have had normal thyroid function test results previously, and his free T4 would be elevated.

**Bibliography**

Centanni M, Benvenga S, Sachmechi I. Diagnosis and management of treatment-refractory hypothyroidism: an expert consensus report. J Endocrinol Invest. 2017 Jul 10. [Epub ahead of print] PMID: 28695483 doi:10.1007/s40618-017-0706-y

This content was last updated in March 2021.