
### Correct Answer: B) Obtain semen analysis 

**Educational Objective:** Manage infertility.

#### **Key Point:** When evaluating infertility, both female and male factors should be considered concurrently; semen analysis is part of the initial diagnostic evaluation.

When evaluating infertility, both female and male factors should be considered concurrently. Thus, semen analysis is part of the initial diagnostic evaluation. Collection should occur after 2 to 3 days of sexual abstinence, but no longer to avoid decreased sperm motility. If semen analysis is abnormal, it should be repeated at least 2 weeks later, and if results are abnormal, referral to a reproductive endocrinologist is recommended.
Given that this patient has regular menses every 28 days with molimina symptoms (breast pain and bloating), her cycles appear to be ovulatory. Thus, laboratory assessment of ovulatory function is not needed at this time. In patients who do not have normal menstrual cycles with ovulation, laboratory assessment should be performed. A midluteal phase serum progesterone level, obtained approximately 1 week before the expected menses, is an effective way to assess ovulatory status. A progesterone level above 3 ng/mL (9.5 nmol/L) is evidence of recent ovulation. Measurement of serum thyroid stimulating hormone and prolactin levels is appropriate to exclude thyroid disease and hyperprolactinemia as causes of oligo-ovulation.
In women over the age of 35 years, an infertility evaluation is initiated after 6 months of unprotected intercourse; in women under the age of 35, an infertility evaluation is initiated after 1 year of regular unprotected intercourse. Recommending an additional 5 months of unprotected intercourse is unnecessary for this 37-year-old woman.
Laparoscopy for evaluation of pelvic adhesions or mild endometriosis may be warranted in patients with dysmenorrhea, history of sexually transmitted infections, or previous pelvic surgery. While assessment of tubal patency may be indicated in this patient given her prior history of appendicitis and abdominal surgery (putting her at risk for adhesions), laparoscopy is not indicated at this immediate time prior to moving forward with an initial noninvasive diagnostic evaluation.

**Bibliography**

Marshburn PB. Counseling and diagnostic evaluation for the infertile couple. Obstet Gynecol Clin North Am. 2015;42:1-14. PMID: 25681836 doi:10.1016/j.ogc.2014.10.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.