
### Correct Answer: B) Chronic opioid therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Recognize the effect of opioids on pituitary function.

#### **Key Point:** Chronic opioid use suppresses gonadotroph function, resulting in hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, which is increasingly recognized as a cause of secondary hypogonadism.

This patient's opioid use is most likely responsible for his sexual dysfunction. Secondary hypogonadism is typically a result of insufficient gonadotropin-releasing hormone production by the hypothalamus or deficient luteinizing hormone (LH)/follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) secretion by the anterior pituitary. This patient has symptoms of hypogonadism and a low testosterone level. Low or inappropriately normal FSH and LH levels in the presence of simultaneous low testosterone levels are diagnostic of secondary hypogonadism (hypogonadotropic hypogonadism). Untreated sleep apnea, exogenous testosterone administration, and obesity are common causes of secondary hypogonadism. Other acquired causes include hyperprolactinemia, chronic opioid use, glucocorticoid use, or infiltrative disease (lymphoma or hemochromatosis). Chronic opioid therapy is a well-established cause of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. The mechanism of opioid-induced hypogonadism is thought to be central hypogonadism, with downregulation of gonadotropin-releasing hormone and subsequently LH and FSH. This, in turn, results in decreased testosterone production.
This patient's decline in gonadal function is not a result of his age. Although testosterone levels may decline with age, this patient's testosterone level of 185 ng/dL (6.4 nmol/L) is well below the normal range and below what would be expected for age-related decline in testosterone.
Although a pituitary tumor isn't completely ruled out without an MRI, the most likely cause of this patient's hypogonadism is the chronic opioid therapy. Testosterone levels greater than 150 ng/dL (5.2 nmol/L) are less likely to be related to a pituitary tumor. Patients with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism and testosterone levels less than 150 ng/dL (5.2 nmol/L) should have an MRI to evaluate for a pituitary tumor. The normal TSH and prolactin levels also argue against a pituitary or hypothalamic tumor.
In primary gonadal failure, there would be elevated FSH and LH levels with a low testosterone level. A low testosterone level with inappropriately normal or low FSH and LH levels is consistent with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.

**Bibliography**

O’Rourke TK Jr, Wosnitzer MS. Opioid-induced androgen deficiency (opiad): diagnosis, management, and literature review. Curr Urol Rep. 2016;17:76. PMID: 27586511 doi:10.1007/s11934-016-0634-y

This content was last updated in August 2018.