
### Correct Answer: C) Turner syndrome 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Turner syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** The most common cause of primary amenorrhea is gonadal dysgenesis, most commonly associated with Turner syndrome (45,X0).

The most common cause of primary amenorrhea is gonadal dysgenesis caused by chromosomal abnormalities, most commonly those associated with Turner syndrome (TS). TS is caused by loss of part or all of an X chromosome (45,X0) occurring in 1 in 2500 live female births. In some studies, more than 20% of patients are diagnosed after 12 years of age; primary amenorrhea may be the presenting sign. The most consistent physical finding is short stature, as seen in this patient. Other findings may include neck webbing, hearing loss, aortic coarctation, and bicuspid aortic valve. Primary amenorrhea is seen in approximately 90% of women with TS. TS should be considered in women with primary or secondary amenorrhea, particularly those of short stature. Diagnosis is made by karyotype analysis.
Functional hypothalamic amenorrhea is caused by a functional disruption of the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis in which no anatomic or organic disease is identified. Disruption of the pulsatile release of hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone may occur due to stress, weight loss, or exercise; follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) levels are not elevated in functional hypothalamic amenorrhea.
Primary ovarian insufficiency is considered when a woman younger than 40 years of age develops secondary amenorrhea with two serum FSH levels in the menopausal range (>35 mU/mL [35 U/L]). This condition impacts 1 in 100 women by the age of 40 years. If during the evaluation of secondary amenorrhea, an elevated FSH is found, it should be repeated in 1 month, along with a serum estradiol measurement. In young women, karyotype analysis is also indicated to rule out Turner syndrome.
Vaginal agenesis is the second most common cause of primary amenorrhea with an incidence of 1 in 5000. Vaginal agenesis is characterized by congenital absence of the vagina with variable uterine development. These women have a normal female karyotype and ovarian function, thus develop normal secondary sexual characteristics. Presentation is typically after age 15 years due to primary amenorrhea. Examination reveals normal external genitalia with a dimple or small pouch replacing the vagina. On laboratory testing, gonadotropins are unremarkable. This patient's normal pelvic examination eliminates this vaginal agenesis as a cause of primary amenorrhea.

**Bibliography**

Pinsker JE. Clinical review: Turner syndrome: updating the paradigm of clinical care. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2012;97:E994-1003. PMID: 22472565 doi:10.1210/jc.2012-1245

This content was last updated in August 2018.