
### Correct Answer: B) Mixed-meal testing 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate postprandial hypoglycemia in a patient without diabetes.

#### **Key Point:** A mixed-meal test consisting of the types of food that normally induce the hypoglycemia should be performed to determine the cause of postprandial hypoglycemia.

The most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next is mixed-meal testing. Hypoglycemia in persons without diabetes is extremely rare and requires additional investigation. Causes of hypoglycemia in adults without diabetes include drug or alcohol use, critical illness, hormonal deficiency, non-islet cell tumor, endogenous hyperinsulinism, accidental or intentional hypoglycemia, and prior Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery. Postprandial hypoglycemia can develop 2 to 3 years after Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery. The patient either denies or does not have clinical evidence for the presence of many of these causes. The timing of the hypoglycemia can guide the appropriate next diagnostic test.
This patient is experiencing postprandial symptoms consistent with an increase in sympathetic activity within 5 hours of a meal. He meets two out of three criteria for a hypoglycemic disorder as defined by the Whipple triad: symptoms that can be attributed to hypoglycemia and resolution of symptoms with food consumption. He does not have documented hypoglycemia at the time of symptoms from a reliable laboratory method to meet the third criteria of the Whipple triad. Point-of-care fingerstick measurements lack precision to confirm hypoglycemia. An attempt should be made to recreate the scenario that is likely to cause the symptoms. Since his symptoms occur in the postprandial state, a mixed-meal test should be performed. The mixed-meal consists of food types that have induced the onset of symptoms in the past. The patient should have the following hypoglycemic laboratory tests measured at baseline and every 30 minutes for 5 hours after consuming the mixed-meal: plasma glucose, insulin, C-peptide, β-hydroxybutyrate (low in the presence of insulin), and proinsulin. He should also repeat these tests at the time of symptomatic hypoglycemia (<60 mg/dL [3.3 mmol/L]) before administering carbohydrates. If symptomatic hypoglycemia is documented during the mixed-meal testing, the patient should also be screened for insulin secretagogues (sulfonylureas and meglitinides) and insulin antibodies.
A 72-hour fast involves prolonged fasting while measuring the hypoglycemic laboratory test (plasma glucose, insulin, C-peptide, β-hydroxybutyrate, and proinsulin) every 6 hours, followed by every 1 to 2 hours once the glucose is less than 60 mg/dL (3.3 mmol/L) or the patient becomes symptomatic. Given that the patient is experiencing postprandial symptoms, the 72-hour fast would likely not induce hypoglycemia.
An oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) consists of liquid caloric consumption that is usually not similar to the type of food that induces symptomatic postprandial hypoglycemia. The OGTT can produce unreliable results, particularly in those patients with altered gastric anatomy or gastric motility.
Pancreatic imaging should only occur after biochemical confirmation of endogenous hyperinsulinism.

**Bibliography**

Cryer PE, Axelrod L, Grossman AB, Heller SR, Montori VM, Seaquist ER, et al; Endocrine Society. Evaluation and management of adult hypoglycemic disorders: an Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2009;94:709-28. PMID: 19088155 doi:10.1210/jc.2008-1410

This content was last updated in August 2018.