
### Correct Answer: A) Initiation of hydrocortisone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat secondary adrenal insufficiency.

#### **Key Point:** Oral, injectable (including joint injections), and even topical glucocorticoids are able to suppress adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion and result in secondary adrenal insufficiency.

This patient has secondary adrenal insufficiency, and hydrocortisone is the most appropriate treatment. Oral, injectable (including joint injections), and occasionally even topical glucocorticoids are able to suppress adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion. Glucocorticoids prescribed at doses above physiologic replacement for longer than 3 weeks should be tapered when discontinued allowing recovery of the pituitary-adrenal axis; if therapy has lasted less than 3 weeks, no taper is required for pituitary-adrenal axis recovery. The diagnosis of adrenal insufficiency is based on demonstrating inappropriately low serum cortisol levels. Because most assays measure total cortisol, abnormalities in cortisol-binding protein or albumin can trigger spurious results. An early morning (8 AM) serum cortisol of less than 3 μg/dL (82.8 nmol/L) is consistent with cortisol deficiency, whereas values greater than 15 to 18 μg/dL (414.0-496.8 nmol/L) exclude the diagnosis when binding protein abnormalities and synthetic glucocorticoid exposure are excluded.
Fludrocortisone in addition to hydrocortisone is unwarranted as fludrocortisone is needed only in primary adrenal insufficiency. There is no mineralocorticoid deficiency in secondary adrenal insufficiency.
An ACTH stimulation test is not necessary in this patient since the cortisol level less than 3 µg/dL (82.8 nmol/L) is diagnostic of adrenal insufficiency. If an ACTH stimulation test were necessary, dexamethasone can be given prior to the ACTH stimulation test since dexamethasone is not measureable in the cortisol assay. That is unnecessary given this patient's cortisol level.

**Bibliography**

Pazderska A, Pearce SH. Adrenal insufficiency - recognition and management. Clin Med (Lond). 2017;17:258-262. PMID: 28572228 doi:0.7861/clinmedicine.17-3-258

This content was last updated in August 2018.