
### Correct Answer: C) Hydrocortisone twice daily and fludrocortisone once daily 

**Educational Objective:** Treat primary adrenal insufficiency.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with primary adrenal failure require both glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid replacement therapy.

This most appropriate treatment for this patient is hydrocortisone twice daily and fludrocortisone once daily. She has primary adrenal insufficiency, which affects all layers of the adrenal cortex, and therefore she requires both glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid (aldosterone) therapy. Primary adrenal insufficiency is confirmed in this patient by the combination of low serum cortisol level and elevated serum adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) level. Manifestations of aldosterone deficiency are hyponatremia and hyperkalemia. Some patients with primary adrenal insufficiency have normal serum electrolytes and therefore require measurement of plasma renin activity (high) and serum aldosterone (low or inappropriately normal) to confirm mineralocorticoid deficiency. The preferred glucocorticoid for treatment of adrenal insufficiency is hydrocortisone which, because of its shorter duration of action, can be prescribed two or three times daily to better mimic the circadian rhythm of endogenous cortisol secretion. The total daily recommended dose of hydrocortisone ranges from 15 to 25 mg. A higher dose of hydrocortisone (~15 mg) is given in the morning with the remaining dose (~5 mg) given in the afternoon (or in a thrice daily regimen, the second dose of hydrocortisone is given at noon with the third, smaller dose taken later in the afternoon). For patients who have difficulty adhering to a twice-daily medication regimen, prednisone once daily in the morning may be substituted.
Dexamethasone has a long duration of action with the potential to cause comorbidities from excess glucocorticoid exposure and therefore should not be used long-term to treat adrenal insufficiency.
There are no adequate trial data to direct optimal dose and timing of glucocorticoid replacement. Measurement of serum cortisol and/or ACTH is not helpful. Glucocorticoid dosing is guided by patient symptoms. Administration of doses of glucocorticoid in excess of physiologic replacement can be associated with decreased bone mineral density and features of Cushing syndrome, with increased risk of metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, obesity, and cardiovascular disease. Adequate mineralocorticoid replacement is indicated by normal blood pressure without orthostasis, absence of edema, and normal serum electrolytes.
Only glucocorticoid therapy is required in the treatment of secondary adrenal insufficiency. Fludrocortisone replacement is not required as aldosterone secretion is not under the control of ACTH. Hence, patients with secondary adrenal insufficiency do not develop hyperkalemia. Hyponatremia may be present in secondary adrenal insufficiency due to inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion and action, with resultant inability to excrete free water.

**Bibliography**

Bancos I, Hahner S, Tomlinson J, Arlt W. Diagnosis and management of adrenal insufficiency. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2015;3:216-26. PMID: 25098712 doi:10.1016/S2213-8587(14)70142-1

This content was last updated in August 2018.