
### Correct Answer: C) Weight-based replacement dose of levothyroxine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hypothyroidism with weight-based dosing of levothyroxine.

#### **Key Point:** Levothyroxine is the treatment of choice for thyroid hormone deficiency; for most younger adults without cardiac disease, a weight-based replacement dose of levothyroxine (1.6 µg/kg lean body weight) is recommended.

This patient has hypothyroidism, and the most appropriate treatment is to prescribe a weight-based replacement dose of levothyroxine (1.6 µg/kg lean body weight). For patients with high body mass index values, an estimate of lean mass should be determined. Levothyroxine is the treatment of choice for thyroid hormone deficiency. Goals of therapy are to resolve signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism, normalize serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), and avoid overtreatment.
Although some patients express a preference for treatment with desiccated thyroid hormone (thyroid extract), there are potential safety concerns and lack of data on long-term outcomes. The physiologic ratio of thyroxine (T4) to triiodothyronine (T3) secreted by the human thyroid is approximately 15:1, whereas desiccated thyroid hormone, as originally derived from animal thyroid glands, contains supraphysiologic T3 (T4 to T3 ratio 4:1). Patients taking desiccated thyroid hormone frequently experience low serum T4 and supraphysiologic T3 levels despite having a serum TSH within the reference range.
Although a full replacement dose of levothyroxine can be administered to most patients with overt hypothyroidism, older adults (age 65 years and older) and patients with cardiovascular disease should be prescribed a lower initial dose (25-50 µg/day) due to the effects of thyroid hormone on myocardial oxygen demand. The dose should be titrated based on TSH levels measured 6 to 8 weeks after any dose change. The patient described here is an otherwise healthy woman in her fifth decade of life. Prescribing a low initial dose of levothyroxine would unnecessarily delay correction of hypothyroidism.
Not prescribing treatment is also inappropriate. Although the patient does not currently report symptoms of thyroid hormone deficiency, she has overt hypothyroidism with physical findings consistent with this diagnosis (slowed reflexes) and evidence of metabolic complications (hypercholesterolemia). Hypothyroidism causes hypercholesterolemia through reduced cholesterol metabolism and contributes to the development of cardiovascular disease. Treatment of patients with overt hypothyroidism is indicated to ameliorate the risk of these complications. Guidelines differ regarding when to treat subclinical hypothyroidism (elevated serum TSH level with free T4 or total T4 levels within the reference range). For most adults with subclinical hypothyroidism, thyroid hormone replacement will result in no clinical benefits and may have little or no effect on cardiovascular events or mortality. However, treatment should be provided to women who are trying to become pregnant or patients with TSH levels greater than 20 µU/mL (20 mU/L), and treatment may be reasonable for patients with severe symptoms or adults aged 30 years old or younger.

**Bibliography**

Hennessey JV. The emergence of levothyroxine as a treatment for hypothyroidism. Endocrine. 2017;55:6-18. PMID: 27981511 doi:10.1007/s12020-016-1199-8

This content was last updated in August 2018.