
### Correct Answer: A) Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) level 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose the cause of Cushing syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** An adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) measurement should be obtained once the diagnosis of Cushing syndrome is established to determine if it is ACTH dependent or ACTH independent.

The most appropriate diagnostic test for this patient is measurement of the adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) level. Cushing disease is the term used to indicate excess cortisol production due to an ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma. Cushing syndrome refers to hypercortisolism from any cause, exogenous or endogenous, ACTH-dependent or not. The most common cause of endogenous Cushing syndrome is Cushing disease. The initial step in evaluation for Cushing disease is to seek biochemical evidence of hypercortisolism. At least two first-line tests should be diagnostically abnormal before the diagnosis is confirmed. Initial tests include the overnight low-dose dexamethasone suppression test, 24-hour urine free cortisol, and late-night salivary cortisol. The 24-hour urine free cortisol and late night salivary cortisol tests should be performed at least twice to ensure reproducibility of results. The abnormal dexamethasone suppression test and elevated urine free cortisol levels establish the diagnosis of Cushing syndrome in this patient. An ACTH measurement should be obtained once the diagnosis of Cushing syndrome is established to determine if it is ACTH dependent or ACTH independent.
Once ACTH-dependent Cushing syndrome is confirmed biochemically, a pituitary MRI should be obtained. If no pituitary tumor or a tumor less than 6 mm is visualized on MRI, an 8-mg dexamethasone suppression test is used to differentiate Cushing disease from an ectopic source of ACTH. Dexamethasone is administered at 11 PM, and cortisol is tested at 8 AM. A pituitary source of ACTH will respond to negative feedback from high doses of dexamethasone, suppressing plasma cortisol at 8 AM by more than 50%, whereas an ectopic source of ACTH will not have suppressible cortisol. However, this test has low sensitivity (88%) and specificity (57%) for Cushing disease, so inferior petrosal sinus sampling (IPSS) is often recommended before exploratory pituitary surgery. In IPSS, ACTH levels in the petrosal sinus are compared with those in the periphery after the administration of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH). A central to peripheral gradient greater than 2.0 before CRH or greater than 3.0 after CRH is diagnostic of Cushing disease.
An 8-mg dexamethasone suppression test, inferior petrosal sinus sampling, and pituitary MRI should follow, if necessary, ACTH testing. Their inclusion in the diagnostic algorithm at this point is premature and possibly unnecessary.

**Bibliography**

Loriaux DL. Diagnosis and differential diagnosis of Cushing's syndrome. N Engl J Med. 2017;376:1451-1459. PMID: 28402781 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1505550

This content was last updated in August 2018.