
### Correct Answer: D) Testosterone 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose testosterone-induced change in thyroxine-binding globulin.

#### **Key Point:** In patients receiving thyroxine replacement therapy, initiation of estrogen or raloxifene increases thyroxine-binding globulin levels whereas testosterone reduces thyroxine-binding globulin levels; in either situation a change in thyroxine dosage may be required.

The most likely explanation for the observed change in this patient's thyroid function test results is the initiation of testosterone. The administration of androgens and anabolic steroids leads to a reduction in thyroxine-binding globulin, which consequently increases the proportion of metabolically active free thyroxine that is available. Consequently, a reduction in levothyroxine dosing may be needed to prevent iatrogenic thyrotoxicosis. Conversely, higher levothyroxine doses are often required after the initiation of estrogen or selective estrogen receptor modulating therapies (tamoxifen and raloxifene) due to an increase in serum thyroxine-binding globulin concentrations.
Administering levothyroxine with coffee or calcium carbonate and treatment with omeprazole all decrease the absorption of thyroxine, resulting in reduced levels of free thyroxine (T4) and elevated levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone. Calcium carbonate reduces the maximum absorption of levothyroxine by 25%. Because calcium and ferrous sulfate can bind levothyroxine, the ingestion of either medication, even as a component of a multivitamin, should be separated from levothyroxine by 4 hours. Administering levothyroxine with coffee, whether caffeinated or not, has been shown to reduce the absorption of levothyroxine. Ideally, levothyroxine should be taken 60 minutes before food or coffee is consumed. Oral levothyroxine is absorbed in the jejunum and ileum. The absorption of an orally administered dose is 70% to 80% under optimum fasting conditions, and an acidic gastric pH is important. Chronic therapy with omeprazole and other proton pump inhibitors impairs levothyroxine absorption by increasing gastric pH.

**Bibliography**

Tahboub R, Arafah BM. Sex steroids and the thyroid. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2009 Dec;23(6):769-80. PMID: 19942152 doi:10.1016/j.beem.2009.06.005

This content was last updated in August 2018.