
### Correct Answer: A) Alendronate 

**Educational Objective:** Treat postmenopausal osteoporosis.

#### **Key Point:** Alendronate, risedronate, zoledronic acid, and denosumab have been shown to reduce the risk for spine, hip, and nonvertebral fractures, and are generally well tolerated with low risk for serious adverse effects.

The most appropriate treatment for this patient is alendronate. The American College of Physicians (ACP) recommends that clinicians offer pharmacologic treatment with alendronate, risedronate, zoledronic acid, or denosumab to reduce the risk for hip and vertebral fractures in women who have known osteoporosis. Individual patient factors and cost help decide which agent is initially used. Bisphosphonates are the most commonly prescribed first-line therapy as they have been shown to reduce the risk of fractures in large, randomized, placebo-controlled trials, and are generally well tolerated with low risk for serious adverse effects.
Although calcitonin increases spine bone mineral density in clinical trials, its anti-fracture efficacy is inconsistent at the spine. The availability of intravenous bisphosphonates and denosumab negates the argument for calcitonin in patients who cannot tolerate oral osteoporosis medications.
Denosumab is effective for prevention of vertebral fracture in postmenopausal women, yet it is expensive and, once started, should be continued indefinitely. Even if followed by intravenous bisphosphonate therapy, discontinuation results in loss of bone mineral density and has been associated with an increased risk of vertebral fracture. Denosumab may be used safely in the setting of compromised kidney function (KDIGO stage G3b and G4). It may also be preferred in patients with poor adherence or tolerance of oral bisphosphonates.
Raloxifene is approved in postmenopausal women for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis and the prevention of invasive breast cancer in those at high risk. However, raloxifene is contraindicated in those at increased risk of venous thromboembolism. ACP recommends against raloxifene for the treatment of osteoporosis in women.
Teriparatide and abaloparatide are anabolic therapies that reduce the risk of vertebral fracture in postmenopausal osteoporosis. Each increases bone mass and strength of the spine more than antiresorptive drugs and may be preferred if spine bone mineral density is severely low (T-score ≤ −3.5), in patients who fail bisphosphonate therapy, and in glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis. Neither drug should be prescribed for patients who are at increased risk for osteosarcoma including those with a history of radiation therapy.

**Bibliography**

Qaseem A, Forciea MA, McLean RM, Denberg TD; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the American College of Physicians. Treatment of low bone density or osteoporosis to prevent fractures in men and women: A Clinical Practice Guideline Update From the American College of Physicians. Ann Intern Med. 2017;166:818-839. PMID: 28492856

This content was last updated in August 2018.