
### Correct Answer: C) Stop glyburide therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Manage medication-related hypoglycemia.

#### **Key Point:** Sulfonylureas stimulate insulin secretion, and they pose risk for hypoglycemia, especially drugs with long half-lives, such as glyburide, or in older persons.

The most appropriate management of hypoglycemia for this patient is to stop glyburide therapy. Hypoglycemia can become a rate-limiting step in achieving glycemic goals for many persons. Clinicians should consider de-intensifying pharmacologic therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes who achieve hemoglobin A1c levels less than 6.5%; furthermore, benefits of targeting a specific hemoglobin A1c target level in patients with a life expectancy less than 10 years due to advanced age should be considered carefully because the harms outweigh the benefits in this population. Therapies must be adjusted to eliminate hypoglycemia, and glycemic goals should be individualized to accommodate targets that can be safely achieved. Several factors contribute to hypoglycemia including a mismatch of food consumption and insulin delivery, increased physical exertion, weight loss, worsening kidney impairment, abnormalities in gastrointestinal motility and absorption, and accidental/intentional overdose of insulin or other hypoglycemic agents such as sulfonylureas. Older adults are also at an increased risk for hypoglycemia. Sulfonylureas stimulate insulin secretion regardless of glycemic status. Thus, they pose risk for hypoglycemia, especially in drugs with long half-lives, such as glyburide, or in older persons. In light of this patient's age, kidney impairment, and frequency of hypoglycemia, glyburide should be stopped.
Immediate carbohydrate intake is the appropriate management of hypoglycemia in the alert individual; consumption of 15 grams of a fast-acting carbohydrate followed by a self-monitored blood glucose measurement 15 minutes later with repeat treatment if glucose is not improved. In this man with obesity, increased carbohydrate intake is not the appropriate way to manage this situation on a long-term basis as it can lead to further weight gain and increased insulin resistance.
If this patient was to remain on therapy that can induce hypoglycemia, glucagon should be prescribed. Glucagon should be provided to patients at risk for developing hypoglycemia and used intramuscularly by close contacts if the individual is not able to safely consume carbohydrates to correct hypoglycemia.
Metformin is the recommended first-line oral agent for type 2 diabetes due to known effectiveness and decreased hypoglycemia risk. Although this patient has a degree of kidney impairment, it is not such that metformin needs to be discontinued. After consideration of the risk and benefits, cautious continuation of metformin in kidney impairment may occur with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) between 30 and 45 mL/min/1.73 m2. Metformin should be discontinued if the eGFR falls below 30 mL/min/1.73 m2.

**Bibliography**

Qaseem A, Wilt TJ, Kansagara D, Horwitch C, Barry MJ, Forciea MA; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the American College of Physicians. Hemoglobin A1c targets for glycemic control with pharmacologic therapy for nonpregnant adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus: A guidance statement update from the American College of Physicians. Ann Intern Med. 2018;168:569-576. PMID: 29507945

This content was last updated in August 2018.