
### Correct Answer: D) Spironolactone 

**Educational Objective:** Recognize medications that interfere with screening for primary aldosteronism.

#### **Key Point:** Spironolactone and eplerenone can significantly interfere with interpretation of the plasma aldosterone-plasma renin ratio (ARR) and therefore should be discontinued approximately 6 weeks prior to screening for primary aldosteronism.

Spironolactone can significantly interfere with interpretation of the plasma aldosterone-plasma renin ratio (ARR) and therefore should be discontinued approximately 6 weeks prior to screening for primary aldosteronism. Treatment-resistant hypertension is defined as blood pressure that remains above goal despite concurrent use of three antihypertensive agents of different classes, one of which is a diuretic. Possible situations in which screening for secondary causes of hypertension include: severe or resistant hypertension; young age of onset (in childhood or adolescence), especially in the absence of family history; abrupt worsening of blood pressure in a previously well-controlled patient; or clinical features of an underlying disorder associated with hypertension (for example, cushingoid features). Hyperaldosteronism, usually from an aldosterone-producing adenoma or bilateral idiopathic hyperaldosteronism, may be present in up to 10% of patients with hypertension. Testing for primary aldosteronism should be considered in all patients with difficult to control hypertension. It should also be performed in patients with hypertension and an incidentally noted adrenal mass or spontaneous or diuretic-induced hypokalemia. Spironolactone and eplerenone cause elevation of renin levels and hence can result in a false-negative ARR. On stopping a mineralocorticoid antagonist, the patient may develop hypokalemia if the underlying diagnosis is primary aldosteronism. Potassium should be replaced accordingly prior to screening for primary aldosteronism, as hypokalemia results in lowering of aldosterone levels and hence impacts the ARR.
In general, most antihypertensive agents can be continued during screening for primary aldosteronism except for spironolactone, eplerenone, and high-dose amiloride therapy. Specifically, verapamil, doxazosin, and hydralazine have minimal impact on the ARR and, therefore, can be continued during screening for primary aldosteronism.
Other antihypertensive agents that have minor effects on the ARR can also be continued during screening for primary aldosteronism as long as the results of the ARR are interpreted with these effects in mind. The hallmark of primary aldosteronism is a suppressed renin level. Any medication that increases renin can result in a false-negative result. On the other hand, a suppressed renin in the presence of a medication that usually would raise renin (an ACE inhibitor) raises the suspicion for primary aldosteronism.

**Bibliography**

Funder JW, Carey RM, Mantero F, Murad MH, Reincke M, Shibata H, et al. The management of primary aldosteronism: case detection, diagnosis, and treatment: an Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2016;101:1889-916. PMID: 26934393 doi:10.1210/jc.2015-4061

This content was last updated in August 2018.