
### Correct Answer: C) 7.5% to less than 8% 

**Educational Objective:** Manage type 2 diabetes mellitus by individualizing glycemic targets.

#### **Key Point:** A hemoglobin A1c goal of 7.5% to 8% is recommended for older adults with complex medical history and significant comorbidities.

This patient is an older adult with a complex/intermediate medical history. The American Diabetes Association (ADA) defines complex/intermediate medical history as the presence of at least three coexisting chronic illnesses serious enough to require medications or lifestyle management and may include arthritis, cancer, heart failure, depression, emphysema, falls, hypertension, incontinence, stage 3 or worse chronic kidney disease, myocardial infarction, and stroke. These patients are expected to have “intermediate life-expectancy,” high treatment burden, hypoglycemia vulnerability, and fall risk. The ADA's recommended hemoglobin A1c goal for a patient with similar characteristics and health status is 7.5% to 8%, if this can be achieved without significant hypoglycemia. Tighter glycemic control in this scenario would likely require an escalation in treatment burden with a subsequent increase in risks that may outweigh any potential long-term benefits. Additionally, the patient's reduced kidney function increases his hypoglycemia risk with more intense glycemic goals. The American College of Physicians (ACP) recommends that clinicians avoid targeting an hemoglobin A1c level in patients with a life expectancy less than 10 years due to advanced age (80 years or older), residence in a nursing home, or chronic conditions (such as dementia, cancer, end-stage kidney disease, severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or heart failure) because the harms outweigh the benefits in this population.
Intensive glycemic control early in the disease course in patients with type 2 diabetes may decrease the incidence of long-term cardiovascular events, as suggested from the 10-year follow-up from the UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS). Similar reductions in cardiovascular disease did not occur when tight glycemic control was applied to older adults with long-standing type 2 diabetes with prior cardiovascular events or cardiovascular risk factors in three landmark studies: Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk on Diabetes (ACCORD), Action in Diabetes and Vascular Disease: Preterax and Diamicron Modified Release Controlled Evaluation (ADVANCE), and Veterans Affairs Diabetes Trial (VADT). In addition, subjects in the intensive treatment arms had increased rates of hypoglycemia in all three studies and a higher rate of death in the ACCORD trial.
In an older healthy adult with little comorbidity, intact cognitive and functional status, the ADA recommends a hemoglobin A1c goal of less than 7.5% given the expected longer life expectancy for that person. This patient does not meet these criteria. In contrast, the ACP recommends hemoglobin A1c level between 7% and 8% in most patients with type 2 diabetes based on lack of mortality benefit for death or macrovascular events over 5 to 10 years and risk in substantial harms.
In patients with complex or poor health, a hemoglobin A1c level less than 8.5% is recommended by the ADA, if it can be achieved without significant hypoglycemia. The ADA defines very complex or poor health requiring residence in a long-term care facility or end-stage chronic illnesses (stage 3–4 heart failure, oxygen-dependent lung disease, chronic kidney disease requiring dialysis, or uncontrolled metastatic cancer), moderate to severe cognitive impairment, or two or more activity of daily living dependencies.
Hemoglobin A1c targets greater than 8.5% are generally not recommended due to an increased risk for hyperglycemia-related complications, such as dehydration from glycosuria, infections, and hyperglycemic hyperosmolar syndrome.

**Bibliography**

American Diabetes Association. 11. Older adults: Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes-2018. Diabetes Care. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S119-S125. PMID: 29222382 doi:10.2337/dc18-S011

This content was last updated in August 2018.