
### Correct Answer: A) Ipilimumab-induced hypophysitis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose ipilimumab-induced hypophysitis.

#### **Key Point:** Checkpoint inhibitors such as nivolumab, ipilimumab, and pembrolizumab have been associated with the development of hypophysitis with most patients presenting with the combination of headache, pituitary enlargement, and hypopituitarism.

In this patient, the most likely cause of pituitary enlargement and evidence of hypopituitarism is drug-induced hypophysitis. Ipilimumab is a checkpoint inhibitor that has been repeatedly associated with the development of hypophysitis in up to 17% of treated patients. Most patients present with the combination of headache, pituitary enlargement, and hypopituitarism occurring during the early phase of therapy, typically within 10 weeks. While the pituitary enlargement often resolves spontaneously, the panhypopituitarism appears to be permanent.
Lymphocytic hypophysitis is an autoimmune disease most commonly occurring in women during pregnancy and postpartum. It leads to pituitary enlargement, possible mass effect, and often deficiency of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). While the imaging and laboratory characteristics described could be consistent with lymphocytic hypophysitis, the patient's exposure to a drug known to cause hypophysitis and other aspects of the clinical history are not consistent with this diagnosis.
A pituitary adenoma is less likely given the homogeneous enhancement on MRI. Pituitary adenomas are usually evident on MRI after contrast administration. They appear as a relatively nonenhancing lesion within a homogeneously enhancing pituitary gland. This patient's MRI is not consistent with a pituitary adenoma.
Untreated primary hypothyroidism can cause pituitary enlargement due to thyrotroph hyperplasia and can mimic a pituitary adenoma. This patient's low thyroid-stimulating hormone and free thyroxine levels do not support a diagnosis of primary hypothyroidism.

**Bibliography**

Byun DJ, Wolchok JD, Rosenberg LM, Girotra M. Cancer immunotherapy - immune checkpoint blockade and associated endocrinopathies. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2017;13:195-207. PMID: 28106152 doi:10.1038/nrendo.2016.205

This content was last updated in August 2018.