
### Correct Answer: B) Adrenalectomy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a large, indeterminate adrenal mass.

#### **Key Point:** Adrenalectomy is recommended for incidental adrenal masses with radiologic features that suggest increased risk of an adrenal malignancy (size &gt;4 cm, density ≥10 Hounsfield units, and absolute contrast washout &lt;50% at 10 minutes).

The most appropriate next step in management is adrenalectomy. The patient presented with an incidental adrenal mass with radiologic features that are indeterminate for adenoma and may indicate an adrenal malignancy (size >4 cm, density ≥10 Hounsfield units, and absolute contrast washout <50% at 10 minutes). Benign adrenal adenomas tend to be small (<4 cm), often have an intracytoplasmic fat content and appear less dense on noncontrast CT scan (<10 Hounsfield units), and exhibit rapid contrast washout during delayed contrast imaging (>50% at 10 minutes). These radiologic features are not diagnostic of malignancy, as one-third of benign adrenal masses are lipid poor (≥10 Hounsfield units) and many are larger than 4 cm. However, because adrenal carcinoma is an aggressive tumor and data indicate that prognosis may be more favorable when the disease is diagnosed and treated at an earlier stage, adrenalectomy is usually recommended.
Adrenal biopsy is not routinely indicated in the diagnostic evaluation of an incidentally discovered adrenal mass, even if the suspected diagnosis is primary adrenal malignancy, because adrenocortical carcinoma can be missed due to sampling error. Adrenal biopsy may be indicated when adrenal metastasis or an infiltrative disorder such as infection or lymphoma is suspected. Screening for pheochromocytoma should be performed prior to adrenal biopsy to avoid potential hypertensive crisis during the procedure.
Mitotane, an adrenolytic drug, may be used as adjuvant therapy following primary resection. Adrenalectomy is the first-line treatment of choice for patients with suspected adrenocortical carcinoma.
Repeat abdominal CT imaging at 6 months is suggested for adrenal masses that are small (<4 cm) and have benign radiologic features. The optimal time to repeat CT imaging in the radiologically benign-appearing, or even indeterminate-appearing, incidentally noted adrenal mass, is controversial. Repeat CT imaging is not indicated in this patient with high-risk features for adrenal carcinoma.

**Bibliography**

Fassnacht M, Arlt W, Bancos I, Dralle H, Newell-Price J, Sahdev A, et al. Management of adrenal incidentalomas: European Society of Endocrinology Clinical Practice Guideline in collaboration with the European Network for the Study of Adrenal Tumors. Eur J Endocrinol. 2016;175:G1-G34. PMID: 27390021 doi:10.1530/EJE-16-0467

This content was last updated in August 2018.