
### Correct Answer: C) Magnesium 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose hypomagnesemia as the cause of hypocalcemia.

#### **Key Point:** Hypomagnesemia causes functional, reversible parathyroid hypofunction and must be excluded before a low or inappropriately normal parathyroid level is attributed to hypoparathyroidism.

The most appropriate test to perform next is measurement of magnesium. Hypocalcemia is likely the result of hypoparathyroidism, which is most commonly caused by surgical injury. Autoimmune, infiltrative (hemochromatosis, Wilson disease, granulomas), and radiation-related injury can also cause acquired hypoparathyroidism. Other, less common causes of hypocalcemia include poor calcium intake, activating mutations in the calcium-sensing receptor (CASR) gene, parathyroid hormone (PTH) resistance, increased phosphate binding in vascular space (rhabdomyolysis or tumor lysis syndrome), increased citrate chelation with large volume blood transfusions, sepsis, vitamin D deficiency, and hypomagnesemia. Low levels of magnesium (due to medications, alcohol abuse, or malnutrition) activate G-proteins that stimulate calcium-sensing receptors and decrease PTH secretion. Functional hypoparathyroidism due to hypomagnesemia must be excluded before other diagnoses are pursued. Hypomagnesemia to the extent required to cause hypoparathyroidism is most commonly due to medications impairing renal handling of magnesium including platinum-based chemotherapeutic agents. Prompt resolution of hypocalcemia following correction of hypomagnesemia confirms the diagnosis.
Measurement of serum bicarbonate would allow assessment of acid-base derangements. Acute respiratory alkalosis causes transient symptomatic hypocalcemia due to a rapid increase in the fraction of intravascular calcium bound to albumin. However, changes in blood pH due to metabolic alkalosis are relatively small and gradual, allowing prevention of hypocalcemia by an increase in parathyroid hormone. This patient has a more compelling reason for persistent hypocalcemia, and measurement of serum bicarbonate is not necessary.
Approximately 40% to 45% of the calcium in serum is bound to protein, principally albumin, although the physiologically active form of calcium is in an ionized (or free) state. In most patients with relatively normal serum albumin levels, the total calcium usually accurately reflects the ionized calcium fraction. In this case, the patient's albumin level is normal and the patient's symptoms correspond to the measured calcium level, therefore measurement of ionized calcium is not needed.
Given phosphorus homeostasis and calcium homeostasis are closely linked, changes in serum phosphorus concentration should be routinely explored when evaluating hypocalcemia. Even so, hyperparathyroidism rather than hypoparathyroidism would be present if the primary cause of hypocalcemia was due to hyperphosphatemia.

**Bibliography**

Brandi ML, Bilezikian JP, Shoback D, Bouillon R, Clarke BL, Thakker RV, Khan AA, Potts JT Jr. Management of hypoparathyroidism: summary statement and guidelines. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2016;101:2273-83. PMID: 26943719 doi:10.1210/jc.2015-3907

This content was last updated in August 2018.