
### Correct Answer: A) Alkaline phosphatase measurement 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate Paget disease of bone.

#### **Key Point:** Serum alkaline phosphatase, a marker of increased bone turnover, should be measured after radiographic diagnosis of Paget disease of bone.

The laboratory results and findings on radiographs are most consistent with Paget disease of bone. Measurement of serum total alkaline phosphatase is the next step after radiographic diagnosis and delineation of which bones are affected. It reflects the metabolic activity of Paget disease of bone at diagnosis and is used in follow-up evaluation whether treatment is given or not. Occasionally, total alkaline phosphatase may be normal in newly diagnosed patients with radiographic and radionuclide bone scan evidence of Paget disease. This quiescent or “burnt-out” stage of the disease does not require treatment.
Many patients with Paget disease are older and may have risk factors for osteoporosis. These two conditions, however, are unrelated, have different treatment endpoints, and different bisphosphonate dosing. If bone mineral density were to be ordered, it would be for reasons independent of the evaluation and treatment of Paget disease.
CT imaging of bones provides greater resolution and is superior to conventional radiographs in detecting and characterizing some metabolic bone disorders. With the exception of clarifying the extent of basilar skull involvement and risk for cranial nerve impingement, clinically relevant Paget disease is readily detected and diagnosed by conventional radiographs and radionuclide bone scans.
Bisphosphonates, particularly intravenous zoledronic acid, are highly effective, often requiring a single dose to normalize alkaline phosphatase for several years in patients with Paget disease. Given the risk for spinal cord compression or compression fracture, involvement of T7 with Paget disease would be an indication for treatment unless the disease were metabolically inactive. Therefore, zoledronic acid would not be given prior to assessment of serum total alkaline phosphatase.

**Bibliography**

Singer FR, Bone HG 3rd, Hosking DJ, Lyles KW, Murad MH, Reid IR, et al; Endocrine Society. Paget's disease of bone: an Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014;99:4408-22. PMID: 25406796 doi:10.1210/jc.2014-2910

This content was last updated in August 2018.