
### Correct Answer: C) Metformin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat type 2 diabetes mellitus in a patient with chronic kidney disease.

#### **Key Point:** Metformin is considered to be safe in those with an estimate glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) greater than 45 mL/minute/1.73 m2 and is contraindicated in those with an eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2.

The most appropriate treatment of this patient's diabetes mellitus is to initiate metformin. This patient's hemoglobin A1c is above goal despite lifestyle modifications, and his treatment plan should be intensified. The first-line therapy recommended by the American Diabetes Association in conjunction with lifestyle modifications for treatment of type 2 diabetes is metformin. Previously, metformin use was contraindicated at serum creatinine levels of 1.4 mg/dL (123.8 µmol/L) or higher in women and 1.5 mg/dL (132.6 µmol/L) or higher in men. However, in a recent update the FDA concluded that metformin is considered to be safe in those with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) greater than 45 mL/min/1.73 m2 and is contraindicated in those with an eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2. The FDA recommends not initiating metformin for patients with eGFR greater than 30 mL/min/1.73 m2 to less than 45 mL/min/1.73 m2, or alternately, initiating metformin at a reduced dose (50%) with frequent monitoring of kidney function (every 3 months). The patient qualifies metformin therapy and frequent monitoring with his current kidney function.
Empagliflozin, a sodium-glucose transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitor, is a second-line agent after metformin initiation. In addition, SGLT2 inhibitors may cause hypotension due to intravascular volume depletion, especially in patients with kidney impairment, and acute kidney injury has been reported with its use. The FDA advises that risk factors for acute kidney injury (hypovolemia, chronic kidney disease, heart failure, and use of diuretics, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, or NSAIDs) be considered before initiating this class of drugs.
The sulfonylurea, glipizide, is a second-line agent after metformin initiation. Glipizide could be considered as part of dual therapy if the glycemic goal is not reached with metformin. While sulfonylureas are the least expensive oral agent to add to metformin, they are associated with an increased risk for hypoglycemia as well as weight gain as compared with other potential combination therapies.
Saxagliptin, a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor, is a second-line agent after metformin initiation. Saxagliptin could be considered as part of dual therapy if the glycemic goal is not reached with metformin. However, the FDA has warned that the DPP-4 inhibitors saxagliptin and alogliptin may increase the risk for heart failure, especially in patients who already have heart or kidney disease.

**Bibliography**

Barry MJ, Humphrey LL, Qaseem A. Oral pharmacologic treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Ann Intern Med. 2017;167:75-76. PMID: 28672387

This content was last updated in August 2018.