
### Correct Answer: D) Radioactive iodine (131I) therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat toxic adenoma with radioactive iodine.

#### **Key Point:** First-line therapy for toxic adenoma is radioactive iodine (131I) therapy or surgery.

The most appropriate management is radioactive iodine (131I) therapy. The patient's examination findings and thyroid scintigraphy results are consistent with a diagnosis of toxic adenoma. Toxic adenoma and multinodular goiter are the second most common cause of hyperthyroidism overall and are most frequently seen in older adults. These autonomously functioning nodules synthesize and secrete thyroid hormones independent of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) stimulation as a result of activating mutations of the TSH receptor or Gsα. They are usually large and can be easily palpated on examination. First-line treatment options include radioactive iodine therapy or surgery. Radioactive iodine is the most commonly used first-line treatment. The radioisotope 131I emits both gamma and beta radiation. Gamma radiation can be detected by the camera to determine radioactive iodine uptake and create an image of the thyroid gland during thyroid scintigraphy, whereas beta radiation yields the therapeutic effect by triggering thyroid follicular cell death. If a patient has a particularly large goiter with compressive symptoms or if there is concern for malignancy, surgery is recommended as first-line therapy. Finally, guidelines recommend that thyroid sonography with survey of the cervical lymph nodes should be performed in all patients with known or suspected thyroid nodules. This includes the subset of patients with low serum TSH levels who have undergone radionuclide thyroid scintigraphy suggesting nodularity, to evaluate both the presence of nodules concordant with the hyperfunctioning areas on the scan, which do not require fine-needle aspiration biopsy, as well as other nonfunctioning nodules that meet sonographic criteria for fine-needle aspiration biopsy.
Autonomous nodules are associated with a very low risk of malignancy (<1%), and fine-needle aspiration biopsy is not indicated. If biopsy is performed, it frequently yields indeterminate cytology results, such as suspicion for follicular neoplasm, and generates inappropriate concern and unnecessary recommendations for follow-up examinations and biopsies.
Increasing the atenolol dosage and prescribing methimazole are also not the best management options. While β-blockers ameliorate adrenergic symptoms, they do not address the underlying cause. This patient has a normal heart rate and blood pressure on her current dose of atenolol, so increasing this further is not indicated.
Antithyroid drugs (methimazole) are not first line for managing hyperthyroidism because spontaneous remission does not occur and treatment would have to be continued indefinitely.

**Bibliography**

Haugen BR, Alexander EK, Bible KC, Doherty GM, Mandel SJ, Nikiforov YE, Pacini F, Randolph GW, Sawka AM, Schlumberger M, Schuff KG, Sherman SI, Sosa JA, Steward DL, Tuttle RM, Wartofsky L. 2015 American Thyroid Association Management Guidelines for Adult Patients with Thyroid Nodules and Differentiated Thyroid Cancer: The American Thyroid Association Guidelines Task Force on Thyroid Nodules and Differentiated Thyroid Cancer. Thyroid. 2016;26:1-133. PMID: 26462967 doi:10.1089/thy.2015.0020

This content was last updated in October 2020.