
### Correct Answer: A) Comprehensive foot examination and dilated eye examination 

**Educational Objective:** Screen for neuropathy and retinopathy in type 2 diabetes mellitus.

#### **Key Point:** Screening for dyslipidemia, hypertension, a dilated eye examination, spot urine albumin-creatinine ratio, and a comprehensive foot examination should be performed at the time of diagnosis of type 2 diabetes.

This patient requires a comprehensive foot examination and dilated eye examination. Patients with diabetes mellitus require monitoring for complications. A thorough foot examination should be done annually in patients with type 2 diabetes. Although this patient had an unremarkable visual foot inspection, he has not yet had a comprehensive foot examination, which is indicated at the time of diagnosis of type 2 diabetes and then annually thereafter. A comprehensive foot examination includes inspection of the skin, assessment of foot deformities, neurologic assessment (10-g monofilament testing with at least one other nerve assessment—pinprick, temperature, vibration, or ankle reflexes), and vascular assessment including pulses in the legs and feet. In patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus, a dilated comprehensive eye examination 5 years after diagnosis is appropriate; however, in patients with type 2 diabetes, a dilated comprehensive eye examination is indicated at time of diagnosis.
Prediabetes and diabetes can be diagnosed based on the elevated results from one of the following screening tests repeated on two separate occasions: fasting plasma glucose, 2-hour postprandial glucose during an oral glucose tolerance test, or hemoglobin A1c. This patient has two abnormal hemoglobin A1c measurements and additional testing with a fasting plasma glucose test and oral glucose tolerance test for the purposes of diagnosis is not warranted.
Although long-term use of metformin may be associated with vitamin B12 deficiency and periodic measurement of vitamin B12 levels should be considered in metformin treatment patients, B12 and folate measurements are not recommended at time of initiation of metformin therapy.
Annual screening for albuminuria in patients with type 2 diabetes should be undertaken starting at the time of diagnosis; this is done on a random spot urine sample as planned in this patient, not a 24-hour urine collection for protein and creatinine.

**Bibliography**

American Diabetes Association. 10. Microvascular complications and foot care: Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes-2018. Diabetes Care. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S105-S118. PMID: 29222381 doi:10.2337/dc18-S010

This content was last updated in August 2018.