
### Correct Answer: B) Reevaluate in 6 months 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient with asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with primary hyperparathyroidism who do not undergo surgery require monitoring of serum calcium and creatinine every 6 to 12 months and bone mineral density of the lumbar spine, hip, and distal radius every 2 years.

The most appropriate management for this patient is to reassess the patient in 6 to 12 months. Guideline-recommended indications for parathyroidectomy include increase in serum calcium level ≥1 mg/dL (0.25 mmol/L) above upper limit of normal; creatinine clearance <60 mL/min, 24-hour urine calcium >400 mg/day (>10 mmol/day), or increased stone risk by biochemical stone risk analysis; presence of nephrolithiasis or nephrocalcinosis by radiograph, ultrasound, or CT; T-score (on DEXA scan) of less than or equal to −2.5 at any site or evidence of vertebral fracture; and age younger than 50 years. Parathyroidectomy is also indicated in patients in whom medical surveillance is neither desired nor possible, and those with complications of hyperparathyroidism including significant bone, kidney, gastrointestinal, or neuromuscular symptoms. Patients without indications for parathyroidectomy require periodic reassessment that includes serum calcium and creatinine every 6 to 12 months and bone mineral density of the lumbar spine, hip, and distal radius every 2 years.
Although imaging tests such as parathyroid sestamibi scan may be performed as part of evaluation of primary hyperparathyroidism, it is most appropriate once surgery is indicated. The results of imaging do not influence the management of nonsurgical patients.
Primary hyperparathyroidism is associated with increased bone turnover and decreased bone strength. Although alendronate suppresses bone resorption and improves bone mineral density at the lumbar spine in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism, it has not been shown to reduce fracture risk or to reduce serum calcium levels. Patients at high risk of fracture (T-score ≤−2.5 and/or prevalent fragility fracture) at presentation or during monitoring should undergo parathyroidectomy.
Cinacalcet is indicated to treat symptomatic, severe hypercalcemia in adults with primary hyperparathyroidism for whom parathyroidectomy cannot be performed. Although it may be used chronically, cinacalcet is more commonly used until surgery is feasible.

**Bibliography**

Bilezikian JP, Brandi ML, Eastell R, Silverberg SJ, Udelsman R, Marcocci C, et al. Guidelines for the management of asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism: summary statement from the Fourth International Workshop. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014;99:3561-9. PMID: 25162665 doi:10.1210/jc.2014-1413

This content was last updated in August 2018.