
### Correct Answer: E) Repeat serum TSH testing in 2 months 

**Educational Objective:** Manage subclinical hypothyroidism.

#### **Key Point:** Subclinical hypothyroidism is characterized by a serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level above the upper limit of the reference range and normal free thyroxine (T4) level; before making this diagnosis, however, transient elevation of serum TSH should be ruled out by repeating the measurement of TSH in 2 to 3 months.

This patient has subclinical hypothyroidism, and the most appropriate management is to repeat serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) testing in 2 months. Free thyroxine (T4) and thyroid peroxidase antibodies could also be measured at that time. Subclinical hypothyroidism is an early form of primary hypothyroidism affecting up to 10% of the population and is characterized by a serum TSH level above the upper limit of the reference range and normal free T4 level. Before making this diagnosis, however, transient elevation of serum TSH levels should be ruled out by repeating the measurement of TSH in 2 to 3 months.
Thyroid peroxidase (TPO) antibodies are frequently seen in the setting of Hashimoto thyroiditis, the most common cause of hypothyroidism in the United States. TPO antibody positivity would support a diagnosis of primary hypothyroidism, predict risk of progression to overt hypothyroidism, and may impact treatment decisions accordingly. However, the most appropriate next step in the management of this patient is to confirm the diagnosis of subclinical hypothyroidism by documenting persistent serum TSH elevation.
Thyrotropin receptor antibodies would be more consistent with Graves disease and testing for these antibodies would not be appropriate in this setting.
Measurement of serum triiodothyronine (T3) in patients with known or suspected primary hypothyroidism is generally not indicated. Elevation of serum TSH is the earliest biochemical change observed in the setting of primary hypothyroidism. Reductions in serum T3 are not usually seen until after free T4 levels are low. Measuring serum T3 has little to no impact on diagnosis or management decisions.
Guidelines differ regarding when to treat subclinical hypothyroidism (elevated serum TSH level with free T4 or total T4 levels within the reference range). For most adults with subclinical hypothyroidism, thyroid hormone replacement will result in no clinical benefits and may have little or no effect on cardiovascular events or mortality. However, treatment should be provided to women who are trying to become pregnant or patients with a TSH level greater than 20 µU/mL (20 mU/L), and treatment may be reasonable for patients with severe symptoms or adults aged 30 years or younger. Guidelines stress that clinicians make individualized, patient-specific decisions about treatment. However, the most appropriate next step is to reassess the patient's TSH level and symptoms before making treatment decisions.

**Bibliography**

Peeters RP. Subclinical hypothyroidism. N Engl J Med. 2017 Jun 29;376(26):2556-2565. PMID: 28657873 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp1611144

This content was last updated in March 2019.