
### Correct Answer: A) Adrenal vein sampling 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose the cause of primary aldosteronism.

#### **Key Point:** Most patients with biochemically confirmed primary aldosteronism should undergo adrenal vein sampling to confirm the source of the hyperaldosteronism.

The next step in this patient's management is adrenal vein sampling. Once the diagnosis of primary aldosteronism has been confirmed biochemically, radiographic localization with abdominal CT is indicated. CT is recommended over MRI in most cases due to similar efficacy and lower cost. Adrenal hyperplasia and adenomas secreting excess aldosterone, however, may not always be visualized. Adrenal vein sampling is, therefore, needed in most patients to determine the source of aldosterone secretion when imaging is unrevealing and to confirm lateralization when imaging demonstrates an adrenal adenoma, such as in this case. Adrenal vein sampling is especially important in older patients because of a higher frequency of nonfunctioning adrenal incidentalomas. Patients with an aldosterone-secreting adenoma are usually offered adrenalectomy, whereas those with primary aldosteronism due to bilateral adrenal hyperplasia are treated medically. Omission of adrenal vein sampling can lead to misdiagnosis in approximately 25% of cases, and subsequent unnecessary adrenalectomy, or medical therapy when adrenalectomy could be offered. Right adrenalectomy should not be performed in this patient without further confirmation of the source of primary aldosteronism.
Aldosterone likely exerts direct toxic effects on cardiac cells as evidenced by a higher prevalence of left ventricular hypertrophy and decreased left ventricular function when compared with matched control patients with similar levels of hypertension. These deleterious effects are likely mediated by mineralocorticoid receptors in the heart, coronary arteries, aorta, and other blood vessels. Increasing this patient's losartan or metoprolol dose may lead to better control of his hypertension, but neither of these medications blocks the aldosterone receptor. Therefore, the patient would still be subject to the deleterious effects of excess stimulation of aldosterone receptors, which may lead to cardiac disease.

**Bibliography**

Rossi GP, Auchus RJ, Brown M, Lenders JW, Naruse M, Plouin PF, et al. An expert consensus statement on use of adrenal vein sampling for the subtyping of primary aldosteronism. Hypertension. 2014;63:151-60. PMID: 24218436 doi:10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.113.02097

This content was last updated in August 2018.