
### Correct Answer: D) Ultrasound of the neck 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a thyroid nodule with neck ultrasonography.

#### **Key Point:** Ultrasound can confirm the presence of thyroid nodules palpated on examination and based on findings can help to determine if fine-needle aspiration is needed to assess for malignancy.

The most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next is ultrasound of the neck. Ultrasound can confirm the presence of thyroid nodules palpated on examination and those detected on other imaging studies. Ultrasound must be performed prior to fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) to confirm the presence of a nodule, determine that biopsy is indicated, ensure that there are no additional nonpalpable nodules that warrant FNAB, and assess the cervical lymph nodes. In patients with solitary palpable nodules, 15% will have no corresponding nodule on ultrasound, and a similar proportion will have an additional nodule measuring 1 cm or larger.
Performing a CT scan of the neck is a more costly test, exposes the patient to unnecessary radiation, and is inferior to ultrasound at assessing the thyroid gland.
FNAB should not be performed prior to thyroid/neck ultrasound. Whether or not FNAB is indicated depends on the size and sonographic appearance of the nodule, clinical risk factors for malignancy, and presence of pathologic lymph nodes. Nodules that are predominantly cystic or posteriorly located within the thyroid gland are prone to sampling error.
Measurement of serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) is also part of the initial evaluation of a thyroid nodule. The purpose of measuring TSH is to evaluate for the presence of autonomously functioning or “hot” nodules, which account for 5% to 10% of palpable thyroid nodules. Autonomous nodules may cause hyperthyroidism and are associated with a very low risk of malignancy. Autonomous nodules can be confirmed by performing a thyroid uptake and scan. They concentrate radioactive iodine to a greater extent than normal thyroid tissue, which shows absent or diminished uptake. The TSH in this patient is normal, which does not support a diagnosis of an autonomously functioning thyroid nodule; therefore performing a thyroid uptake and 131I scan is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Haugen BR, Alexander EK, Bible KC, Doherty GM, Mandel SJ, Nikiforov YE, et al. 2015 American Thyroid Association Management Guidelines for Adult Patients with Thyroid Nodules and Differentiated Thyroid Cancer: The American Thyroid Association Guidelines Task Force on Thyroid Nodules and Differentiated Thyroid Cancer. Thyroid. 2016;26:1-133. PMID: 26462967 doi:10.1089/thy.2015.0020

This content was last updated in August 2018.