
### Correct Answer: B) Measure free thyroxine (T4) level 

**Educational Objective:** Manage secondary hypothyroidism.

#### **Key Point:** Serum thyroid-stimulating hormone level cannot be used to monitor and assess for adequacy of thyroid hormone replacement dosing in secondary hypothyroidism; the levothyroxine dose is adjusted based on free thyroxine (T4) levels with the goal of obtaining a value within the upper half of the normal reference range.

The most appropriate next step in management is measurement of the free thyroxine (T4) level. Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) deficiency leads to secondary or central hypothyroidism. Secondary hypothyroidism symptoms are clinically identical to primary hypothyroidism symptoms. Secondary hypothyroidism is diagnosed by demonstrating a simultaneously inappropriately normal or low TSH and low T4 (free or total). Patients are treated with levothyroxine replacement in the same manner as primary hypothyroidism; however, the serum TSH cannot be used to monitor and assess for adequacy of thyroid hormone replacement dosing. Instead, the levothyroxine dose is adjusted based on free T4 levels with the goal of obtaining a value within the normal reference range. The patient's recent symptoms of fatigue and weight gain may be due to hypothyroidism resulting from impaired absorption of levothyroxine after recently starting a calcium supplement. A low T4 level will confirm the diagnosis. In general the therapeutic goal is to keep the free T4 in the upper half of the normal range. To improve gastrointestinal absorption, levothyroxine should be taken on an empty stomach, 1 hour before or 3 hours after ingestion of food. Medications that would interfere with absorption, such as calcium- or iron-containing supplements should be separated by 4 hours.
Increasing the levothyroxine would not be appropriate without first documenting the presence of hypothyroidism by measuring the T4 level. In addition, the preferred initial therapy may simply be to discontinue the calcium, if not warranted, or to separate ingestion of calcium and levothyroxine by at least 2 to 3 hours.
The patient has no symptoms suggestive of a pituitary mass effect or other indication to recommend pituitary imaging.

**Bibliography**

Beck-Peccoz P, Rodari G, Giavoli C, Lania A. Central hypothyroidism - a neglected thyroid disorder. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2017;13:588-598. Epub 2017 May 26. PMID: 28549061 doi:10.1038/nrendo.2017.47

This content was last updated in August 2018.