
### Correct Answer: A) Decrease all insulin doses 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hypoglycemic unawareness.

#### **Key Point:** Treatment for hypoglycemic unawareness is to reduce the insulin dose and avoid hypoglycemia in order to provide the body an opportunity to restore the ability to detect hypoglycemia.

The most appropriate treatment of this patient's diabetes is to decrease all insulin doses. He is having hypoglycemia at least once per week with some of these events qualifying as clinically significant per the American Diabetes Association with glucose values less than 54 mg/dL (3.0 mmol/L). He is developing hypoglycemia unawareness as evidenced by his inability to detect decreases in his blood glucose until it is less than 40 mg/dL (2.2 mmol/L). This is secondary to an ineffective response of the autonomic system to hypoglycemia, in addition to an inadequate release of counterregulatory hormones to correct hypoglycemia. Blood glucose targets should be relaxed, and insulin dosing should be decreased in the setting of hypoglycemia unawareness. Avoidance of hypoglycemia for several weeks may restore the ability to detect hypoglycemia in some patients. Since the hypoglycemia is intermittent and without a pattern for this patient, all insulin doses should be decreased to avoid hypoglycemia.
The patient has fasting hyperglycemia and a hemoglobin A1c level above goal. Increasing the dose of his glargine insulin could lower his glucose values, but it may potentially exacerbate his hypoglycemia.
Empagliflozin could improve this patient's hyperglycemia while also improving his blood pressure control and inducing weight loss; however, it may also exacerbate the hypoglycemia when used in conjunction with insulin.
Metformin could improve hyperglycemia for this patient, particularly fasting hyperglycemia secondary to hepatic gluconeogenesis. Given the clinically significant hypoglycemia experienced by this patient, that should be addressed first by relaxing his glycemic goals.

**Bibliography**

American Diabetes Association. 6. Glycemic targets: Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes-2018. Diabetes Care. 2018;41(Suppl 1):S55-S64. PMID: 29222377 doi:10.2337/dc18-S006

This content was last updated in August 2018.