
### Correct Answer: A) Lifestyle counseling for osteoporosis prevention 

**Educational Objective:** Avoid inappropriate screening for osteoporosis.

#### **Key Point:** Screening for osteoporosis in premenopausal women is not indicated in the absence of risk factors.

The most appropriate management for this patient is lifestyle counseling for osteoporosis prevention. Lifestyle measures include adequate calcium and vitamin D, exercise, smoking cessation, counseling on fall prevention, and avoidance of heavy alcohol use.
Most guidelines recommend screening for osteoporosis with dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan in women 65 years of age and older. Screening of younger women may be indicated if one or more risk factors for osteoporosis are present. In premenopausal women without risk factors, assessment of bone mineral density (BMD) for fracture risk is not advised or validated. However, if testing is done in an otherwise healthy person, such as this patient, results that are below age- and gender-matched averages (Z-score <0) generally do not require further evaluation or serial monitoring. The discovery of below average BMD could lead to a discussion regarding osteoporosis prevention with lifestyle modification and assessment of BMD after menopause, but prior to age 65, when screening might otherwise occur.
Testing for secondary causes of bone loss is unnecessary when BMD is normal for age. Below average BMD in adults may in fact represent below average peak bone mass rather than loss of bone.
Although BMD measured by quantitative heel ultrasound is predictive of osteoporotic fracture in older women and men, BMD measurement by DEXA scan remains the gold standard for diagnosis of osteoporosis and fracture risk assessment. Therefore, abnormal ultrasound results in these populations should be confirmed by DEXA scan. Even so, a DEXA scan should not be performed in this patient given that screening is not indicated and the heel ultrasound result is within the normal range.

**Bibliography**

Cosman F, de Beur SJ, LeBoff MS, Lewiecki EM, Tanner B, Randall S, et al; National Osteoporosis Foundation. Clinician's guide to prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. Osteoporos Int. 2014;25:2359-81. PMID: 25182228 doi:10.1007/s00198-014-2794-2

This content was last updated in August 2018.