
### Correct Answer: D) Stop methimazole and obtain complete blood count with differential 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose methimazole-induced agranulocytosis.

#### **Key Point:** Antithyroid drug-related agranulocytosis affects between one in 300 and one in 500 patients taking therapy and may present with fever and sore throat; initial management includes stopping the drug and assessment of the neutrophil count.

The most appropriate management is to stop methimazole and order a complete blood count with differential. The patient has been receiving methimazole for treatment of Graves hyperthyroidism over the past 3 months. She has both a sore throat and a fever, which can be seen in patients with methimazole-induced agranulocytosis. Agranulocytosis affects between one in 300 and one in 500 patients taking antithyroid drug therapy. Agranulocytosis from methimazole usually occurs within the first several months of initiating therapy but generally is not seen with doses below 20 mg per day. Suspected agranulocytosis should be managed with cessation of the offending drug and assessment of the patient's neutrophil count. An absolute neutrophil count below 500/µL (0.5 × 109/L) confirms the diagnosis. Management of agranulocytosis may include hospitalization, broad-spectrum antibiotics, and hematopoietic growth factor therapy. Patients should be counseled regarding agranulocytosis as a potential side effect at the initiation of therapy and instructed to contact the prescribing physician immediately with occurrence of any suggestive symptoms.
Diagnosis and treatment of patients with Group A streptococcus (GAS) pharyngitis has traditionally been aided by the four-point Centor criteria: (1) fever, (2) absence of cough, (3) tonsillar exudates, and (4) tender anterior cervical lymphadenopathy. The Centor criteria have a low positive predictive value for GAS infection; according to the Infectious Disease Society of America, these criteria may be used to determine which patients have a low likelihood of GAS pharyngitis and require no further testing. No additional testing or treatment is needed for patients who meet fewer than three criteria. Patients who meet three or more criteria should have a confirmatory test (either a rapid antigen detection test for GAS or throat culture). Penicillin or amoxicillin is first-line treatment for GAS pharyngitis. However, the clinical situation of most immediate concern is the possibility of methimazole-induced agranulocytosis, a potentially fatal condition. The most appropriate management is to stop the drug and measure the neutrophil count.

**Bibliography**

Vicente N, Cardoso L, Barros L, Carrilho F. Antithyroid drug-induced agranulocytosis: state of the art on diagnosis and management. Drugs R D. 2017;17:91-96. PMID: 28105610 doi:10.1007/s40268-017-0172-1

This content was last updated in August 2018.