
### Correct Answer: A) Administer intravenous hydrocortisone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat myxedema coma.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with myxedema coma, intravenous hydrocortisone should be administered before thyroid hormones to treat possible adrenal insufficiency.

The most appropriate next step in the management of this patient is to administer intravenous hydrocortisone. This patient has myxedema coma, which has a very high mortality rate if there is a delay in treatment. Myxedema coma is more common in elderly women; it may occur in those with a history of hypothyroidism or no antecedent illness. Myocardial infarction, infection, stroke, trauma, and gastrointestinal bleeding are common precipitating events. Mental status changes and hypothermia are the most common clinical manifestations. Ventilatory drive is decreased, resulting in hypoxemia and hypercapnia. Additional signs include bradycardia, hypoglycemia, hyponatremia, and/or hypotension. This patient's condition was likely precipitated by recent nonadherence with her prescribed medications. The serum cortisol level should be checked as soon as possible to evaluate for concomitant adrenal insufficiency prior to initiation of thyroid hormone replacement. While awaiting the results of the serum cortisol measurement, it is advisable to empirically initiate high-dose hydrocortisone. This therapy may be discontinued if the serum cortisol level is found to be normal or high. In patients with adrenal insufficiency, administering thyroid hormone prior to glucocorticoids could precipitate an adrenal crisis by augmenting cortisol metabolism.
Following the administration of glucocorticoids, intravenous thyroid hormone replacement should be initiated. Treatment with levothyroxine is universally recommended. Although controversial, some experts suggest administering liothyronine concomitantly. Once clinically improved, the patient can be transitioned to oral levothyroxine.
Hypotension can generally be resolved over a matter of hours with the administration of fluids and treatment of the hypothyroidism. Persistent hypotension can be treated with a vasopressor drug. The initiation of norepinephrine is premature in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Ono Y, Ono S, Yasunaga H, Matsui H, Fushimi K, Tanaka Y. Clinical characteristics and outcomes of myxedema coma: analysis of a national inpatient database in Japan. J Epidemiol. 2017 Mar;27(3):117-122. Epub 2017 Jan 5. PMID: 28142035.

This content was last updated in August 2018.