
### Correct Answer: D) No additional treatment 

**Educational Objective:** Treat low-risk papillary thyroid cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Lobectomy is the treatment of choice for low-risk papillary thyroid cancer that is confined to the thyroid gland, completely resected at surgery, does not demonstrate aggressive pathologic features (lymphovascular invasion or tall cell variant), and has not metastasized.

No additional treatment is needed. The incidence of thyroid cancer has increased over the last four decades with much of this change attributable to a rise in the diagnosis of small noninvasive papillary thyroid carcinomas. The incidence of papillary microcarcinoma (<1 cm) is 5% to 15% in the United States based on autopsy series. Low-risk papillary thyroid cancer is that which is confined to the thyroid gland, completely resected at surgery, does not demonstrate aggressive pathologic features (lymphovascular invasion or tall cell variant), and has not metastasized. The risk of disease-related death is less than 1%, and the risk of structural disease recurrence is 1% to 2% for low-risk unifocal papillary microcarcinomas. Patients receiving either lobectomy or thyroidectomy have similarly excellent outcomes. Therefore, resection of the remaining thyroid lobe would not be required for this patient.
Suppression of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) with levothyroxine therapy may also be used to improve morbidity and reduce mortality, particularly in patients with persistent disease or distant metastases. The necessary degree of TSH suppression varies according to the risk of cancer progression and comorbidities of the patient. Patients with persistent disease typically require lowering of their TSH level to less than 0.1 μU/mL (0.1 mU/L), whereas patients who are disease-free with a low risk of recurrence should maintain a TSH level of 0.3 to 2.0 μU/mL (0.3-2.0 mU/L). This is typically accomplished without the use of thyroxine suppressive therapy.
Patients with distant metastases have improved survival with successful radioiodine therapy, whereas administration of radioactive iodine may decrease the likelihood of recurrent disease in those patients with nodal metastases. Radioactive iodine (131I) therapy offers this patient no appreciable benefit since her prognosis is already excellent and such therapy would result in substantial unnecessary costs and radiation exposure.

**Bibliography**

Vaccarella S, Franceschi S, Bray F, Wild CP, Plummer M, Dal Maso L. Worldwide thyroid-cancer epidemic? The increasing impact of overdiagnosis. N Engl J Med. 2016 Aug 18;375(7):614-7. PMID: 27532827 doi:10.1056/NEJMp1604412

This content was last updated in August 2018.