
### Correct Answer: B) Urine and serum osmolality 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose diabetes insipidus.

#### **Key Point:** A low urine osmolality in the setting of a high serum osmolality and high serum sodium in a patient with polyuria is diagnostic of diabetes insipidus.

The most appropriate diagnostic test for this patient is urine and serum osmolality measurement. Central diabetes insipidus (DI) results from inadequate production of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) by the posterior pituitary gland. In the presence of ADH, aquaporin water channels are inserted in the collecting tubules and allow water to be reabsorbed. In the absence of ADH, excessive water is excreted by the kidneys. Excretion of more than 3 liters of urine per day is considered polyuric. Frank hypernatremia is unusual because patients develop extreme thirst and polydipsia, and with free access to water, can maintain serum sodium in the high normal range. When patients do not drink enough to replace the water lost in the urine, due to poor or absent thirst drive or lack of free access to water, they develop hypernatremia. A low urine osmolality in the setting of a high serum osmolality and high serum sodium in a patient with polyuria is diagnostic of DI. Patients with craniopharyngiomas are at higher risk of developing central DI.
Desmopressin challenge is not appropriate at this time. Prior to initiating desmopressin, one must confirm the diagnosis of DI by measuring urine and serum osmolality. Once confirmed, desmopressin can be administered and urine osmolality remeasured to assure that administration of desmopressin resulted in an increase in urine osmolality. After desmopressin is given, urine concentrates to more than 800 mOsm/kg in central DI, less than 300 mOsm/kg in nephrogenic DI, and between 300 and 800 mOsm/kg in partial DI.
Measurement of urine electrolytes is not helpful in the diagnosis of DI.
A water deprivation test should not be performed in this patient. He already has hypernatremia so further water deprivation could result in serious hypernatremia. In the setting of hypernatremia, a urine and serum osmolality are the best tests to confirm the diagnosis of DI. A water deprivation test can be pursued when the diagnosis is unclear. Urine osmolality above 800 mOsm/kg H2O is a normal response to water deprivation, indicating ADH production and peripheral effect are intact. A serum osmolality above 295 mOsm/kg with inappropriately hypotonic urine (urine osmolality-serum osmolality ratio <2) during fluid deprivation confirms DI.

**Bibliography**

Prete A, Corsello SM, Salvatori R. Current best practice in the management of patients after pituitary surgery. Ther Adv Endocrinol Metab. 2017;8:33-48. PMID: 28377801 doi:10.1177/2042018816687240

This content was last updated in August 2018.