
### Correct Answer: D) Initiate metformin 

**Educational Objective:** Manage early type 2 diabetes mellitus with metformin monotherapy.

#### **Key Point:** Metformin is first-line therapy for all patients with type 2 diabetes without contraindications.

The American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends a hemoglobin A1c goal of less than 6.5% to 7% in patients who are early in the disease course and with few comorbidities. This patient meets these criteria and should aim for tighter glycemic control than he is currently achieving with 3 months of lifestyle modifications alone. Pharmacologic therapy should now be added to his lifestyle modifications. The American College of Physicians recommends a hemoglobin A1c level between 7% and 8% in most patients with type 2 diabetes. More stringent targets may be appropriate for patients who have a long life expectancy (>15 years) and are interested in more intensive glycemic control with pharmacologic therapy despite the risk for harms, including but not limited to hypoglycemia, patient burden, and pharmacologic costs. The ADA and the American College of Physicians (ACP) recommend metformin as first-line therapy for all patients with type 2 diabetes without contraindications. This recommendation is based on data from multiple studies demonstrating the effectiveness and safety of metformin. In addition, metformin is inexpensive.
The patient has had a reduction in his weight and hemoglobin A1c with lifestyle modifications alone over a 3-month period. Despite this, he remains above his hemoglobin A1c goal of less than 6.5% to 7%. Therefore, continuing his current management protocol would not be appropriate. Achieving glucose goals early in the disease course can reduce the risk of developing microvascular and possibly macrovascular complications in the future. He will require the addition of pharmacologic agents at this time to reach his glycemic target.
Empagliflozin has the ability to improve glycemic control while also reducing blood pressure and weight. Empagliflozin is considered second-line therapy after metformin by ADA and ACP.
Liraglutide also has the ability to improve glycemic control while also reducing weight. There are studies also demonstrating a reduction in blood pressure with liraglutide use. Liraglutide is considered second-line therapy after metformin by the ADA and ACP.
If the patient does not achieve his hemoglobin A1c target after 3 months of lifestyle modifications and metformin, dual therapy with metformin and liraglutide or metformin and empagliflozin could be considered.

**Bibliography**

Barry MJ, Humphrey LL, Qaseem A. Oral pharmacologic treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Ann Intern Med. 2017;167:75-76. PMID: 28672387

This content was last updated in August 2018.