
### Correct Answer: B) Improve glycemic control 

**Educational Objective:** Reduce the risk of diabetic neuropathy in a patient with type 1 diabetes mellitus.

#### **Key Point:** Enhanced glucose control significantly prevents the development of clinical neuropathy and reduces nerve conduction and vibration threshold abnormalities in type 1 diabetes mellitus.

According to high-quality evidence, enhanced glucose control significantly prevents the development of clinical neuropathy and reduces nerve conduction and vibration threshold abnormalities in type 1 diabetes mellitus. Glycemic control can delay progression of neuropathy in type 2 diabetes. Other than glucose control, no other preventive strategies are available for diabetic neuropathy. Hemoglobin A1c goals in patients with diabetes should be individually tailored taking into account the demonstrated benefits with regard to prevention and delay in microvascular complications with the risk of hypoglycemia. A reasonable goal of therapy might be a hemoglobin A1c value less than or equal to 7% for most patients, with higher targets for older adult patients and those with comorbidities or a limited life expectancy and more stringent control for those patients with type 1 diabetes and during pregnancy.
The American Diabetes Association advocates for a target systolic blood pressure between 125 and 130 mm Hg in select patients (young, long life expectancy, increased risk of stroke), if this can be accomplished safely. While this patient will benefit from improved blood pressure control by reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease, it will have no impact on her risk for the development of diabetic neuropathy.
While lifestyle intervention to improve the lipid profile should be undertaken in all patients with diabetes, for patients without cardiovascular disease and under age 40 years, statin therapy should be considered only in those with multiple cardiovascular disease risk factors; the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association risk calculator can determine the 10-year atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk to guide therapeutic management. Improved lipid control, while indicated and beneficial for the prevention of cardiovascular disease, does not assist in the prevention of diabetic neuropathy.
Although pregabalin is indicated to treat painful diabetic neuropathy, it does not prevent diabetic neuropathy.
Although weight loss should be discussed as part of a therapeutic lifestyle plan, there is no data to suggest weight loss prevents the development of diabetic neuropathy.

**Bibliography**

Callaghan BC, Little AA, Feldman EL, Hughes RA. Enhanced glucose control for preventing and treating diabetic neuropathy. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012:CD007543. PMID: 22696371 doi:10.1002/14651858.CD007543.pub2

This content was last updated in August 2018.