
### Correct Answer: B) Decrease insulin drip rate and add intravenous dextrose 

**Educational Objective:** Manage diabetic ketoacidosis.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with diabetic ketoacidosis, intravenous insulin therapy should be continued until complete resolution of the anion gap acidosis; as acidosis improves, it may be necessary to reduce the insulin infusion rate and add intravenous dextrose to prevent hypoglycemia.

The most appropriate management for this patient is to decrease the insulin drip rate and add intravenous (IV) dextrose. This patient continues to have anion gap acidosis and should remain on IV insulin therapy to suppress ketogenesis until this resolves. His current blood glucose level below 200 to 250 mg/dL (11.1-13.9 mmol/L) increases his risk for hypoglycemia with continued IV insulin therapy. This risk can be mitigated by transitioning his IV fluids to 5% dextrose with 0.45% normal saline at 150 to 250 mL/h to maintain his glucose between 150 and 200 mg/dL (8.3-11.1 mmol/L) until his diabetic ketoacidosis resolves. Reducing the insulin drip rate to maintain his blood glucose between 150 and 200 mg/dL (8.3-11.1 mmol/L) will also decrease the risk of hypoglycemia while still suppressing ketogenesis.
If he continues at the current insulin drip rate or if he does not have the addition of IV dextrose, he has an increased risk of developing hypoglycemia now that his blood glucose is less than 200 mg/dL (11.1 mmol/L).
Insulin deficiency and urinary potassium losses induce shifts in potassium from the intracellular to extracellular compartments. This can result in low or normal serum potassium levels in the setting of depleted potassium stores. Potassium shifts back from the extracellular to intracellular compartments with resultant hypokalemia as insulin administration corrects the hyperglycemia, anion gap acidosis, and hyperosmolality associated with diabetic ketoacidosis. To avoid cardiac complications, serum potassium must be greater than 3.3 mEq/L (3.3. mmol/L) before initiating IV insulin. Once potassium is 3.3 mEq/L (3.3 mmol/L) or higher and IV insulin has been initiated, 20 to 30 mEq (20-30 mmol/L) of potassium chloride will usually need to be added to each liter of IV fluid to maintain a serum potassium level of 4.0 to 5.0 mEq/L (4.0-5.0 mmol/L). He is at risk of developing hypokalemia if his potassium supplementation is discontinued at this time.
Although subcutaneous insulin would provide insulin to suppress ketogenesis, the IV insulin drip provides greater flexibility in dose adjustments than subcutaneous insulin. Once the patient's anion gap acidosis has resolved, transitioning from the insulin drip to a subcutaneous insulin regimen should occur.

**Bibliography**

Fayfman M, Pasquel FJ, Umpierrez GE. Management of hyperglycemic crises: diabetic ketoacidosis and hyperglycemic hyperosmolar state. Med Clin North Am. 2017;101:587-606. [PMID:28372715] doi:10.1016/j.mcna.2016.12.011

This content was last updated in August 2018.