
### Correct Answer: C) Begin prednisone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat type-2 amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis.

#### **Key Point:** Type 2 amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis (destructive thyroiditis) can be treated with moderate- to high-dose prednisone that can be gradually tapered over 1 to 3 months.

The most appropriate initial management for this patient is to prescribe prednisone. Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic medication with high iodine content and prolonged half-life of approximately 40 days. Thyrotoxicosis affects 5% of patients taking amiodarone and can occur at any time during or up to 9 months after treatment. Type 1 (hyperthyroidism) amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis occurs in patients with underlying multinodular goiter or latent Graves disease and is associated with increased vascularity on color flow Doppler ultrasonography. Type 2 (destructive thyroiditis) usually affects those without thyroid disease and is not associated with increased vascularity on color flow Doppler. Mixed forms can also be seen and making the correct diagnosis can be difficult. The patient's clinical presentation is most consistent with type 2 amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis given the absence of structural thyroid disease (no nodules or goiter), absent thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) receptor antibody, and absent parenchymal flow seen on Doppler ultrasound. Moderate- to high-dose prednisone is an effective treatment that can be gradually tapered over 1 to 3 months.
Discontinuation of amiodarone would not yield any immediate clinical benefit due to its prolonged half-life elimination. The decision to discontinue amiodarone depends on the patient's cardiac status, availability of effective alternatives, and type of thyrotoxicosis, with treatment cessation being more important in type 1 than type 2.
Methimazole is most effective in treating type 1 (hyperthyroidism) amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis, which occurs in patients with Graves disease or thyroid nodules. Since this patient's presentation is most consistent with type 2 amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis (destructive thyroiditis), prednisone is the preferred treatment.
Performing thyroid scintigraphy with radioactive iodine uptake is not indicated. Amiodarone has a very high iodine content, which results in high serum iodine levels. This iodine competes with the radioactive isotope used for the test (123I or 131I) resulting in very low radioactive iodine uptake (<1%) in most patients. This test does not discriminate well between type 1 and 2 amiodarone-induced thyrotoxicosis and is not clinically useful.

**Bibliography**

Danzi S, Klein I. Amiodarone-induced thyroid dysfunction. J Intensive Care Med. 2015;30:179-85. Epub 2013 Sep 24. PMID: 24067547 doi:10.1177/0885066613503278

This content was last updated in August 2018.