
### Correct Answer: D) Pelvic ultrasound 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose the cause of rapid-onset hirsutism.

#### **Key Point:** An androgen-secreting ovarian tumor should be considered in patients with abrupt, rapidly progressive, or severe hyperandrogenism as well as in women with marked hyperandrogenemia (total testosterone &gt;150 ng/dL [5.2 nmol/L]).

A pelvic ultrasound is the most appropriate management for this patient. Although androgen-secreting ovarian tumors are rare, they should be considered in patients with abrupt, rapidly progressive, or severe hyperandrogenism as well as in women with marked hyperandrogenemia (total testosterone >150 ng/dL [5.2 nmol/L]). Given this patient's rapid onset of hirsutism coupled with significantly elevated total testosterone level, a pelvic ultrasound is the best next step in evaluation to assess for a possible ovarian tumor.
Adrenal vein sampling is a procedure used to confirm whether autonomous adrenal hormone production is unilateral or bilateral. It is most commonly performed in the evaluation of primary aldosteronism. Adrenal vein sampling is needed in most patients to determine the source of aldosterone secretion when imaging is unrevealing and to confirm lateralization when imaging demonstrates an adrenal adenoma. For this patient, adrenal CT is more appropriate to exclude an adrenal cortisol-secreting and/or androgen-secreting neoplasm and may be appropriate if the pelvic ultrasound is unrevealing. There is no indication for this procedure at this time in this patient.
Cushing syndrome (CS) results from elevated levels of cortisol. Clinical findings that are highly specific for CS include centripetal obesity, facial plethora, abnormal fat deposition in the supraclavicular or dorsocervical (“buffalo hump”) areas, and wide (>1 cm) violaceous striae. Evaluation for CS is most appropriate in patients who have specific signs and symptoms of CS, rather than in patients with diffuse obesity, those who have nonpathologic striae, or those who are having trouble losing weight because endogenous CS is such a rare condition with a costly evaluation algorithm. At least two first-line tests should be abnormal before the diagnosis is confirmed. Initial tests include the overnight low-dose dexamethasone suppression test, 24-hour urine free cortisol, and late-night salivary cortisol. Since the patient has none of the specific findings of CS, a 24-hour urine cortisol test is not indicated.
In addition to weight loss, combined hormonal oral contraceptives are first-line agents for treatment of polycystic ovary syndrome. Polycystic ovary syndrome is a diagnosis of exclusion; given this patient's rapid onset of hirsutism coupled with degree of her total testosterone elevation, an androgen-secreting tumor must be considered.

**Bibliography**

Mihailidis J, Dermesropian R, Taxel P, Luthra P, Grant-Kels JM. Endocrine evaluation of hirsutism. Int J Womens Dermatol. 2017;3:S6-S10. PMID: 28492032 doi:10.1016/j.ijwd.2017.02.007

This content was last updated in August 2018.