
### Correct Answer: D) Metabolic surgery referral 

**Educational Objective:** Treat type 2 diabetes mellitus with metabolic surgery in a patient with obesity.

#### **Key Point:** Metabolic surgery demonstrates greater improvements in glycemic control and cardiovascular risk factors compared with optimized medical therapy and lifestyle modifications.

This patient should be referred for metabolic surgery. The gastrointestinal tract plays an important role in glucose homeostasis and serves as an important physiologic target for improving glycemic control. Short- and mid-term data from randomized controlled trials of metabolic surgery demonstrated greater improvements in glycemic control and cardiovascular risk factors compared with optimized medical therapy and lifestyle modifications. Retrospective cohort studies and prospective observational studies suggest a reduction in cardiovascular deaths and lower incidence of cardiovascular events in patients undergoing metabolic surgery. Metabolic surgery should be recommended to patients with type 2 diabetes with class III obesity (BMI ≥40 [≥37.5 in Asian Americans]) independent of glycemic control and diabetes treatment regimen and to patients with type 2 diabetes with class II obesity (BMI 35.0-39.9 [32.5-37.4 in Asian Americans]) who fail to meet their glycemic goals despite optimizing medical therapies and lifestyle modifications. In addition, patients with class I obesity (BMI 30.0-34.9 [27.5-32.4 in Asian Americans]) who do not meet their glycemic goals despite optimizing medical therapy should be considered for metabolic surgery. This patient with class II obesity has an inability to meet her hemoglobin A1c goal of less than 7% on her current medical regimen. Further modifications to her current regimen may either exacerbate hypoglycemia and accelerate weight gain or not reach her glycemic goal.
Although sitagliptin, a dipeptidyl peptidase (DPP)-4-inhibitor, is a weight neutral oral agent that could potentially improve her hemoglobin A1c level by 0.95% to 1.1%, it would not achieve her target hemoglobin A1c of less than 7%.
Pioglitazone, a thiazolidinedione (TZD), improves insulin sensitivity and hemoglobin A1c by 0.9% to 1.1%. The addition of pioglitazone in this patient would likely not achieve her target hemoglobin A1c goal and could potentially induce additional weight gain, a known side effect of this drug class.
Increasing the patient's insulin doses may improve her hemoglobin A1c to goal, but it will exacerbate her hypoglycemia and promote additional weight gain.

**Bibliography**

Rubino F, Nathan DM, Eckel RH, Schauer PR, Alberti KG, Zimmet PZ, et al; Delegates of the 2nd Diabetes Surgery Summit. Metabolic surgery in the treatment algorithm for type 2 diabetes: a joint statement by International Diabetes Organizations. Diabetes Care. 2016;39:861-77. PMID: 27222544 doi:10.2337/dc16-0236

This content was last updated in August 2018.