
### Correct Answer: C) Osteomalacia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose osteomalacia.

#### **Key Point:** Osteomalacia related to malabsorption or dietary factors is characterized by low 25-hydroxyvitamin D, calcium, and phosphate levels and elevated parathyroid hormone and alkaline phosphatase levels.

The most likely diagnosis in this patient is osteomalacia causing bone pain or fracture of the pelvis or proximal right lower extremity. An insidious, protracted course involving enigmatic pain is typical of osteomalacia, which may be dismissed by patients or symptomatically treated by health care providers. Chronically low levels of vitamin D can lead to rickets in children and osteomalacia in adults. Vitamin D deficiency is caused by factors such as intestinal malabsorption due to gastrointestinal disorders or restricted access to sunlight. In promoting absorption from the gut, vitamin D enables proper bone mineralization by maintenance of calcium and phosphorus levels. Vitamin D also modulates the actions of osteoblasts and osteoclasts to ensure proper bone growth and remodeling. The more common forms of osteomalacia related to malabsorption or dietary factors are characterized by low 25-hydroxyvitamin D (calcidiol), low calcium and phosphate, and elevated parathyroid hormone (PTH) (secondary hyperparathyroidism) and alkaline phosphatase levels. Depending on the duration and severity of vitamin D deficiency, the serum concentration of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D may be normal, low, or high and is not helpful in the diagnosis of most forms of osteomalacia.
Osteitis fibrosa cystica is due to abnormally high bone turnover that can occur after prolonged exposure of bone to sustained high levels of PTH in hyperparathyroidism. It is associated with very high bone turnover, expansion of osteoid surfaces, and exuberant bone resorption resulting in an increased risk of fracture. Patients can be asymptomatic, or they may have bone pain. Classic skeletal changes on radiograph may include subperiosteal resorption of bone, most prominently at the phalanges of the hands. Osteitis fibrosa cystica is most commonly seen in patients with chronic kidney failure and is rarely associated with severe primary hyperparathyroidism.
Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) comprises four genetic syndromes characterized by autosomal dominant or recessive mutations in COL genes, leading to abnormalities in the structure of type I collagen. OI is associated with bone fractures, short stature, body deformity, hearing loss, and dental deformity. A classic feature of OI is blue sclerae (reflecting visibility of the underlying choroid), but it is not sensitive or specific to OI. The biochemical profile is usually normal in OI.
Postmenopausal osteoporosis is a diagnosis of exclusion, made only after having evaluated and eliminated other causes of low bone mineral density such as osteomalacia. Patients with osteoporosis have a normal biochemical profile.

**Bibliography**

Uday S, Högler W. Nutritional rickets and osteomalacia in the twenty-first century: revised concepts, public health, and prevention strategies. Curr Osteoporos Rep. 2017 Aug;15(4):293-302. Erratum in: Curr Osteoporos Rep. 2017 Aug 14; PMID: 28612338 doi:10.1007/s11914-017-0383-y

This content was last updated in August 2018.