
### Correct Answer: A) Decrease hydrochlorothiazide dose and obtain ambulatory blood pressure monitoring 

**Educational Objective:** Use ambulatory blood pressure monitoring to evaluate antihypertensive treatment.

#### **Key Point:** Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring provides valuable information supplementary to office blood pressure measurements in the evaluation of antihypertensive treatment.

The most appropriate management is to decrease the hydrochlorothiazide dose and obtain ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM). The patient presents with orthostatic hypotension that likely resulted in his near-syncope and fall due to a recent increase in the dose of a thiazide diuretic. The maximal daily recommended dose for hydrochlorothiazide is 25 mg for the treatment of hypertension; side effects increase beyond this dose with little further antihypertensive effect. Increasing the daily dose to 50 mg likely resulted in an orthostatic drop in his blood pressure, and his pulse rate did not change because he is on a β-blocker. Additional evidence of overtreatment includes an increase in his serum creatinine level, hyponatremia, hypokalemia, and the development of metabolic alkalosis. The appropriate next step is to lower his hydrochlorothiazide dose and obtain ABPM, which is valuable in providing information supplementary to office blood pressure measurements in clinical situations such as hypotensive symptoms from antihypertensive medication treatment. ABPM may reveal that the patient has an element of white coat hypertension and that his blood pressures at home are well controlled on his previous lower dose of hydrochlorothiazide.
Bilateral carotid ultrasonography is not the appropriate next step for this patient. Although he has evidence of atherosclerotic vascular disease and may have carotid stenosis, it is an unlikely cause of near-syncope and falling. The dizziness and fall were most likely the result of orthostasis.
In a study of 1920 hospitalized patients with syncope, the most commonly ordered tests, in addition to electrocardiography, were telemetry (95%), cardiac enzymes (95%), and CT of the head (63%). These tests, along with echocardiography, carotid ultrasonography, and electroencephalography, aided diagnosis in <2% of patients and altered management decisions in <5% of patients. The most valuable diagnostic and management test was postural blood pressure. The American College of Physicians does not recommend brain imaging, with either CT or MRI, in the evaluation of a patient with simple syncope and a normal neurologic examination.

**Bibliography**

Di Stefano C, Milazzo V, Totaro S, Sobrero G, Ravera A, Milan A, et al. Orthostatic hypotension in a cohort of hypertensive patients referring to a hypertension clinic. J Hum Hypertens. 2015;29:599-603. PMID: 25631221

This content was last updated in August 2018.