
### Correct Answer: B) Intravenous 0.9% saline 

**Educational Objective:** Treat rhabdomyolysis-induced acute kidney injury.

#### **Key Point:** Initial management of rhabdomyolysis-induced acute kidney injury includes aggressive fluid resuscitation with normal saline aimed at maintaining a urine output of 200 to 300 mL/h.

Intravenous 0.9% saline is the most appropriate treatment for this patient who has severe rhabdomyolysis from cocaine and opiates. Major causes of rhabdomyolysis include trauma, drugs and toxins, seizures, metabolic and electrolyte disorders, endocrinopathies, and exercise. Rhabdomyolysis-induced acute kidney injury (AKI) is associated with elevated serum creatine kinase (usually >5000 U/L) and creatinine levels, hyperkalemia, hypocalcemia, hyperphosphatemia, hyperuricemia, and increased anion gap metabolic acidosis. Patients with rhabdomyolysis tend to be significantly volume depleted due to the sequestration of water in injured muscles. Therefore, initial management is early with aggressive repletion of fluids aimed at maintaining a urine output of 200 to 300 mL/h. Normal saline is the recommended initial fluid of choice, and patients can require 10 liters of fluid per day.
Hemodialysis is reserved for patients with severe AKI who remain oliguric with persistent hyperkalemia, persistent metabolic acidosis, and/or volume overload. This patient does not have an indication for hemodialysis at this time.
Although the patient has hypernatremia, intravenous 5% dextrose is not adequate to expand the extracellular fluid compartment. Due to the osmotic gradient, hypotonic fluids will leave the extracellular fluid compartment for the intracellular compartment.
Hypocalcemia is due to sequestration of calcium in damaged cells. Rebound hypercalcemia occurs during the recovery phase due to release of calcium from damaged muscles and is worsened by exogenous calcium treatment. Calcium should only be given in patients who are symptomatic or in patients at risk for arrhythmia due to severe hyperkalemia with electrocardiogram changes.
Although alkalinization of the urine to a pH >6.5 may prevent intratubular pigment cast formation, decrease the release of free iron from myoglobin, and decrease the risk for tubular precipitation of uric acid, clear benefit is lacking. Intravenous bicarbonate should only be used after diuresis is established with volume repletion. It should not be used if pH is >7.5, serum bicarbonate is >30 mEq/L (30 mmol/L), and/or severe hypocalcemia is present. Intravenous bicarbonate can cause symptomatic hypocalcemia and can promote deposition of calcium phosphate in the renal tubules.

**Bibliography**

Cervellin G, Comelli I, Benatti M, Sanchis-Gomar F, Bassi A, Lippi G. Non-traumatic rhabdomyolysis: background, laboratory features, and acute clinical management. Clin Biochem. 2017;50:656-662. PMID: 28235546

This content was last updated in August 2018.