
### Correct Answer: B) Cisplatin 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose cisplatin-induced acute kidney injury.

#### **Key Point:** Cisplatin-induced acute kidney injury is characterized by polyuria, tubular injury, hypomagnesemia, and proximal renal tubular acidosis with Fanconi syndrome.

The patient has cisplatin-induced acute kidney injury (AKI). AKI due to renal tubular dysfunction can occur following administration of cisplatin and ifosfamide. High-dose methotrexate can also cause renal tubular injury, which can be avoided with aggressive intravenous hydration, forced diuresis, urine alkalization, and administration of leucovorin. Cisplatin induces direct cellular toxicity as a result of their transport through tubular cells, induction of mitochondrial injury, oxidative stress, and activation of apoptotic signaling pathways. Cisplatin-induced AKI develops 7 to 10 days after administration and is characterized by polyuria, tubular injury, hypomagnesemia, and proximal renal tubular acidosis (RTA) with Fanconi syndrome. Cisplatin nephrotoxicity results in volume depletion from urinary excretion of sodium and hypomagnesemia from urinary magnesium loss with ensuing hypokalemia and hypocalcemia. Fanconi syndrome in this patient is supported by the normal anion gap metabolic acidosis, hypophosphatemia, and urinary findings of glycosuria (in the setting of normal blood glucose) and proteinuria. In patients receiving cisplatin, serum electrolyte levels and kidney function must be carefully monitored because early recognition and prompt discontinuation of the drug are essential for renal recovery.
Bevacizumab and gemcitabine can cause hypertension and AKI due to thrombotic microangiopathy, which manifests as thrombocytopenia with hemolytic anemia, elevated lactate dehydrogenase, decreased haptoglobin, and schistocytes on peripheral smear. Urinary findings usually demonstrate significant proteinuria and hematuria. No laboratory findings in this patient support this diagnosis, and these drugs do not cause renal tubular injury.
Paclitaxel has been associated with subacute diffuse interstitial lung disease and peripheral neuropathy. Paclitaxel does not cause AKI or the electrolyte abnormalities as seen in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Rosner MH, Perazella MA. Acute kidney injury in patients with cancer. N Engl J Med. 2017;376:1770-1781. PMID: 28467867

This content was last updated in August 2018.