
### Correct Answer: B) Increase the furosemide dose 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hypertension to a blood pressure target of &lt;130/80 mm Hg in a patient with chronic kidney disease and hypervolemia.

#### **Key Point:** Control of sodium balance is an essential component of blood pressure management in patients with kidney disease; dietary sodium restriction to &lt;2000 mg/d combined with appropriate use of diuretics is recommended.

The most appropriate management is to increase the furosemide dose. The patient has chronic kidney disease and proteinuria of 1000 mg/g, and he is taking prednisone for his primary focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. The pathophysiology of hypertension in kidney disease is complex, but sodium retention is the predominant mechanism and is related to a reduction in glomerular filtration rate (GFR), resistance to natriuretic peptides, and increased activity of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Control of sodium balance is an essential component of blood pressure management in patients with kidney disease. Dietary sodium restriction to <2000 mg/d combined with appropriate use of diuretics is advised. As the GFR declines, thiazide diuretics become less effective. Loop diuretics should be employed in such patients, with doses titrated to clinical response. Because this patient is hypervolemic (elevated jugular venous pressure, S3, lower extremity edema), the dose of the loop diuretic needs to be increased.
Increasing the amlodipine dose is not the best option because it will not treat the underlying hypervolemia, and increasing the dose of amlodipine may worsen the lower extremity edema.
Adding an ACE inhibitor (such as lisinopril) is inappropriate because the patient is already on an angiotensin receptor blocker (losartan), and combination therapy with these agents and other renin-angiotensin system agents may result in adverse events such as hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury.
The 2017 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association high blood pressure guideline recommends a target blood pressure of <130/80 mm Hg in patients with hypertension and chronic kidney disease. More recent guidelines from the Department of Veterans Affairs suggest a diastolic blood pressure target <90 mm Hg for all adults. By either standard, this patient's systolic blood pressure is too high. Therefore, maintaining this patient's current medication regimen would be inappropriate.

**Bibliography**

Gargiulo R, Suhail F, Lerma EV. Hypertension and chronic kidney disease. Dis Mon. 2015;61:387-95. PMID: 26328515

This content was last updated in March 2021.