
### Correct Answer: D) Urine albumin-creatinine ratio 

**Educational Objective:** Predict chronic kidney disease progression using the four-variable kidney failure risk equation.

#### **Key Point:** The kidney failure risk equation uses four variables (age, sex, estimated glomerular filtration rate, and albuminuria) to predict 2-year and 5-year risk of end-stage kidney disease in patients with stages G3 to G5 chronic kidney disease.

A urine albumin-creatinine ratio is needed to complete the four-variable kidney failure risk equation (KFRE) for this patient with newly diagnosed chronic kidney disease (CKD). Not all patients with CKD will progress to end-stage kidney disease. In 2011, Tangri and colleagues developed and validated a set of risk prediction models for progression to kidney failure among Canadian patients with moderate to severe CKD. They demonstrated that using laboratory data that are routinely obtained in patients with CKD provided excellent discrimination for prediction of progression of CKD to kidney failure over a 2- to 5-year period. Several models and variables were tested. Ultimately, the highest-performing models were the four-variable KFRE (age, sex, estimated glomerular filtration rate, and urine albumin-creatinine ratio) and the eight-variable KFRE (previous four variables, plus serum calcium, phosphate, bicarbonate, and albumin). The addition of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, blood pressure, and body weight did not improve the ability to discriminate risk for kidney failure.
In 2016, the KFRE was validated in 31 international cohorts comprised of 721,357 patients with stage G3 to G5 CKD. Calculation of the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve quantifies the performance of a diagnostic test and allows comparison of different tests. A perfect test has an area under the curve (AUC) equal to 1; the closer the AUC is to 1, the better the test. The pooled AUC for the four-variable KFRE was 0.90 (95% CI, 0.89-0.92) to predict kidney failure at 2 years and 0.88 (95% CI, 0.86-0.90) at 5 years. Use of the eight-variable KFRE did not add to the predictive accuracy (AUC for 2 years, 0.89 [95% CI, 0.88-0.91]; AUC for 5 years, 0.86 [95% CI, 0.84-0.87]). Thus, the four-variable original risk equation appears generalizable and highly accurate in most cohorts and can be easily implemented across multiple health care systems. The KFRE performs well across age, sex, race, and the presence or absence of diabetes. The use of this equation is consistent with the Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) guidelines, which recommend integration of risk prediction in the evaluation and management of CKD.

**Bibliography**

Tangri N, Grams ME, Levey AS, Coresh J, Appel LJ, Astor BC, et al; CKD Prognosis Consortium. Multinational Assessment of Accuracy of Equations for Predicting Risk of Kidney Failure: A Meta-analysis. JAMA. 2016;315:164-74. PMID: 26757465

This content was last updated in August 2018.