
### Correct Answer: A) AA amyloidosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose AA amyloidosis in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis.

#### **Key Point:** AA amyloid is formed by serum amyloid A protein, an acute phase reactant produced in various inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis; confirmation of AA renal amyloidosis requires a kidney biopsy.

AA amyloidosis is the most likely cause of this patient's proteinuria. Chronic inflammatory states, particularly rheumatoid arthritis, are associated with production of amyloid protein A. This acute phase reactant deposits in numerous tissues, most commonly the kidney (80%-90%) and heart, forming β-pleated sheets. In the kidney, amyloidosis presents with a bland urinary sediment and nephrotic-range proteinuria. Progression to end-stage kidney disease is frequent. Cardiac manifestations may include systolic or diastolic dysfunction and heart failure; low voltage on electrocardiogram can be seen. Although serum amyloid P component scintigraphy can diagnose amyloid, it is not available in the United States. Confirmation would therefore require a kidney biopsy in this case. Current treatment strategies are aimed at the underlying disease. Tocilizumab, an anti–interleukin-6 antibody, has been used successfully in patients with AA amyloidosis from rheumatoid arthritis.
Both focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) and minimal change glomerulopathy (MCG) are associated with the nephrotic syndrome. However, FSGS more frequently affects black persons, and MCG is the most common cause of the nephrotic syndrome in children. Finally, this patient's history of a chronic inflammatory disease and findings of heart failure and an abnormal electrocardiogram more strongly suggest the possibility of amyloidosis.
NSAIDs are associated with interstitial nephritis and the nephrotic syndrome due to MCG or membranous glomerulopathy; typical findings include hematuria, pyuria, leukocyte casts, proteinuria, and an acute rise in the plasma creatinine concentration. However, this patient has not been using NSAIDs for the past 6 months and her urinalysis is bland, making this diagnosis unlikely.
Proton pump inhibitors can cause acute interstitial nephritis but are not associated with nephrotic-range proteinuria.

**Bibliography**

Obici L, Raimondi S, Lavatelli F, Bellotti V, Merlini G. Susceptibility to AA amyloidosis in rheumatic diseases: a critical overview. Arthritis Rheum. 2009;61:1435-40. PMID: 19790131

This content was last updated in August 2018.