
### Correct Answer: C) Initiate a trial of lifestyle modification 

**Educational Objective:** Treat elevated blood pressure with lifestyle modification.

#### **Key Point:** Nonpharmacologic therapy alone is especially useful for prevention of hypertension, including in adults with elevated blood pressure, and for management of high blood pressure in adults with milder forms of hypertension.

The most appropriate next step in management is lifestyle modification. According to the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) blood pressure guideline, this patient has elevated blood pressure (BP), defined as systolic BP between 120-129 mm Hg and diastolic BP <80 mm Hg. Meta-analysis of observational studies has demonstrated that elevated BP and hypertension (systolic BP >130 mm Hg or diastolic BP >80 mm Hg) are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, end-stage kidney disease, subclinical atherosclerosis, and all-cause death. Nonpharmacologic therapy alone is especially useful for prevention of hypertension, including in adults with elevated BP, and for management of high BP in adults with milder forms of hypertension. Recommended lifestyle modifications include weight loss in adults with overweight or obesity; a heart-healthy diet that facilitates achieving a desirable weight; reduced sodium intake; high potassium intake (unless contraindicated by the presence of chronic kidney disease or use of drugs that reduce potassium excretion); increase in physical activity; and limiting alcohol consumption of standard drinks to no more than two (men) or one (women) per day.
According to the ACC/AHA BP guideline, the use of antihypertensive medications is recommended for secondary prevention of recurrent coronary events in patients with clinical coronary vascular disease and an average systolic BP of ≥130 mm Hg or an average diastolic BP of ≥80 mm Hg. Drug therapy is also recommended for primary prevention in adults with an estimated 10-year atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk ≥10% and an average systolic BP ≥130 mm Hg or average diastolic BP ≥80 mm Hg. For initiation of antihypertensive drug therapy, first-line agents include thiazide diuretics, calcium channel blockers, and ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers. Because this patient has elevated BP (not hypertension), initiation of drug therapy is not indicated at this time.
The ACC/AHA recommends that adults with an elevated BP, such as this patient, should be managed with nonpharmacologic therapy and have a repeat BP evaluation within 3 to 6 months. Patients with normal BP (systolic BP <120 mm Hg and diastolic BP <80 mm Hg) can be reevaluated in 1 year.

**Bibliography**

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, Casey DE Jr, Collins KJ, Dennison Himmelfarb C, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention, detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Hypertension. 2017. PMID: 29133356

This content was last updated in August 2018.