
### Correct Answer: B) Bilateral radical nephrectomy 

**Educational Objective:** Manage acquired cystic kidney disease with suspected renal cell carcinoma in a patient with end-stage kidney disease.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with end-stage kidney disease have a markedly increased risk for renal cell carcinoma, and a high level of suspicion is warranted in patients with symptoms such as new-onset gross hematuria or unexplained flank pain.

Bilateral radical nephrectomy is the most appropriate management for this patient with end-stage chronic kidney disease (ESKD) and bilateral kidney solid masses. Acquired kidney cysts often develop in patients with severe chronic kidney disease (CKD) and are frequently detected during routine kidney ultrasound or incidentally noted on abdominal CT or MRI scan. Acquired cystic kidney disease becomes more common and progresses during the course of ESKD, and some studies suggest that it may affect >50% of patients who have had ESKD for >3 years. The epithelial cells lining these cysts may undergo malignant transformation by poorly understood mechanisms. Patients with ESKD have a markedly increased risk for renal cell carcinoma. Although current guidelines do not support routine screening for renal cell carcinoma in all patients with CKD, a high level of suspicion is warranted in patients with symptoms such as new-onset gross hematuria or unexplained flank pain.
Partial nephrectomy and nephron-sparing approaches would be indicated for less severe stages of CKD. However, this patient has ESKD, and maintaining residual kidney function is no longer a concern; therefore, radical nephrectomy would be the most appropriate option.
Kidney biopsy should be considered in patients with glomerular hematuria, severely increased albuminuria, acute or chronic kidney disease of unclear etiology, and kidney transplant dysfunction or monitoring. The role of kidney biopsy for a suspicious mass is more limited. It may be useful in the evaluation of a small mass if there is suspicion of a renal metastasis or lymphoma and is likely useful to confirm the diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma in patients who cannot tolerate surgery prior to initiating medical therapy. The best approach for this patient with a high likelihood of renal cell carcinoma is bilateral nephrectomy. The excised tissue will provide histological confirmation of the diagnosis and thus guide further therapy.
Surveillance ultrasonography would not be the best management of this patient with bilateral solid kidney masses. The new-onset hematuria and kidney masses in the context of advanced CKD are highly suspicious for renal cell carcinoma.

**Bibliography**

Hu SL, Chang A, Perazella MA, Okusa MD, Jaimes EA, Weiss RH; American Society of Nephrology Onco-Nephrology Forum. The nephrologist's tumor: basic biology and management of renal cell carcinoma. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2016;27:2227-37. PMID: 26961346

This content was last updated in August 2018.