
### Correct Answer: B) Annual blood pressure screening 

**Educational Objective:** Provide appropriate blood pressure screening for a patient at increased risk for cardiovascular disease.

#### **Key Point:** Annual blood pressure screening is appropriate for patients who are ≥40 years of age and persons at increased risk for hypertension.

Annual blood pressure screening is the most appropriate management. This patient is healthy, physically active, not overweight, and does not meet criteria for hypertension based on these office blood pressure (BP) readings measured during one visit. However, he is at risk for future hypertension given his age (>40 years), black race, and a positive family history of hypertension. In addition, according to the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) guideline, the patient has elevated BP, defined as systolic BP between 120-129 mm Hg and diastolic BP <80 mm Hg. Although no interventions are needed during this visit, the patient does need to be screened for high BP at least annually or more frequently. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommendations have not been updated since the release of the ACC/AHA guideline, with borderline and normal BP defined by older guidelines; however, the USPSTF recommends screening for hypertension in adults ≥18 years of age to identify those at increased risk for cardiovascular disease from hypertension and to begin early interventions to decrease this risk. Adults aged 18 to 39 years with normal BP and without cardiovascular risk factors should be rescreened every 3 to 5 years. Those who are ≥40 years of age and persons at increased risk for hypertension should be screened annually.
Beginning antihypertensive therapy with medications such as amlodipine or hydrochlorothiazide is inappropriate for this patient who does not meet the criteria for hypertension (defined by the ACC/AHA as a systolic BP ≥130 mm Hg and/or a diastolic BP ≥80 mm Hg). According to this guideline, patients with clinical cardiovascular disease and an average systolic BP ≥130 mm Hg or an average diastolic BP ≥80 mm Hg should be treated with lifestyle changes and medications for secondary prevention of cardiovascular events. Adults without clinical cardiovascular disease but an estimated 10-year atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk ≥10% and an average systolic BP ≥130 mm Hg or an average diastolic BP ≥80 mm Hg should also be treated with lifestyle interventions and pharmacologic therapy for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease.

**Bibliography**

Siu AL; U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for high blood pressure in adults: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. Ann Intern Med. 2015;163:778-86. PMID: 26458123

This content was last updated in March 2020.