
### Correct Answer: A) Delay dialysis until uremic symptoms occur 

**Educational Objective:** Manage stage G5 chronic kidney disease in a patient who will imminently require renal replacement therapy.

#### **Key Point:** There is no benefit in starting renal replacement therapy (RRT) in asymptomatic patients or at an arbitrary estimated glomerular filtration rate cutoff compared with careful clinical management and initiating RRT for symptoms or metabolic abnormalities that are refractory to medical treatment.

The most appropriate management for this patient with stage G5 chronic kidney disease (CKD) is to delay dialysis until she has uremic symptoms. She is not a candidate for transplant and has opted for hemodialysis for her renal replacement therapy (RRT). The decision of when to start RRT for CKD is complicated and requires frank discussion between providers and the patient and their families. For many years, consensus guidelines suggested that dialysis be initiated on the basis of estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) cutoffs, ranging between 10 and 15 mL/min/1.73 m2. In 2010, results were published from the IDEAL (Initiating Dialysis Early and Late) trial, which demonstrated no significant difference between the early dialysis group (eGFR, 10-15 mL/min/1.73 m2) and late dialysis group (eGFR, 5-7 mL/min/1.73 m2) in the frequency of adverse events (cardiovascular events, infections, or complications of dialysis). Although 76% of the late-start group ultimately initiated dialysis with eGFR >7.0 mL/min/1.73 m2, the median delay in onset of dialysis was 5.6 months compared with the early start group. Thus, this study demonstrated that with careful clinical management, dialysis may be delayed until either the GFR drops below 7.0 mL/min/1.73 m2 or more traditional clinical indicators (such as uremic symptoms or metabolic abnormalities) for the initiation of dialysis are present.
Discontinuation of diuretics is inappropriate because the patient does have some evidence of total body sodium and water overload (2+ edema) and thus needs continued diuretic therapy to avoid frank volume overload.
Referral for palliative care is not indicated because the patient is functioning well and is without signs of terminal illness or symptoms that require palliation; moreover, she has already chosen hemodialysis for future RRT. However, if her condition worsens over time, it is strongly encouraged to practice “kidney supportive care” or “patient-centered dialysis,” in which treatment goals are closely aligned with patient preferences in a shared decision-making process.

**Bibliography**

Cooper BA, Branley P, Bulfone L, Collins JF, Craig JC, Fraenkel MB, et al; IDEAL Study. A randomized, controlled trial of early versus late initiation of dialysis. N Engl J Med. 2010;363:609-19. PMID: 20581422

This content was last updated in August 2018.