
### Correct Answer: A) Begin intravenous 0.9% saline 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent contrast-induced nephropathy.

#### **Key Point:** Intravenous volume expansion with isotonic crystalloids has been shown to decrease the incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients at risk.

The administration of 0.9% saline is an appropriate measure to prevent contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN), which is recognized as a distinct subset among patients with contrast-associated nephropathy (CAN). CAN is defined as an increase in serum creatinine levels within 24 to 48 hours of contrast exposure, and is a common cause of reversible acute kidney injury in the hospital. Several large, well-controlled observational studies suggest that a substantial proportion of acute kidney injury that follows administration of intravenous contrast material is not, in fact, directly attributable to the contrast agent. CIN includes that subset of CAN in which the kidney injury can be more definitively linked to the contrast exposure, rather than other potential causes of nephrotoxicity. Adequate intravenous volume expansion with isotonic crystalloids before the procedure and continued for 6 to 24 hours afterward has been shown to decrease the incidence of CIN in patients at risk. Intravenous hydration induces an increase of urine flow rate, reduces the concentration of contrast in the tubule, and increases the excretion of contrast. Because administration of intravenous crystalloid remains the primary strategy for reducing the risk of CIN, patients with compensated heart failure should still be given intravenous volume. Patients with uncompensated heart failure should undergo hemodynamic monitoring with continuation of diuretics. This patient has compensated heart failure noted on examination and should be given fluids.
A recent large randomized trial among patients at high risk for kidney complications compared three different strategies to prevent CIN: intravenous 1.26% sodium bicarbonate or intravenous 0.9% sodium chloride and 5 days of oral acetylcysteine or oral placebo. For fluid administration, this study used a protocol of 1 to 3 mL/kg/h before angiography, 1 to 1.5 mL/kg/h during angiography, and 1 to 3 mL/kg/h 2 to 12 hours after angiography. There was no benefit of intravenous sodium bicarbonate over intravenous sodium chloride or of oral acetylcysteine over placebo for the prevention of death, need for dialysis, or persistent decline in kidney function at 90 days or for the prevention of CIN.
Some but not all studies suggest that statins may reduce the risk of CIN. A 2016 meta-analysis suggested that statins given with N-acetylcysteine plus intravenous saline reduced the risk of CIN compared with N-acetylcysteine plus intravenous saline alone in relatively low-risk patients. Based on these results, there is no need to discontinue atorvastatin in this patient.
Discontinuation of ACE inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers such as irbesartan has not been clearly shown to decrease the risk of CIN.

**Bibliography**

Weisbord SD, Gallagher M, Jneid H, Garcia S, Cass A, Thwin SS, et al; PRESERVE Trial Group. Outcomes after angiography with sodium bicarbonate and acetylcysteine. N Engl J Med. 2018;378:603-614. PMID: 29130810

This content was last updated in October 2020.