
### Correct Answer: C) Multiple myeloma 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose multiple myeloma–associated hypercalcemia as a cause of acute kidney injury.

#### **Key Point:** A diagnosis of multiple myeloma is suggested by the constellation of anemia, hypercalcemia, normal anion gap metabolic acidosis, and acute kidney injury.

This patient's acute kidney injury (AKI) is due to hypercalcemia from multiple myeloma. Classic symptoms of polyuria, polydipsia, and nocturia sometimes occur with elevated serum calcium levels of 11 mg/dL (2.8 mmol/L) or less. Other symptoms such as anorexia, nausea, abdominal pain, constipation, increased serum creatinine levels, and mild mental status changes are more likely to occur with levels >11 mg/dL (2.8 mmol/L). Kidney dysfunction is found in about 30% of patients diagnosed with multiple myeloma, often due to cast nephropathy (also termed myeloma kidney), a condition in which excess monoclonal free light chains precipitate in the distal tubules and incite tubulointerstitial damage. Hypercalcemia and exposure to nephrotoxic agents are other frequent causes of kidney dysfunction. Hypercalcemia can decrease glomerular filtration rate through renal vasoconstriction, the natriuretic effects of high serum calcium levels, and impaired renal concentrating ability. This patient has orthostatic hypotension, a bland urinalysis with hyaline casts, and a low urinary sodium, consistent with a prerenal AKI from hypovolemia. The constellation of hypercalcemia, normal anion gap metabolic acidosis, pancytopenia, and AKI suggests multiple myeloma as the etiology.
Hydrochlorothiazide can cause volume depletion, decreased excretion of calcium and mild hypercalcemia, prerenal AKI, and metabolic alkalosis (due to hypovolemic stimulation of aldosterone release). However, the effect on serum calcium is usually minimal, and the patient has a metabolic acidosis, not metabolic alkalosis as might be seen with thiazide therapy.
Milk alkali syndrome occurs with the ingestion of large amounts of calcium and absorbable alkali (for example, calcium carbonate). It presents as hypercalcemia, metabolic alkalosis, and AKI. This patient has a metabolic acidosis, not a metabolic alkalosis, making this diagnosis unlikely.
Primary hyperparathyroidism is the most common cause of hypercalcemia in otherwise healthy outpatients and is diagnosed with a simultaneously elevated serum calcium level and an inappropriately normal or elevated intact parathyroid hormone level. Serum phosphorus levels are typically low or low-normal in these patients. This patient's phosphorus level is elevated, making the diagnosis of primary hyperparathyroidism unlikely.

**Bibliography**

Rosner MH, Perazella MA. Acute kidney injury in patients with cancer. N Engl J Med. 2017;376:1770-1781. PMID: 28467867

This content was last updated in October 2020.