
### Correct Answer: C) Intravenous hydration, fomepizole, and hemodialysis 

**Educational Objective:** Treat ethylene glycol toxicity.

#### **Key Point:** Management of ethylene glycol toxicity in the context of organ-specific toxicity, severe acidemia, or very large ingestions includes aggressive fluid resuscitation, fomepizole, and hemodialysis.

The most appropriate management is intravenous hydration, fomepizole, and hemodialysis. This patient has typical findings of ethylene glycol toxicity, including central nervous system depression, an increased anion gap metabolic acidosis, and an increased osmolal gap. In patients with an increased anion gap acidosis, calculation of the serum osmolal gap is helpful in assessing the presence of unmeasured solutes, such as ingestion of certain toxins (for example, methanol or ethylene glycol). The serum osmolal gap is the difference between the measured and calculated serum osmolality. Serum osmolality can be calculated using the following formula:
Serum Osmolality (mOsm/kg H2O) = (2 × Serum Sodium [mEq/L]) + Plasma Glucose (mg/dL)/18 + Blood Urea Nitrogen (mg/dL)/2.8
When the measured osmolality exceeds the calculated osmolality by >10 mOsm/kg H2O, the osmolal gap is considered elevated. This patient has an osmolal gap of 27 mOsm/kg H2O. Finally, this patient has kidney failure likely resulting from deposition of calcium oxalate crystals in the renal tubules. Because laboratory confirmation of ethylene glycol intoxication may take days, empiric therapy with fomepizole and aggressive fluid resuscitation with crystalloids (250-500 mL/h intravenous initially) should be instituted in all cases to increase kidney clearance of the toxin and to limit deposition of oxalate in the renal cortex. Hemodialysis to clear the alcohol and toxic metabolites should be instituted in the context of any organ-specific toxicity (central nervous system depression, acute kidney injury, systemic collapse), severe acidemia, or very large ingestions.
Activated charcoal gastric decontamination and nasogastric lavage have no role in toxic alcohol poisoning; both ethylene glycol and methanol are typically absorbed too rapidly for either of these modalities to be useful.
Intravenous ethanol was traditionally used as a competitive inhibitor of alcohol dehydrogenase. However, fomepizole has been found to be superior to alcohol with few side effects. Therefore, fomepizole is the preferred agent, and there is no additional benefit to coadministration of the two.
Adjunct therapy with intravenous sodium bicarbonate therapy in the context of pH <7.30 may reduce penetration of toxic metabolites of ethylene glycol (glycolate, glyoxylate, and oxalate) and methanol (formate) into the tissues and enhance renal excretion of glycolate and formate. However, the initiation of dialysis in this patient is more efficacious.

**Bibliography**

Kruse JA. Methanol and ethylene glycol intoxication. Crit Care Clin. 2012;28:661-711. PMID: 22998995

This content was last updated in August 2018.