
### Correct Answer: A) Age- and sex-appropriate cancer screening 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate for secondary causes of membranous glomerulopathy.

#### **Key Point:** The initial step in the management of newly diagnosed membranous glomerulopathy is to evaluate for secondary forms of the disease, which account for approximately 25% of cases.

Age- and sex-appropriate cancer screening is the most appropriate management. The initial step in the management of newly diagnosed membranous glomerulopathy is to evaluate for secondary forms of the disease, which account for approximately 25% of cases. Some of this evaluation is often done in the prebiopsy screening laboratory tests (for example, screening for hepatitis B and C viruses, lupus, and syphilis). Secondary forms of membranous glomerulopathy correlate with age. Cancer screening is particularly important in evaluating for secondary forms of membranous glomerulopathy in patients over the age of 65 years. Up to 25% of such patients will have a malignancy discovered within 1 year of diagnosis, essentially accounting for all forms of secondary membranous glomerulopathy in this age group. This 68-year-old woman with newly diagnosed membranous glomerulopathy has a 50-pack-year history of smoking. She should be sent for age- and sex-appropriate cancer screening, which would include cervical cytology and human papillomavirus testing, mammography, colonoscopy, and low-dose chest CT.
Immunosuppression should not be offered in this case until a secondary form has definitively been ruled out and the patient has been carefully monitored for at least 3 to 6 months to allow for the possibility, if this is a primary form of membranous glomerulopathy, for spontaneous remission, which occurs in approximately one third of primary cases.
Membranous glomerulopathy is associated with a higher risk for clotting, particularly when serum albumin is <2.8 g/dL (28 g/L). However, there is no consensus on whether such patients should be offered prophylactic anticoagulation, and most experts in the United States opt for vigilant monitoring rather than prophylactic anticoagulation.
The M-type phospholipase A2 receptor (PLA2R) is the specific podocyte antigen responsible for eliciting immune complex formation with circulating autoantibodies in most cases of primary membranous glomerulopathy. Anti-PLA2R antibodies are detected in approximately 75% of primary cases and rarely found in secondary forms. A negative staining on biopsy for this antigen (which is a more specific test than serum antibody assays) raises suspicion for a secondary form of the disease and does not require serum testing for confirmation.

**Bibliography**

Leeaphorn N, Kue-A-Pai P, Thamcharoen N, Ungprasert P, Stokes MB, Knight EL. Prevalence of cancer in membranous nephropathy: a systematic review and meta-analysis of observational studies. Am J Nephrol. 2014;40:29-35. PMID: 24993974

This content was last updated in August 2018.