
### Correct Answer: B) Endoscopic urologic evaluation 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose transitional cell (urothelial) cancer in a patient with Balkan endemic nephropathy.

#### **Key Point:** Balkan endemic nephropathy is strongly associated with the development of upper tract transitional cell (urothelial) cancers, and urologic evaluation is necessary.

The most appropriate next step for this patient is an endoscopic urologic evaluation with cystoscopy and upper tract imaging. The patient has Balkan endemic nephropathy (BEN), a slowly progressive tubulointerstitial disease that has been linked to aristolochic acid. Aristolochic acid is a nephrotoxic alkaloid from the plant Aristolochia clematitis. BEN has a high prevalence rate in southeastern Europe (Serbia, Bulgaria, Romania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Croatia) and is the cause of kidney disease in up to 70% of patients receiving dialysis in some of the most heavily affected regions. Aristolochic acid is also sometimes found as a component of herbal therapies used for weight loss. Characteristics of BEN include chronic kidney disease due to tubulointerstitial injury, tubular dysfunction (polyuria and decreased concentrating ability, glucosuria without hyperglycemia, and tubular proteinuria), and anemia. Ultrasound demonstrates small echogenic kidneys. BEN has a familial but not inherited pattern of distribution. It is thought to be caused by exposure to aristolochic acid, and, because it is mutagenic, it is strongly associated with the development of upper tract transitional cell (urothelial) cancers. Therefore, urologic evaluation is indicated.
CT urography is the preferred test for patients with unexplained urologic/nonglomerular hematuria. However, CT urography involves the use of intravenous contrast, which would place this patient at a high risk of developing contrast-induced nephropathy given the severity of his kidney disease. Cystoscopy and retrograde ureteropyelography would be the preferred imaging techniques for this patient.
Kidney biopsy would not explain the nondysmorphic hematuria. Furthermore, kidney biopsy is not indicated in the setting of small echogenic kidneys <9 cm in size, which signifies chronic irreversible disease.
Pyuria, granular casts, and low-grade proteinuria are commonly found in patients with tubulointerstitial nephritis and contrasts with the isolated pyuria associated with most urinary tract infections. In addition, the small, echogenic kidneys, chronic hematuria, and irregular bladder wall are not consistent with a urinary tract infection and more strongly suggest the possibility of a malignancy. Therefore, urine cultures are not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Stefanovic V, Toncheva D, Polenakovic M. Balkan nephropathy. Clin Nephrol. 2015;83:64-9. PMID: 25725245

This content was last updated in September 2019.