
### Correct Answer: A) Desmopressin acetate 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hypernatremia caused by central diabetes insipidus.

#### **Key Point:** Diabetes insipidus (DI) is diagnosed with simultaneous laboratory evidence of inability to concentrate urine in the face of elevated serum sodium and osmolality; a water deprivation test can confirm the diagnosis, and response to exogenous antidiuretic hormone supports the diagnosis of central DI.

In addition to increasing the prednisone, the antidiuretic hormone (ADH) analogue desmopressin acetate is the most appropriate treatment. This patient most likely has central nervous system sarcoidosis and central diabetes insipidus (DI). Nearly half of hypothalamic-pituitary sarcoidosis cases occur in the course of previously treated sarcoidosis. Central DI results from inadequate release of ADH from the posterior pituitary gland. In the presence of ADH, aquaporin water channels are inserted in the collecting tubules and allow water to be reabsorbed. In the absence of ADH, excessive water is excreted by the kidneys. Frank hypernatremia is unusual because patients develop extreme thirst and polydipsia, and with free access to water, can maintain serum sodium in the high normal range. When patients do not drink enough to replace the water lost in the urine, due to poor or absent thirst drive or lack of free access to water, they develop hypernatremia. DI is diagnosed with simultaneous laboratory evidence of inability to concentrate urine (urine osmolality <300 mOsm/kg H2O) in the face of elevated serum sodium and osmolality. If necessary, a water deprivation test can confirm the diagnosis. A response to exogenous ADH would support a diagnosis of central DI, whereas a lack of response is seen in nephrogenic DI.
Although volume depletion induced by hydrochlorothiazide will help decrease urine output and conserve water, this treatment is reserved for patients with nephrogenic DI and is not necessary in central DI.
The hypernatremia in this case is mild, without symptoms, and can be rapidly treated with the administration of desmopressin acetate; therefore, it is not necessary to administer intravenous 5% dextrose.
Tolvaptan is a vasopressin receptor antagonist sometimes used for the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, which is characterized by normal volume status, hyponatremia, and inappropriately elevated urine osmolality (not present in this patient).

**Bibliography**

Langrand C, Bihan H, Raverot G, Varron L, Androdias G, Borson-Chazot F, et al. Hypothalamo-pituitary sarcoidosis: a multicenter study of 24 patients. QJM. 2012;105:981-95. PMID: 22753675

This content was last updated in March 2020.