
### Correct Answer: B) Heparin 

**Educational Objective:** Identify heparin as a cause of hyperkalemia.

#### **Key Point:** Hypoaldosteronism caused by heparin, inhibitors of the renin-angiotensin system, type 4 renal tubular acidosis, or primary adrenal disease can cause hyperkalemia, especially in patients with chronic kidney disease or diabetes mellitus, or in those taking an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker.

The most likely cause of this patient's elevated serum potassium level is heparin. Hypoaldosteronism caused by heparin, inhibitors of the renin-angiotensin system, type 4 renal tubular acidosis, or primary adrenal disease can cause hyperkalemia. Both unfractionated and low-molecular-weight heparin use is associated with a decrease in aldosterone synthesis. This occurs more frequently in patients with chronic kidney disease or diabetes mellitus, or in those taking an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker.
Major underlying causes of persistent hyperkalemia are disorders in which urine potassium excretion is impaired. This can be due to a marked decrease in glomerular filtration rate, decreased sodium delivery to the distal potassium secretory sites, and hypoaldosteronism. The most common cause is chronic kidney disease with a glomerular filtration rate <20 mL/min/1.73 m2 or acute oliguric kidney injury. Except in these cases, the kidney is able to maintain potassium homeostasis. The patient is not oliguric, and the slight increase in serum creatinine postoperatively is not sufficient to cause hyperkalemia.
Extreme elevations in glucose by increasing serum osmolality can directly cause hyperkalemia by pulling water from the intracellular space into the extracellular space, dragging potassium with it. This patient's glucose is only mildly elevated and would have little effect on osmolality and hyperkalemia.
In patients with metabolic acidosis caused by mineral acids (such as hydrochloric acid), buffering of intracellular hydrogen ions leads to potassium movement into the extracellular fluid to maintain electroneutrality. This does not occur with organic acids such as lactate or ketoacids. In most cases of hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis, hyperkalemia typically does not develop because there is concomitant urinary and/or gastrointestinal potassium loss. This is the case in patients with hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis with losses of potassium in the stool as the result of diarrhea or in the urine in patients with renal tubular acidosis.
Topiramate is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. Carbonic anhydrase inhibition results in proximal bicarbonate, sodium, and chloride urinary loss. The increased sodium loss causes hypovolemia and triggers secondary hyperaldosteronism, promoting potassium loss and hypokalemia.

**Bibliography**

Kovesdy CP. Updates in hyperkalemia: outcomes and therapeutic strategies. Rev Endocr Metab Disord. 2017;18:41-47. PMID: 27600582

This content was last updated in August 2018.