
### Correct Answer: A) Greater autonomy 

**Educational Objective:** Select the most appropriate pretransplant renal replacement therapy.

#### **Key Point:** In properly selected individuals, peritoneal dialysis allows patients to preserve their independence and offers outcomes similar to those seen with hemodialysis.

Due to this patient's full-time occupation and requirement to be present on-site at the workplace, peritoneal dialysis might be the preferred management for his end-stage kidney disease (ESKD). Peritoneal dialysis is a renal replacement therapy (RRT) modality utilizing the peritoneal membrane for diffusion of solutes and osmosis of water against a concentration gradient provided by infused dialysate. Patients exchange the dialysate three to five times per day rather than go to a dialysis center for 4 hours three times per week for hemodialysis. Control over one's dialysis is conducive for patients with full-time obligations, such as school or employment. The peritoneal dialysis exchanges can be performed overnight while the individual is sleeping and allow for greater independence during the day. The patient is otherwise healthy and independent. He has never had abdominal surgery, and his BMI is normal. He is an ideal candidate for peritoneal dialysis, and this modality will also allow him to preserve his independence and more easily transition to a life with ESKD. Planning for the right dialysis modality that best fits the patient's daily routine and lifestyle is important for patient satisfaction and long-term success.
A recent meta-analysis analyzing the effect of peritoneal dialysis versus hemodialysis on renal anemia in patients with ESKD found no significant difference for levels of hemoglobin, ferritin, parathyroid hormone, and transferrin saturation index between the hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis groups. Both of the two dialysis strategies have a similar effect on renal anemia in patients with ESKD.
Clinical outcomes are similar for patients receiving peritoneal dialysis compared with those receiving hemodialysis, although patients starting RRT with residual kidney function may have better outcomes with peritoneal dialysis. Furthermore, residual kidney function is preserved longer with peritoneal dialysis than with hemodialysis and, although small, helps maintain adequate solute clearance and euvolemia. Finally, patients treated with peritoneal dialysis are more satisfied with their treatment and indicate a more satisfying shared decision-making experience.
Peritonitis is one of the most important complications of peritoneal dialysis and can damage the peritoneum, reducing the efficacy of dialysis. Peritoneal dialysis–associated peritonitis is uncommon, with one episode of peritonitis every 2 to 3 years, usually caused by bacteria from skin introduced by poor sterile technique and often easily treated with antibiotics.

**Bibliography**

Hansson JH, Watnick S. Update on peritoneal dialysis: core curriculum 2016. Am J Kidney Dis. 2016;67:151-64. PMID: 26376606

This content was last updated in August 2018.