
### Correct Answer: B) Schedule a kidney biopsy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose glomerulopathy with a kidney biopsy.

#### **Key Point:** A kidney biopsy is required to make the diagnosis of glomerulopathy associated with the nephrotic syndrome in adult patients.

A kidney biopsy is the most appropriate next step for this patient who has the nephrotic syndrome most likely caused by minimal change glomerulopathy (MCG). MCG is the cause of the nephrotic syndrome in 10% to 15% of adults, with a significantly higher incidence in elderly patients (≥65 years of age) and very elderly patients (≥80 years of age). Most cases are idiopathic, but secondary causes must be considered in adults, including medications such as NSAIDs. Adults with MCG present with acute kidney injury (AKI) in up to 25% of cases. Factors associated with AKI include older age, male sex, hypertension, low serum albumin levels, and heavier proteinuria. The differential diagnosis for the nephrotic syndrome with AKI is limited to only a few entities: MCG with acute tubular necrosis or allergic interstitial nephritis, membranous glomerulopathy with bilateral renal vein thrombosis, amyloidosis with cast nephropathy, and collapsing focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. A kidney biopsy is therefore required to make the correct diagnosis.
Dialysis is used to control complications of severe AKI. Absolute indications for dialysis include hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, and pulmonary edema refractory to medical therapy; uremic symptoms; uremic pericarditis; and certain drug intoxications. This patient has no indication for dialysis.
The pathophysiology of hypercoagulability in the nephrotic syndrome is not well understood, nor has the mechanism underlying the higher propensity for thromboembolism in membranous glomerulopathy been well defined. There are no randomized clinical trials of prophylactic anticoagulation in patients with the nephrotic syndrome to guide clinical decision-making; in the absence of known risk and benefits, many experts recommend against prophylactic anticoagulation. Anticoagulation is typically recommended for patients with documented renal vein thrombosis to prevent further propagation of the thrombus and systemic embolization. The patient's ultrasound does not show evidence of renal vein thrombosis, and anticoagulation should be withheld.
Although this presentation is most suggestive of MCG given the patient's age, empiric glucocorticoids would not be indicated without a biopsy-confirmed diagnosis because glucocorticoid monotherapy would not be efficacious in the treatment of membranous glomerulopathy or amyloidosis.

**Bibliography**

Waldman M, Crew RJ, Valeri A, Busch J, Stokes B, Markowitz G, et al. Adult minimal-change disease: clinical characteristics, treatment, and outcomes. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2007;2:445-53. PMID: 17699450

This content was last updated in March 2020.