
### Correct Answer: A) Amlodipine/benazepril combination once daily 

**Educational Objective:** Initiate combination antihypertensive therapy for treatment of stage 2 hypertension.

#### **Key Point:** The 2017 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association blood pressure (BP) guideline recommends combination therapy with two first-line antihypertensive drugs of different classes (separately or as a single-dose pill) for adults with stage 2 hypertension and an average BP of 20/10 mm Hg above BP target.

Combination therapy with amlodipine/benazepril is appropriate treatment for this patient with stage 2 hypertension. The 2017 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association blood pressure (BP) guideline recommends combination therapy with two first-line antihypertensive drugs of different classes (separately or as a single-dose pill) for adults with stage 2 hypertension and an average BP that is 20/10 mm Hg above their BP target. Stage 2 hypertension is defined as BP ≥140/90 mm Hg. This patient's target BP is <130/80 mm Hg. There are no definitive recommendations for best drug combinations, but some data suggest an ACE inhibitor/calcium channel blocker (CCB) combination may be more efficacious than an ACE inhibitor/thiazide diuretic combination. Using a thiazide diuretic/CCB combination is also an option. It is important to note that in black patients, ACE inhibitors are not as efficacious at reducing BP compared with thiazide diuretics or CCBs.
Specific non-recommended initial agents for the treatment of hypertension include β-blockers (due to higher rate of cardiovascular-related events and mortality compared with angiotensin receptor blockers) and α-blockers (due to higher rate of cardiovascular-related events and mortality compared with thiazides), although compelling clinical indications such as atrial fibrillation or benign prostatic hyperplasia may supersede these recommended restrictions.
Initiation of once-daily dosing of a combination pill simplifies the medication regimen and is appropriate in this patient to ensure adherence. Therefore, initiation of hydralazine is not correct because two-drug therapy is recommended for this patient, and adherence to a thrice-daily medication will be problematic.
Combination therapy with an ACE inhibitor (ramipril) and an angiotensin receptor blocker (telmisartan) is not recommended. Several clinical trials (ONTARGET, NEPHRON-D, ALTITUDE) have revealed more adverse events with these combinations (hyperkalemia, hypotension, acute kidney injury), without additional cardiovascular or renal benefits.

**Bibliography**

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, Casey DE Jr, Collins KJ, Dennison Himmelfarb C, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention, detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Hypertension. 2017. PMID: 29133356

This content was last updated in August 2018.