
### Correct Answer: A) ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis.

#### **Key Point:** ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis is typically characterized by a vasculitic prodrome of malaise, arthralgia, myalgia, and skin findings; hematuria, proteinuria, and acute kidney injury are present, and kidney biopsy will confirm diagnosis.

The most likely diagnosis is ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis (pauci-immune crescentic glomerulonephritis). This patient's clinical picture suggests a rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (RPGN), with an acute and steep rise in serum creatinine accompanied by hematuria and proteinuria. The differential diagnosis for RPGN is classically accounted for by three immunofluorescence findings seen on diagnostic kidney biopsy: pauci-immune staining (for example, ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis), linear staining (for example, anti–glomerular basement membrane glomerulonephritis), and granular staining (for example, lupus nephritis). ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis accounts for more than half of all RPGN cases and has a particularly high prevalence in patients >65 years of age presenting with acute kidney injury and active urine sediment. The patient's clinical presentation of acute onset of flu-like symptoms is a classic presentation for vasculitis, and the lacy or reticular rash on examination is likely related to active ANCA-associated vasculitis. He should be tested for antiproteinase-3 and antimyeloperoxidase ANCA antibodies and undergo kidney biopsy to confirm the diagnosis.
Anti–glomerular basement membrane antibody disease is a far rarer form of RPGN, with peak incidences in young men and older women. More than half of patients present with concomitant alveolar hemorrhage that may progress to life-threatening respiratory failure. These findings are not present in this patient.
Minimal change glomerulopathy is characterized by sudden-onset nephrotic syndrome. It can be associated with acute kidney injury in elderly patients, and the presentation is one of severe nephrotic syndrome without significant hematuria. This is distinctly different from this patient's presentation of rash, hypertension, rapidly progressive kidney failure, and active urine sediment.
Kidney dysfunction is found in 29% of patients with multiple myeloma, often due to cast nephropathy (also termed myeloma kidney), a condition in which excess monoclonal free light chains precipitate in the distal tubules and incite tubulointerstitial damage. Patients will typically have concomitant anemia and hypercalcemia. These findings are absent in this patient.
Proliferative lupus nephritis is a cause of RPGN that is usually limited to the pediatric and young adult patient population.

**Bibliography**

Bomback AS, Appel GB, Radhakrishnan J, Shirazian S, Herlitz LC, Stokes B, et al. ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis in the very elderly. Kidney Int. 2011;79:757-64. PMID: 21160463

This content was last updated in August 2018.