
### Correct Answer: C) Pyroglutamic acidosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose pyroglutamic acidosis.

#### **Key Point:** Pyroglutamic acidosis occurs in patients receiving therapeutic doses of acetaminophen on a chronic basis in the setting of critical illness, poor nutrition, liver disease, chronic kidney disease, or a strict vegetarian diet; diagnosis can be confirmed by measuring urine levels of pyroglutamic acid.

The most likely diagnosis is pyroglutamic acidosis. Pyroglutamic acidosis, which presents with mental status changes and an increased anion gap, occurs in selected patients receiving therapeutic doses of acetaminophen on a chronic basis. Susceptible patients are those with critical illness, poor nutrition, liver disease, or chronic kidney disease, as well as those on a strict vegetarian diet. In this context, acetaminophen leads to depletion of glutathione, altering the γ-glutamyl cycle to overproduce pyroglutamic acid (also known as 5-oxoproline). Diagnosis can be confirmed by measuring urine levels of pyroglutamic acid.
D-Lactic acidosis presents with an increased anion gap metabolic acidosis and characteristic neurologic findings of intermittent confusion, slurred speech, and ataxia in patients with short-bowel syndrome. Accumulation of the D-isomer of lactate can occur in patients with short-bowel syndrome following jejunoileal bypass or small-bowel resection. In these patients, excess carbohydrates that reach the colon are metabolized to D-lactate. Laboratory studies show increased anion gap metabolic acidosis with normal plasma lactate levels, because the D-isomer is not measured by conventional laboratory assays for lactate. Diagnosis is confirmed by specifically measuring D-lactate. This patient's lack of short-bowel syndrome rules out this diagnosis.
Propylene glycol, a solvent used to enhance the solubility of various intravenously administered medications, causes an increased anion gap metabolic acidosis through its acid metabolites, L-lactate and D-lactate. An increased osmolal gap accompanies the increased anion gap metabolic acidosis seen with propylene glycol. This patient's clinical history and lack of lactic acidosis are not consistent with propylene glycol toxicity.
Salicylate toxicity most commonly presents in adults as respiratory alkalosis or with features of both respiratory alkalosis and increased anion gap metabolic acidosis. This patient has appropriate respiratory compensation for the metabolic acidosis, not respiratory alkalosis, making salicylate toxicity unlikely.

**Bibliography**

Fenves AZ, Kirkpatrick HM 3rd, Patel VV, Sweetman L, Emmett M. Increased anion gap metabolic acidosis as a result of 5-oxoproline (pyroglutamic acid): a role for acetaminophen. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2006;1:441-7. PMID: 17699243

This content was last updated in August 2018.