
### Correct Answer: B) Intra-abdominal pressure measurement 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose abdominal compartment syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Abdominal compartment syndrome is defined as a sustained intra-abdominal pressure &gt;20 mm Hg associated with at least one organ dysfunction; management includes supportive therapy, abdominal compartment decompression, and correction of positive fluid balance.

The most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next is intra-abdominal pressure (IAP) measurement. This patient's findings are consistent with abdominal compartment syndrome, which occurs in the setting of abdominal surgery, large volume fluid resuscitation, and multiple transfusions. It can manifest as a distended abdomen, ascites, and sodium-avid acute kidney injury (AKI). The increased IAP causes direct compression of renal parenchyma and vasculature, resulting in oliguria and decreased glomerular filtration rate. The diagnosis of abdominal compartment syndrome is made by an IAP measurement >20 mm Hg and new organ dysfunction. Indirect measurement of IAP can be with intragastric, intracolonic, intravesical (bladder), or inferior vena cava catheters. Management includes supportive therapy, abdominal compartment decompression, and correction of positive fluid balance.
The increased specific gravity, low urine sodium, and presence of hyaline casts are consistent with a prerenal AKI. The fractional excretion of sodium would not provide any additional information to aid in the diagnosis.
Myoglobin is a heme pigment–containing protein that can cause AKI. The urine is reddish brown, pigmented casts are present, and the urine dipstick is positive for blood in the absence of erythrocytes. Abdominal compartment syndrome is a much more likely cause of this patient's AKI, and urine myoglobin levels do not need to be measured.
The patient is on a cephalosporin, which can cause acute interstitial nephritis (AIN). AIN is characterized by hematuria, pyuria, and/or leukocyte casts. However, the timing is too soon for AIN (unless the patient had been previously exposed), and the urine findings do not support it. Moreover, the urine eosinophil stain is neither sensitive nor specific for the diagnosis of AIN and does not need to be performed.

**Bibliography**

Patel DM, Connor MJ Jr. Intra-abdominal hypertension and abdominal compartment syndrome: an underappreciated cause of acute kidney injury. Adv Chronic Kidney Dis. 2016;23:160-6. PMID: 27113692

This content was last updated in August 2018.