
### Correct Answer: A) Cystoscopy 

**Educational Objective:** Identify the cause of nonglomerular hematuria.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with nonglomerular hematuria should be stratified as high, intermediate, or low risk for urothelial cancer using factors that include age, gender, tobacco use, extent of hematuria, exposure to urothelial carcinogens, or chronic irritative voiding symptoms; intermediate- or high-risk patients require imaging of the genitourinary tract and cystoscopy.

Cystoscopy is the most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next in this patient. Hematuria is frequently encountered among adults in ambulatory care. For hematuria incidentally discovered on dipstick evaluation, clinicians should confirm the presence of hematuria with microscopic urinalysis that demonstrates ≥3 erythrocytes/hpf before initiating further evaluation in asymptomatic adults. Clinicians should also pursue evaluation of hematuria even if the patient is receiving antiplatelet or anticoagulant therapy. Macroscopic hematuria should prompt urology referral even if self-limited. Hematuria is most often of nonglomerular origin. If a nephrologic cause of hematuria is not suggested, hematuria may indicate a malignancy. Guidelines from the American Urological Association recommend that patients with hematuria be stratified as high, intermediate, or low risk for urothelial cancer, with subsequent management guided by that risk classification. This 45-year-old man who has no smoking history, no occupational exposure to urothelial carcinogens (such as aniline dye or cyclophosphamide), no chronic irritative voiding symptoms, and 10 to 15 erythrocytes/hpf on urinalysis would be classified as intermediate risk. This patient needs imaging of the genitourinary tract, in particular to rule out renal cell carcinoma, and cystoscopy. Although concurrent evaluation for nephrologic cause of hematuria may be appropriate if there is suspicion kidney disease is the source of hematuria, this patient has no evidence of glomerular disease (no proteinuria or increased serum creatinine) and negative imaging of the upper genitourinary tract.
Kidney biopsy in a patient with hematuria is not indicated in the absence of evidence of glomerular disease or change in kidney function. This patient's normal kidney function and absence of dysmorphic erythrocytes, erythrocyte casts, or proteinuria rules out a significant glomerular process. Furthermore, this patient has no systemic symptoms to suggest systemic lupus erythematosus or other autoimmune disease that would lead to glomerular hematuria. His normal serum creatinine and lack of systemic symptoms make other kidney disease unlikely.
Kidney ultrasonography will provide no additional information in this patient. Doppler is not indicated because the risk of renal vein thrombosis as a cause of hematuria in this patient is not suspected (normal kidney function, no flank pain, and no risk of thrombosis).
Routine cytologic evaluation of urine is no longer recommended in the initial evaluation of asymptomatic microscopic hematuria, and urine markers approved by the FDA for bladder cancer detection are specifically not recommended for patients with hematuria.

**Bibliography**

Davis R, Jones JS, Barocas DA, Castle EP, Lang EK, Leveillee RJ, et al; American Urological Association. Diagnosis, evaluation and follow-up of asymptomatic microhematuria (AMH) in adults. Available at: https://www.auanet.org/guidelines/asymptomatic-microhematuria-(2012-reviewed-for-currency-2016). Accessed December 15, 2017.

This content was last updated in March 2021.