
### Correct Answer: D) Vancomycin 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose vancomycin-induced acute tubular necrosis.

#### **Key Point:** Risk factors associated with vancomycin nephrotoxicity include chronic kidney disease, prolonged therapy, doses ≥4 g/d, trough concentrations &gt;15 mg/L, and concomitant use of loop diuretics.

The most likely cause of this patient's acute kidney injury (AKI) is vancomycin. The most common cause of hospital-acquired AKI is acute tubular necrosis (ATN), which represents damage and destruction of the renal tubular epithelial cells and is most commonly caused by ischemia or toxins. A careful evaluation of hemodynamics, volume status, medications, and physical findings of associated illness can help determine the cause of ATN. Most reported cases of vancomycin toxicity are due to acute interstitial nephritis; however, ATN has been reported. ATN is supported by the rapid rise in serum creatinine, fractional excretion of sodium >2%, and urine microscopy with numerous renal tubular epithelial cells and granular casts. Risk factors associated with vancomycin nephrotoxicity include chronic kidney disease, prolonged therapy, vancomycin doses ≥4 g/d, vancomycin trough concentrations >15 mg/L, and concomitant use of loop diuretics. Early recognition and prompt discontinuation of the drug are essential for renal recovery.
Some antibiotics (such as cefepime) and proton pump inhibitors (such as omeprazole) can cause acute interstitial nephritis (AIN). AIN may be associated with drugs, infection, autoimmune diseases, and malignancy. Only 10% to 30% of patients with AIN have the classic triad of fever, rash, and eosinophilia. Urine chemistries will reveal a variable (and unhelpful) fractional excretion of sodium, and urinalysis is characterized by hematuria, pyuria, and/or leukocyte casts and possibly eosinophiluria. Drug-induced AIN is characterized by a slowly increasing serum creatinine 7 to 10 days after exposure; however, it can occur within 1 day of exposure if the patient has been exposed previously. Drug-induced AIN can also occur months after exposure, as seen with NSAIDs and proton pump inhibitors. The patient's urine findings do not support AIN.
Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) results in ATN with an increase in serum creatinine within 48 hours of exposure. This patient's serum creatinine was at baseline 48 hours after exposure, making CIN an unlikely diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Bamgbola O. Review of vancomycin-induced renal toxicity: an update. Ther Adv Endocrinol Metab. 2016;7:136-47. PMID: 27293542

This content was last updated in August 2018.