
### Correct Answer: B) 100-mL bolus of 3% saline 

**Educational Objective:** Treat acute hyponatremia in a symptomatic patient with hypertonic saline.

#### **Key Point:** Treatment of acute symptomatic hyponatremia includes a 100-mL bolus of 3% saline to increase the serum sodium level by 2 to 3 mEq/L (2-3 mmol/L).

The most appropriate initial treatment is a 100-mL bolus of 3% saline. The hyponatremia in this young woman who presents confused and febrile is most likely due to ingestion of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (ecstasy). Ecstasy is associated with hyponatremia both because it stimulates the release of antidiuretic hormone and because users often drink large quantities of water. When treating hyponatremia, the rate of correction of serum sodium concentration must be carefully considered to avoid the osmotic demyelination syndrome. Brain cells adapt to chronic hyponatremia by reducing intracellular concentration of organic osmolytes, such as myoinositol, to cope with hypotonicity. Acute hyponatremia is associated with an increase in brain water and cerebral edema and should be treated rapidly. Because the brain has not adapted to the hypotonic environment by the release of organic osmolytes, the risk of rapid correction and development of osmotic demyelination is absent. Treatment is with a bolus of 3% saline, and a 100-mL bolus should raise the serum sodium level by 2 to 3 mEq/L (2-3 mmol/L). If symptoms persist, this can be repeated one to two times.
In patients with neurologic symptoms, fluid restriction by itself is not an appropriate treatment. The immediate goal is to reduce brain swelling rapidly by the acutely raising the serum sodium level. Even in cases of chronic hyponatremia, the serum sodium can be increased acutely by 2 to 3 mEq/L (2-3 mmol/L) as long as the total change in the serum sodium is <10 mEq/L (10 mmol/L) in a 24-hour period. Except in cases of hypovolemic hyponatremia, the use of 0.9% sodium chloride is not recommended. In patients who are not volume depleted and have syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion with a fixed urine osmolality, the infused saline can be excreted in the urine in a smaller volume, and thus the serum sodium can actually fall.
Both oral urea and tolvaptan are appropriate treatments for chronic hyponatremia, but they do not raise the serum sodium rapidly enough to reverse neurologic abnormalities and are therefore inappropriate for treatment of acute hyponatremia in this symptomatic patient.

**Bibliography**

Sterns RH. Disorders of plasma sodium–causes, consequences, and correction. N Engl J Med. 2015;372:55-65. PMID: 25551526

This content was last updated in August 2018.