
### Correct Answer: C) Renal artery imaging 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose fibromuscular dysplasia as the cause of secondary hypertension.

#### **Key Point:** Renal artery imaging is the most appropriate diagnostic test to evaluate for fibromuscular dysplasia in a young woman with new-onset hypertension.

Renal artery imaging is the most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next to evaluate for fibromuscular dysplasia in this young woman with new-onset hypertension. Fibromuscular dysplasia is a nonatherosclerotic form of renovascular disease that usually affects the mid and distal portions of the renal artery. This disorder usually occurs in young persons, particularly young women, and abrupt onset of hypertension in a patient under the age of 35 years is suggestive. The elevation of serum creatinine more than 30% from baseline after the initiation of an ACE inhibitor is a clue that renovascular hypertension may be present. Fibromuscular dysplasia is associated with aneurysm and/or dissection in a variety of vascular territories (for example, renal artery, carotid artery, and intracranial arteries). This has resulted in a recommendation that patients with fibromuscular dysplasia undergo one-time, head-to-pelvic cross-sectional imaging.
The importance of primary aldosteronism as a cause of hypertension is being increasingly recognized. Testing for primary aldosteronism should be considered in all patients with difficult-to-control hypertension. It should also be performed in patients with hypertension and an incidentally noted adrenal mass, spontaneous hypokalemia, or diuretic-induced hypokalemia. In these cases, the plasma aldosterone concentration/plasma renin activity ratio is obtained. Primary aldosteronism cannot account for this patient's renal bruit or serum creatinine elevation after the initiation of an ACE inhibitor.
Plasma fractionated metanephrines are obtained to screen for a pheochromocytoma. The absence of episodic palpitations, headaches, and tachycardia as well as the presence of an abdominal bruit make pheochromocytoma a less likely diagnosis.
Transthoracic echocardiography can be used for patients with clinical suspicion for white coat hypertension and/or to evaluate for end-organ damage. There are no pertinent findings from the history, physical examination, or electrocardiogram results to raise clinical suspicion for end-organ damage. More importantly, echocardiography will not be helpful in diagnosing the cause of this patient's hypertension or directing its treatment.

**Bibliography**

Olin JW, Gornik HL, Bacharach JM, Biller J, Fine LJ, Gray BH, et al; American Heart Association Council on Peripheral Vascular Disease. Fibromuscular dysplasia: state of the science and critical unanswered questions: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association. Circulation. 2014;129:1048-78. PMID: 24548843

This content was last updated in August 2018.