
### Correct Answer: A) Cardiac catheterization 

**Educational Objective:** Treat acute coronary syndrome in a patient with chronic kidney disease.

#### **Key Point:** The available data suggest that routine invasive management of coronary artery disease is associated with a statistically significant reduction in death, acute myocardial infarction, and rehospitalization, across most categories of chronic kidney disease.

The most appropriate management for this patient with stage G4 chronic kidney disease (CKD) and ST-elevation myocardial infarction is immediate cardiac catheterization. Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death among patients with CKD. The risk of cardiovascular-related death in patients with CKD stages G3 and G4 is four to five times higher than the risk of progression to end-stage kidney disease. Mortality risk increases with decreasing estimated glomerular filtration rate and increasing albuminuria. Unfortunately, many clinical trials that guide the prevention or treatment of cardiovascular disease have not included patients with advanced CKD, and the findings may not be generalizable to patients with CKD. However, the recommendation from experts is to offer patients with CKD therapy for cardiovascular disease, including cardiac catheterization, percutaneous coronary intervention, and coronary bypass. The available data suggest that routine invasive management is associated with a statistically significant reduction in death, acute myocardial infarction, and rehospitalization, across most categories of CKD, at the predictable price of a significant increase in major and minor bleeding. Prognosis for patients following myocardial infarction, percutaneous intervention, and coronary artery bypass surgery is worse for patients with CKD than for those without CKD.
Suspected coronary anomalies, such as anomalous coronary origins, can be evaluated by cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging. CMR imaging is not a practical modality for patients with acute coronary syndrome because of the time necessary to generate the images and inability to provide revascularization therapy. In addition, CMR uses gadolinium contrast, which is associated with the development of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis in patients with CKD.
Studies have examined the potential efficacy of precatheterization dialysis to reduce the risk of contrast-induced nephropathy in patients with advanced CKD. The balance of the data suggests no benefit for this invasive maneuver, and it generally is not advocated.
This patient has acute coronary syndrome, and avoiding cardiac catheterization and potential intervention to treat this life-threatening condition in lieu of medical management will not be in the patient's best interest, regardless of the risk for contrast-induced nephropathy.

**Bibliography**

Lingel JM, Srivastava MC, Gupta A. Management of coronary artery disease and acute coronary syndrome in the chronic kidney disease population–a review of the current literature. Hemodial Int. 2017;21:472-482. PMID: 28093874

This content was last updated in August 2018.