
### Correct Answer: D) Sodium bicarbonate 

**Educational Objective:** Treat chronic metabolic acidosis in a patient with chronic kidney disease.

#### **Key Point:** The Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) guidelines recommend treatment of metabolic acidosis with alkali therapy in patients with chronic kidney disease when the serum bicarbonate is chronically &lt;22 mEq/L (22 mmol/L).

Sodium bicarbonate therapy is the most likely treatment to slow progression of this patient's chronic kidney disease (CKD). Metabolic acidosis frequently occurs in patients with CKD due to defective acid excretion (resulting in reduced bicarbonate generation), most commonly due to impaired ammoniagenesis. Untreated metabolic acidosis can lead to muscle loss and bone loss. In early CKD, metabolic acidosis is typically a normal anion gap hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis. As glomerular filtration rate (GFR) declines, organic and inorganic anions are retained, and an anion gap metabolic acidosis develops. Large observational studies have shown a strong association between lower serum bicarbonate levels and both increased progression of CKD and mortality. Alkali therapy, most commonly sodium bicarbonate or sodium citrate, can delay the progression of CKD. Therefore, the Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) guidelines recommend starting alkali therapy when the serum bicarbonate is chronically <22 mEq/L (22 mmol/L). The alkali salt therapy dose should be titrated to achieve a serum bicarbonate level within the normal range; excessive alkali therapy in the setting of a reduced GFR may induce a metabolic alkalosis, which is associated with increased mortality. Patients with CKD who are treated with alkali should be monitored for symptoms of volume overload.
Blood pressure control, particularly with renin-angiotensin system agents, has been shown to slow progression of proteinuric renal diseases and especially diabetes mellitus. However, this patient is already taking an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), and dual therapy with an ACE inhibitor and an ARB may instead be detrimental because studies of dual blockade have shown increased risks of acute kidney disease and hyperkalemia.
As the estimated GFR declines below 30 mL/min/1.73 m2 (stages G4-G5), anemia can become symptomatic. Erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) are highly effective in raising hemoglobin concentrations and alleviating symptoms but have not been shown to slow progression of CKD. These agents are associated with risks and are expensive. Black box warnings for use of ESAs include the risk of increased mortality and/or tumor progression in patients with active malignancy, increased risk of thromboembolic events for postsurgical patients not on anticoagulant therapy, and increased risk of serious cardiovascular events when ESAs are administered to patients with hemoglobin values >11 g/dL (110 g/L).
Although poorly controlled hyperphosphatemia is associated with a greater risk of CKD progression, optimizing mineral metabolism parameters with a phosphate binder has not been shown to slow progression of CKD.

**Bibliography**

Kraut JA, Madias NE. Metabolic acidosis of CKD: an update. Am J Kidney Dis. 2016;67:307-17. PMID: 26477665

This content was last updated in August 2018.