
### Correct Answer: A) Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy 

**Educational Objective:** Manage large kidney stones with extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy.

#### **Key Point:** Urologic intervention is required in all patients with evidence of infection, acute kidney injury, intractable nausea or pain, and stones that fail to pass or are unlikely to pass.

The most appropriate next step in management is extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. Acute management of symptomatic nephrolithiasis is aimed at pain management and facilitation of stone passage. Pain can be relieved by NSAIDs and opioids as needed. Combination NSAID and opioid therapy seems more effective than treatment with either one alone. Stone passage decreases with increasing size of the stone. Only 50% of stones >6 mm will pass spontaneously, whereas stones >10 mm are extremely unlikely to pass spontaneously. Urologic intervention is required in all patients with evidence of infection, acute kidney injury, intractable nausea or pain, and stones that fail to pass or are unlikely to pass. This patient has an 11-mm stone that is at the ureteral pelvic junction. There is associated dilation of the renal calyces suggesting obstruction to urine outflow. It is unlikely that a stone this size will pass. Appropriate management therefore is urology consultation. The patient will most likely require extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy or percutaneous nephrolithotomy. Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy can be used for stones in the renal pelvis and proximal ureter, but it is less effective for stones located in the mid/distal ureter or the lower pole calyx, larger stones (>15 mm), and hard stones (calcium oxalate monohydrate or cystine). Potential complications of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy include incomplete stone fragmentation, kidney injury, and possibly increased blood pressure or new-onset hypertension.
Treatment of uncomplicated renal colic with analgesia and maintenance intravenous fluids is just as efficacious as with forced hydration with regard to patient pain perception and opioid use. Moreover, it appears the state of hydration has little impact on stone passage. This patient may require intravenous fluids to avoid dehydration if pain and nausea prevent adequate oral fluid intake, but not as a means to expel the kidney stone.
Stones up to 10 mm can be managed conservatively, although the likelihood of spontaneous passage decreases with increasing size. Medical expulsive therapy with α-blocker therapy (such as tamsulosin) or a calcium channel blocker (such as nifedipine) can aid the passage of small stones (≤10 mm in diameter). This large stone associated with probable obstruction is not a candidate for medical expulsive therapy with either tamsulosin or nifedipine.

**Bibliography**

Lawler AC, Ghiraldi EM, Tong C, Friedlander JI. Extracorporeal shock wave therapy: current perspectives and future directions. Curr Urol Rep. 2017;18:25. PMID: 28247327

This content was last updated in August 2018.