
### Correct Answer: C) Sarcoidosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose sarcoidosis with kidney involvement.

#### **Key Point:** Kidney involvement in sarcoidosis can manifest as nephrocalcinosis from hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria, and as tubulointerstitial nephritis with granuloma formation.

The most likely diagnosis is sarcoidosis, a systemic inflammatory disease that can affect multiple organs. The most common presentations of sarcoidosis are hilar lymphadenopathy and parenchymal lung disease; common extrapulmonary organ involvement includes the skin, joints, and eyes. More than 90% of patients with kidney involvement have thoracic sarcoid identified on chest radiograph. Kidney manifestations in sarcoidosis are common and include nephrocalcinosis from hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria, nephrolithiasis, and chronic interstitial nephritis with granuloma formation. Hypercalcemia occurs due to peripheral conversion of 25-hydroxyvitamin D to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D by activated macrophages. Parathyroid hormone is typically suppressed in response to the hypercalcemia. The urinalysis is typical of other chronic tubulointerstitial diseases and can be normal or show only sterile pyuria or mild proteinuria, as in this patient's case. Kidney manifestations of hypercalcemia and interstitial nephritis are treated with glucocorticoids.
Thiazide diuretics can be associated with a mild hypercalcemia but not nephrocalcinosis. Furthermore, they decrease urinary calcium excretion. This patient's urinary calcium excretion is increased.
Primary hyperparathyroidism is characterized by hypercalcemia, hypophosphatemia, and inappropriately normal or elevated parathyroid hormone. This patient's parathyroid hormone is suppressed, making this an unlikely diagnosis.
Increased levels of calcium absorption from the gut can be from markedly high vitamin D levels. Vitamin D intoxication is usually defined as a value >150 ng/mL (374.4 nmol/L). Vitamin D intoxication is not consistent with the laboratory findings because the phosphorus and 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels are normal.
Finally, thiazide diuretic use, primary hyperparathyroidism, or vitamin D intoxication cannot account for the patient's pulmonary findings.

**Bibliography**

Löffler C, Löffler U, Tuleweit A, Waldherr R, Uppenkamp M, Bergner R. Renal sarcoidosis: epidemiological and follow-up data in a cohort of 27 patients. Sarcoidosis Vasc Diffuse Lung Dis. 2015;31:306-15. PMID: 25591142

This content was last updated in August 2018.