
### Correct Answer: D) Rosuvastatin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat dyslipidemia in a patient with stage G4 chronic kidney disease.

#### **Key Point:** The Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) guidelines recommend treatment of dyslipidemia with a statin in patients aged ≥50 years with an estimated glomerular filtration rate &lt;60 mL/min/1.73 m2, but not treated with chronic dialysis or kidney transplantation.

A statin is appropriate to treat dyslipidemia in this patient with stage G4 chronic kidney disease (CKD). Guidelines from the Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) group provide a grade 1A recommendation to treat adults aged ≥50 years with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) <60 mL/min/1.73 m2, but not treated with chronic dialysis or kidney transplantation (GFR categories G3a-G5), with a statin or statin/ezetimibe combination. This recommendation largely emanates from results of the Study of Heart and Renal Protection (SHARP) trial, which included 9270 participants with CKD (mean eGFR, 27 mL/min/1.73 m2) who received simvastatin 20 mg plus ezetimibe 10 mg daily or placebo and were followed for 5 years. Statin plus ezetimibe therapy led to a significant 17% reduction in the relative hazard of the primary outcome of major atherosclerotic events (coronary death, myocardial infarction, nonhemorrhagic stroke, or any revascularization) compared with placebo (HR, 0.83; 95% CI, 0.74–0.94), driven by significant reductions in nonhemorrhagic stroke and coronary revascularization. It should be noted that simvastatin plus ezetimibe did not reduce the risk of progression to end-stage kidney disease. In addition, the 2018 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Guideline on the Management of Blood Cholesterol indicates that it is reasonable to initiate a moderate-intensity statin with or without ezetimibe in adults 40 to 75 years of age with CKD, an LDL cholesterol level of 70 to 189 mg/dL (1.7 to 4.8 mmol/L), and a 10-year atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk of ≥7.5%. The guideline recommends against initiating statin therapy in patients on dialysis, but it may be reasonable to continue statins in patients who are beginning dialysis therapy for advanced kidney disease.
Hypertriglyceridemia is the primary lipid abnormality in patients with CKD. However, the 2013 KDIGO update states that the evidence supporting the safety and efficacy of fibrates (such as gemfibrozil) is extremely weak, especially in patients with CKD. Therefore, KDIGO does not recommend fibrates for the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia. Finally, in patients taking a statin for dyslipidemia, the addition of a fibrate increases the risk of myalgia, muscle injury, and rhabdomyolysis.
Although niacin raises HDL cholesterol, several trials involving patients with and without CKD have demonstrated no evidence of improvement in cardiovascular events.
Although randomized controlled trials of omega-3 fatty acids have demonstrated a reduction in cardiovascular disease end points in persons with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD), little to no data demonstrate the role for the benefits of omega-3 fatty acids for the primary prevention of ASCVD in patients at high cardiovascular disease risk.

**Bibliography**

Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) Lipid Work Group. KDIGO clinical practice guideline for lipid management in chronic kidney disease. Kidney inter., Suppl. 2013;3:259–305. Available at www.kdigo.org.

This content was last updated in May 2019.