
### Correct Answer: D) Noncontrast helical abdominal CT 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose nephrolithiasis with noncontrast helical abdominal CT.

#### **Key Point:** Noncontrast helical CT is the gold standard for diagnosis of nephrolithiasis.

Noncontrast helical abdominal CT is the most appropriate next test for this patient with nephrolithiasis suggested by unilateral flank pain and hematuria. Ultrasonography is an appropriate initial diagnostic test for suspected nephrolithiasis; it is easily available, safe, and relatively inexpensive, and it is the study of choice in pregnant women. Ultrasonography can demonstrate hydronephrosis, kidney size and cortical thickness, echogenicity, and the presence of cysts and tumors. It is useful for uncomplicated nephrolithiasis; a positive ultrasound may be adequate for initial diagnosis. Ultrasonography is less useful in evaluating diseases of the mid or distal ureter, including stones. Furthermore, the absence of hydronephrosis on ultrasound does not rule out kidney stones. Noncontrast helical CT is the gold standard for diagnosis of nephrolithiasis and is appropriate for evaluating renal colic. Most stones can be detected, including small stones and those in the distal ureter not detected on ultrasound. It may provide information regarding stone composition and, because the entire urinary tract and abdomen are visualized, alternative diagnoses may be suggested.
MRI with contrast is not as sensitive as CT in detecting suspected kidney stones. Due to lack of radiation, MRI may be useful in pregnant women with stone disease if ultrasound is nondiagnostic.
Contrast abdominal CT characterizes renal tumors and cysts, whereas CT urography is the preferred test for patients with unexplained urologic/nonglomerular hematuria. The decision to use contrast depends on the clinical scenario, the patient's risk factors for contrast-induced nephropathy, and the availability and utility of alternative imaging modalities. It is unnecessary in the evaluation of suspected nephrolithiasis and poses greater risk and cost in this situation compared with either ultrasonography or noncontrast helical abdominal CT.
Plain abdominal radiography has limited utility due to its inability to detect radiolucent uric acid stones and does not provide as much anatomic information as other modalities. However, it may be useful in assessing stone burden in patients with known radiopaque stones but is not the initial test of choice for acute nephrolithiasis.

**Bibliography**

Brisbane W, Bailey MR, Sorensen MD. An overview of kidney stone imaging techniques. Nat Rev Urol. 2016;13:654-662. PMID: 27578040

This content was last updated in August 2018.