
### Correct Answer: B) Add hydrochlorothiazide 

**Educational Objective:** Manage recurrent stone disease with hydrochlorothiazide.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with hypercalciuria and kidney stones, calcium excretion and stone formation can be decreased by the use of thiazide diuretics.

The most appropriate next step to decrease this patient's stone recurrence is to add a thiazide diuretic such as hydrochlorothiazide. Hypercalciuria is the most common metabolic risk factor for calcium oxalate stones. In patients with hypercalcemia, increased filtered calcium results in hypercalciuria. However, hypercalciuria is often idiopathic and commonly familial, occurring without associated hypercalcemia. Hypercalciuria due to hypercalcemia is treated by addressing the cause of increased serum calcium. In patients with other forms of hypercalciuria, thiazide diuretics reduce calcium excretion in the urine by inducing mild hypovolemia, triggering increased proximal sodium reabsorption and passive calcium reabsorption. This effect can be enhanced by the addition of sodium restriction.
The patient's evaluation reveals a normal uric acid concentration. In calcium stones that form on a uric acid nidus, allopurinol has been associated with a decrease in stone formation. In this patient, however, stone analysis did not reveal a uric acid core and thus would not be the next step in management.
Urinary citrate inhibits stone formation by binding calcium in the tubular lumen, preventing it from precipitating with oxalate. Hypocitraturia is seen with diets high in animal protein and metabolic acidosis from chronic diarrhea, renal tubular acidosis, ureteral diversion, and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (including seizure medications such as topiramate). The patient's urine citrate level is in the high-normal range, and the serum bicarbonate level is normal, thus increasing citrate in the urine would not be beneficial.
Although increasing urine volume will reduce the calcium saturation, the present urine volume is acceptable. Urine volume to prevent stone recurrence should be between 2500 and 3000 mL per day.
Recommending a low calcium diet is inappropriate for this patient because reducing calcium in the diet would provide less calcium in the gastrointestinal tract to bind oxalate and would increase oxalate absorption, and thus increase urine oxalate concentration and stone formation.

**Bibliography**

Qaseem A, Dallas P, Forciea MA, et al; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the American College of Physicians. Dietary and pharmacologic management to prevent recurrent nephrolithiasis in adults: a clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians. Ann Intern Med. 2014;161:659-67. PMID: 25364887

This content was last updated in August 2018.