
### Correct Answer: B) Obtain MR angiography of the brain 

**Educational Objective:** Screen for intracranial cerebral aneurysms in a patient with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.

#### **Key Point:** Screening for intracranial cerebral aneurysms using CT or MR angiography is recommended for patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.

MR angiography of the brain is the most appropriate next step in management. This patient has autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), a genetic kidney disease characterized by enlarged kidneys with multiple cysts. Intracranial cerebral aneurysms are detected in 5% to 10% of patients with ADPKD and have a strong familial pattern. Guidelines for the Management of Patients with Unruptured Intracranial Aneurysms from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association recommend that patients with a history of ADPKD, particularly those with a family history of intracranial aneurysm but even those without such history, should be offered screening by CT angiography or MR angiography. This is a class I recommendation (should be performed because benefit greatly exceeds risk) based on level B evidence (data derived from a single randomized trial or nonrandomized studies).
Mitral valve prolapse is an extrarenal manifestation seen in some patients with ADPKD, but screening with echocardiography should be limited to patients with findings of this valvular disorder, including chest pain, shortness of breath, edema, a systolic click(s) that is mobile (timing changes with squatting and standing), and a systolic murmur.
Blood pressure control is recommended to slow progression in ADPKD, but the utility of doing so in someone with low baseline blood pressures is unproven. The agent of choice when blood pressure medications are used in ADPKD is a blocker of the renin-angiotensin system and not a calcium channel blocker.
Vasopressin blockade with tolvaptan in patients with ADPKD has been shown in two randomized clinical trials to delay the need for dialysis from 6 to 9 years. Tolvaptan carries an FDA-mandated safety warning about the possibility of irreversible liver injury. Tolvaptan has not been approved for use in ADPKD in the United States.

**Bibliography**

Chapman AB, Devuyst O, Eckardt KU, Gansevoort RT, Harris T, Horie S, et al; Conference Participants. Autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD): executive summary from a Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) Controversies Conference. Kidney Int. 2015;88:17-27. PMID: 25786098

This content was last updated in March 2020.