
### Correct Answer: E) No additional management at this time 

**Educational Objective:** Manage primary membranous glomerulopathy.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with newly diagnosed primary membranous glomerulopathy are usually observed for 6 to 12 months while on conservative therapy (renin-angiotensin blockade, cholesterol-lowering medication, and edema management) to allow time for possible spontaneous remission before initiating immunosuppression.

An ACE inhibitor and statin are appropriate for this patient with recently diagnosed primary membranous glomerulopathy. His kidney biopsy findings are consistent with the diagnosis, and the presence of anti–phospholipase A2 receptor (PLA2R) antibodies has been shown to approach 100% specificity for the primary form of this disease. Approximately one third of patients with primary membranous glomerulopathy experience a spontaneous remission of disease over the first 6 to 24 months without immunosuppression. Therefore, within the first 6 months of diagnosis, barring signs of severe complications of the nephrotic syndrome (such as kidney failure, anasarca, or deep vein thrombosis), the recommended strategy is to treat patients with primary membranous glomerulopathy conservatively with renin-angiotensin system blockers, cholesterol-lowering medications (if cholesterol is above goal), and diuretics (for edema). The patient is then monitored with examinations and laboratory studies to gauge for spontaneous remission. If proteinuria increases in 6 to 12 months, a course of immunosuppression should be considered for those with persistent nephrotic-range proteinuria. With the advent of serologic testing for anti-PLA2R antibodies, these titers can now be followed during the observation period alongside traditional clinical parameters, such as proteinuria. Falling anti-PLA2R titers are associated with remission, whereas persistently high titers are associated with ongoing disease activity.
Alternating months of glucocorticoids and alkylating agents is first-line immunosuppressive therapy of choice for primary membranous glomerulopathy, and substituting with a calcineurin inhibitor such as cyclosporine is now considered a viable alternative for patients with contraindications to alkylating agents. However, utilization of such immunosuppressive therapies at this point is premature and runs the risk of treating a patient who may remit spontaneously.
Although hepatitis B and C virus infections, along with lupus, are well-known forms of secondary membranous glomerulopathy in adults, this patient's screening tests are negative and, with PLA2R antibody positivity, further testing is unnecessary.

**Bibliography**

Couser WG. Primary membranous nephropathy. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2017;12:983-997. PMID: 28550082 doi:10.2215/CJN.11761116

This content was last updated in August 2018.