
### Correct Answer: A) Begin lisinopril 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hypertension in a patient with atherosclerotic renovascular disease.

#### **Key Point:** In most patients with renal artery stenosis, the primary therapeutic intervention is medical management, including correction of modifiable cardiovascular risk factors.

The most appropriate next step in management is to begin lisinopril. The patient most likely has atherosclerotic renovascular disease, given his age, diminished pulses, and resistant hypertension despite treatment with four antihypertensive medications, including a diuretic. Most patients with renovascular disease have atherosclerosis (>90%). In this patient, medical therapy should be optimized to include treatment of underlying cardiovascular risk factors such as hypercholesterolemia and addition of an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) for blood pressure control. Kidney function should be checked 2 weeks after the addition of an ACE inhibitor or ARB to ensure that the serum creatinine does not increase, and the ACE inhibitor or ARB can be continued if there is not a >25% rise in the serum creatinine from baseline.
Although renal angiography is the gold standard for diagnosis of renovascular disease, it is not recommended as a routine test due to adverse risks such as contrast nephropathy and cholesterol emboli. It is undertaken only if an intervention to correct a discovered stenosis is planned. However, medical therapy is recommended for most adults with atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis.
Three randomized controlled trials (STAR, ASTRAL, and CORAL) failed to show that renal artery angioplasty confers additional benefit above optimal medical therapy for patients with atherosclerotic renovascular disease who have stable kidney function. Patients who may benefit from percutaneous angioplasty and stenting or surgical intervention include those who present with a short hypertension duration; fail medical therapy; or have severe hypertension or recurrent flash pulmonary edema, refractory heart failure, acute kidney injury following treatment with an ACE inhibitor or ARB, or progressive impaired kidney function. In patients who have an indication for renal artery revascularization, surgery is preferred only for those with complex anatomic lesions such as aneurysm or aortoiliac occlusive disease.

**Bibliography**

Cooper CJ, Murphy TP, Cutlip DE, Jamerson K, Henrich W, Reid DM, et al; CORAL Investigators. Stenting and medical therapy for atherosclerotic renal-artery stenosis. N Engl J Med. 2014;370:13-22. PMID: 24245566

This content was last updated in August 2018.