
### Correct Answer: B) Administer intravenous isotonic fluids before and after cardiac catheterization 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent contrast-induced nephropathy in a patient with chronic kidney disease.

#### **Key Point:** Intravenous isotonic fluids are the mainstay in preventing contrast-induced nephropathy.

Intravenous isotonic fluid (0.9% sodium chloride or 1.26% sodium bicarbonate) administered before and after cardiac catheterization is the most appropriate preventive measure for this patient with chronic kidney disease (CKD) who is at risk for contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN). CIN is now recognized as a distinct subset of contrast associated nephropathy (CAN), a common cause of acute kidney injury in the hospital. Patients can be exposed to iodinated intravenous contrast during cardiac catheterization, angiography, and CT. Contrast agents are thought to cause acute tubular necrosis through renal vasoconstriction and direct cytotoxicity; however, the mechanisms are not completely understood. Risk factors for both CAN and CIN include advanced age, diabetic nephropathy, multiple myeloma, concomitant use of nephrotoxins (for example, aminoglycoside antibiotics, NSAIDs), severity of CKD, reduced renal perfusion (due to poor cardiac function or volume depletion), higher dose of contrast, high osmolar contrast (rarely used in industrialized contrast), repeated doses of contrast, and intra-arterial administration. Intravenous isotonic fluids (1-1.5 mL/kg/h 3 to 4 hours before the procedure and continued for 6 to 12 hours) are the mainstay in preventing CIN and perform better than hypotonic fluids. However, among isotonic fluids, evidence does not support the superiority of any one particular fluid when comparing normal saline with sodium bicarbonate. Intravenous fluids should not be given to prevent CIN in patients who are hypervolemic.
Furosemide before catheterization is incorrect because diuresis would induce volume contraction, activate the renal angiotensin-aldosterone system, and increase the risk for CIN.
Oral bicarbonate does not have a role in the prevention of CIN, as studies using alkali therapy looked at intravenous forms only. However, intravenous infusion of 1.26% sodium bicarbonate is as efficacious in preventing CIN as is 0.9% sodium chloride infusion.
This patient has no indications for renal replacement therapy. Hemodialysis does not improve CIN outcomes but rather may exacerbate kidney injury.

**Bibliography**

Fähling M, Seeliger E, Patzak A, Persson PB. Understanding and preventing contrast-induced acute kidney injury. Nat Rev Nephrol. 2017;13:169-180. PMID: 28138128

This content was last updated in October 2020.