
### Correct Answer: B) Type 1 (hypokalemic distal) renal tubular acidosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose type 1 (hypokalemic distal) renal tubular acidosis.

#### **Key Point:** Type 1 (hypokalemic distal) renal tubular acidosis is due to a defect in urine acidification in the distal nephron and is characterized by a normal anion gap metabolic acidosis, positive urine anion gap, inability to acidify urine below a pH of 6.0, and potassium wasting.

The most likely cause of this patient's laboratory findings is type 1 (hypokalemic distal) renal tubular acidosis (RTA). It is due to a defect in urine acidification in the distal nephron and is most commonly caused by decreased activity of the proton pump in collecting duct intercalated-A cells. Because of the inability to excrete hydrogen ions, patients develop a metabolic acidosis with compensatory hyperchloremia, resulting in a normal anion gap, which is 8 mEq/L (8 mmol/L) in this patient, and the inability to acidify urine below a pH of 6.0, even in the context of an acidemia. The urine anion gap (using the equation: [Urine Sodium + Urine Potassium] – Urine Chloride) would be positive in this case, reflecting decreased acid excretion in the form of ammonium and chloride. The same defects also cause potassium wasting, and the increased proximal resorption of citrate that occurs with metabolic acidosis leads to hypocitraturia and increased risk of calcium phosphate kidney stones and nephrocalcinosis. This patient most likely has Sjögren syndrome (arthralgia, sicca, parotid gland enlargement) with concomitant interstitial nephritis (echogenicity seen on kidney ultrasound), one of the most common diseases associated with a distal RTA.
Naproxen, as well as other NSAIDs, can cause an interstitial nephritis usually accompanied by acute kidney injury and proteinuria, neither of which is seen in this case.
Type 2 (proximal) RTA involves a proximal tubular defect in reclaiming bicarbonate and is characterized by a normal anion gap metabolic acidosis, hypokalemia, glycosuria (without hyperglycemia), low-molecular-weight proteinuria, and renal phosphate wasting (known as Fanconi syndrome when all features are present). Because distal urine acidification remains intact, the urine pH is usually <5.5 without alkali therapy, and the urine anion gap should be negative, reflecting increased excretion of acid in the form of ammonium and chloride. This patient's high urine pH and absence of other characteristic features make type 2 (proximal) RTA unlikely.
Type 4 (hyperkalemic distal) RTA due to aldosterone deficiency or resistance is associated with hyperkalemia and a urine pH <5.5, neither of which is seen in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Rastegar M, Nagami GT. Non-anion gap metabolic acidosis: a clinical approach to evaluation. Am J Kidney Dis. 2017;69:296-301. PMID: 28029394

This content was last updated in August 2018.