
### Correct Answer: B) 5% dextrose in 0.9% saline 

**Educational Objective:** Treat alcoholic ketoacidosis.

#### **Key Point:** For patients with alcoholic ketoacidosis, 5% dextrose in 0.9% saline is appropriate treatment.

The most appropriate treatment is 5% dextrose in 0.9% saline for this patient who most likely has alcoholic ketoacidosis. Alcoholic ketoacidosis occurs in patients with chronic ethanol abuse, frequently with associated liver disease, and develops following an episode of acute intoxication. This patient has an increased anion gap metabolic acidosis (with an anion gap of 31), and ketoacidosis due to acute ethanol intoxication is the most likely cause. The ethanol level may be low or normal at the time of presentation because ingested ethanol may have already been extensively metabolized. Decreased insulin secretion (as a result of starvation) and increased counter-regulatory hormones cause lipolysis and generation of ketones, such as acetoacetate, which result in the anion gap. The urine in this case shows ketones, although ketone test results may be falsely negative in some cases because the nitroprusside reagent in the ketone assay detects only acetoacetate and the ketone β-hydroxybutyrate may predominate. Treatment with dextrose will increase insulin and decrease glucagon secretion, while saline will repair any volume deficit; the combination will correct ketoacidosis. In patients with alcoholism, thiamine should be administered before any glucose-containing solutions to decrease the risk of precipitating Wernicke encephalopathy.
Saline alone will correct the volume deficit, but glucose is needed to stimulate insulin secretion to correct the ketoacidosis.
Although dextrose with sodium bicarbonate may correct the underlying acidosis, there is no indication for additional bicarbonate in treating the ketoacidosis. In addition, alcoholic ketoacidosis may be associated with metabolic alkalosis due to concurrent vomiting. To determine if there is a concomitant metabolic alkalosis present, the corrected bicarbonate can be calculated. The corrected bicarbonate is the difference between the normal bicarbonate concentration and the delta anion gap. The delta anion gap is the difference between the measured anion gap and the normal anion gap. In this case the corrected bicarbonate concentration is 5 mEq/L (5 mmol/L) [24 − (31 − 12)]. Because the measured bicarbonate concentration (10 mEq/L [10 mmol/L]) is greater than the corrected, or expected, bicarbonate concentration, a concomitant metabolic alkalosis is present. Treatment with bicarbonate would be inappropriate.
Insulin treatment is not necessary because dextrose alone will increase insulin levels in patients who do not have diabetes mellitus.

**Bibliography**

Palmer BF, Clegg DJ. Electrolyte disturbances in patients with chronic alcohol-use disorder. N Engl J Med. 2017;377:1368-1377. PMID: 28976856

This content was last updated in August 2018.