
### Correct Answer: A) Add metolazone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat edema associated with the nephrotic syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Edema management in a patient with newly diagnosed nephrotic syndrome starts with a salt-restricted diet and an oral loop diuretic; when loop diuretics have been maximally uptitrated and weight loss/edema control is insufficient, it is often necessary to add a thiazide and/or potassium-sparing diuretic.

Addition of the thiazide diuretic metolazone is the most appropriate treatment. Edema management in a patient with newly diagnosed nephrotic syndrome generally starts with a salt-restricted diet and an oral loop diuretic, with a goal weight loss of 1 to 2 kg (2.2-4.4 lb) per week. Loop diuretics should be uptitrated toward this weight loss goal until a maximal dose is achieved, with close monitoring of electrolytes. It is appropriate for blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, and serum urate to rise slightly (≤10%) with effective diuresis. When oral loop diuretics have been maximally uptitrated, and weight loss and edema control are insufficient, it is often necessary to add a second oral diuretic (a thiazide diuretic and/or potassium-sparing diuretic) that works distal to the loop of Henle, which in this case can be accomplished via the addition of metolazone in this patient taking maximal-dose furosemide.
Loop diuretics are similarly effective when administered at equipotent doses. All loop diuretics have a similar dose-response curve characterized by an increased diuresis as more of the drug is renally excreted and flattening of the curve, at which further increases in dose are not associated with increased drug excretion and resultant diuresis.
Hospitalization for intravenous diuresis should be reserved for patients who have not responded to maximal doses of oral diuretics (that is, loop diuretic and thiazide diuretic) or for patients with severe symptoms of anasarca such as shortness of breath, swelling of genital regions, or gastrointestinal discomfort from ascites.
Repeating lower extremity Doppler ultrasonography is not indicated at this time given this patient's prior negative test results; serum albumin level >2.8 g/dL (28 g/L) (clotting risk in membranous glomerulopathy rises when albumin is ≤2.8 g/dL [28 g/L]); and the symmetric nature of his edema.

**Bibliography**

Kodner C. Diagnosis and management of nephrotic syndrome in adults. Am Fam Physician. 2016;93:479-85. PMID: 26977832

This content was last updated in August 2018.