
### Correct Answer: D) Secondary focal segmental glomerulosclerosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose secondary focal segmental glomerulosclerosis.

#### **Key Point:** Secondary focal segmental glomerulosclerosis is due to hyperfiltration injury in the setting of relatively reduced renal mass; it is classically seen in patients with obesity but also can manifest in those with a history of premature birth or solitary kidney.

Secondary focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) is the most likely diagnosis. FSGS is the most common form of the nephrotic syndrome in black persons. In the United States, FSGS currently accounts for up to 40% of idiopathic (primary) nephrotic syndromes in adults. The pathogenesis of FSGS stems from podocyte injury due to immunologic, genetic, and/or hyperfiltration causes. A large and growing proportion of FSGS cases are considered secondary forms of FSGS due to hyperfiltration injury in the setting of relatively reduced renal mass. The overworking of the glomerulus in this setting leads to adaptive podocyte injury and segmental sclerosis. This hyperfiltration form of FSGS is classically seen in patients with obesity but also can manifest in patients with a history of premature birth or solitary kidney. This patient has two risk factors for the secondary form of FSGS: obesity and a history of premature birth. In addition, her presentation is more typical of a secondary FSGS lesion, with subnephrotic proteinuria and no associated clinical findings. Electron microscopy of her kidney biopsy would be expected to show only mild to moderate effacement of the podocyte's foot processes. An immunologic route to injury is considered the main pathogenic mechanism behind primary forms of FSGS, with leukocytes producing a soluble circulating factor that directly targets podocytes. In such cases, proteinuria tends to be heavy (nephrotic range) with associated hypoalbuminemia, and edema is usually present on physical examination. Electron microscopy of a kidney biopsy with primary FSGS will typically show extensive effacement of the podocyte's foot process.
Diabetic nephropathy is the sequelae of chronic glycemic-induced damage to the glomerulus. On average, it occurs 8 years after the diagnosis of overt diabetes mellitus and is typically associated with other microvascular or macrovascular complications of diabetes. This patient's short history of prediabetes and lack of other microvascular/macrovascular findings makes diabetic nephropathy an unlikely diagnosis.
Lipoprotein glomerulopathy is a rare kidney disease characterized by moderate to severe proteinuria, progressive kidney failure, and distinct histopathologic findings of glomerular capillary dilatation by lipoprotein thrombi. To date, less than 100 cases have been reported in the medical literature, nearly all of which are from East Asian countries (predominantly Japan and China). This patient does not fit the profile for lipoprotein glomerulopathy.
Minimal change glomerulopathy typically presents with the full nephrotic syndrome (proteinuria >3500 mg/24 h, serum albumin usually <3.0 g/dL [30 g/L], hypercholesterolemia, and edema on examination). These findings do not fit this patient's mild presentation.

**Bibliography**

D’Agati VD, Kaskel FJ, Falk RJ. Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. N Engl J Med. 2011;365:2398-411. PMID: 22187987 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1106556

This content was last updated in August 2018.