
### Correct Answer: B) Add losartan 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hypertension in a patient with chronic kidney disease using an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker.

#### **Key Point:** An ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker is an agent of choice for treatment of hypertension in a patient with chronic kidney disease.

The addition of losartan is the most appropriate management. This patient has chronic kidney disease (CKD), given the presence of albuminuria, as well as uncontrolled hypertension. His antihypertensive medication regimen needs to be modified to control his blood pressure to target, given that uncontrolled hypertension will lead to CKD progression. The best option for this patient is to add an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) (such as losartan) or an ACE inhibitor, which are antihypertensive agents of choice in patients with CKD. Several studies have shown that use of an ARB or ACE inhibitor can result in decreased progression of albuminuria and CKD. Addition of losartan will also likely increase his serum potassium back to within normal range.
Adding amlodipine, a calcium channel blocker, is not the most appropriate next step in hypertension management for this patient and should be reserved if treatment with a maximum-tolerated dose of an ACE inhibitor or ARB does not result in blood pressure control.
Adding a low-dose aldosterone antagonist (such as spironolactone or eplerenone) may improve blood pressure control in patients with resistant hypertension. Treatment-resistant hypertension is defined as blood pressure that remains above goal despite concurrent use of three antihypertensive agents of different classes, one of which is a diuretic. Spironolactone is typically the fourth drug added to a three-drug regimen. This patient does not meet the definition of resistant hypertension.
Failure to act on this patient's blood pressure and albuminuria and reevaluating in 3 months misses the opportunity to slow the progression of CKD and albuminuria. In addition, guidelines recommend that adults initiating a new or adjusted drug regimen for hypertension should have a follow-up evaluation of adherence and response to treatment at monthly intervals until control is achieved.

**Bibliography**

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, Casey DE Jr, Collins KJ, Dennison Himmelfarb C, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention, detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Hypertension. 2017. PMID: 29133356

This content was last updated in August 2018.