
### Correct Answer: E) Preeclampsia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose preeclampsia.

#### **Key Point:** Preeclampsia is defined by new-onset hypertension and proteinuria that occurs after 20 weeks of pregnancy; new-onset hypertension with new-onset end-organ damage (such as liver or kidney injury, pulmonary edema, cerebral or visual symptoms, or thrombocytopenia) are also diagnostic.

The most likely diagnosis is preeclampsia. Preeclampsia is defined by new-onset hypertension and proteinuria (≥300 mg/24 h from a timed collection or ≥300 mg/g by urine protein-creatinine ratio) that occurs after 20 weeks of pregnancy. New-onset hypertension with new-onset end-organ damage (such as liver or kidney injury, pulmonary edema, cerebral or visual symptoms, or thrombocytopenia) is also diagnostic of preeclampsia. Severe preeclampsia is identified by persistent systolic blood pressure >160 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure >110 mm Hg and end-organ damage. Thrombocytopenia, liver enzyme elevation, and kidney involvement are all present in this pregnant patient with new-onset hypertension, making preeclampsia the most likely diagnosis.
Chronic hypertension is defined as a systolic blood pressure ≥140 mm Hg or diastolic pressure ≥90 mm Hg starting before pregnancy or before 20 weeks of gestation or persisting longer than 12 weeks' postpartum. In this case, the patient had normal blood pressures earlier in pregnancy.
Eclampsia is the presence of generalized tonic-clonic seizures in women with preeclampsia, which are not present in this patient.
Gestational hypertension first manifests after 20 weeks of pregnancy without proteinuria or other end-organ damage. Seen in 6% of pregnancies, gestational hypertension resolves within 12 weeks of delivery. Hypertension that persists beyond the 12 weeks is considered chronic hypertension. Of those who develop gestational hypertension, 15% to 25% progress to preeclampsia, and the rate increases to up to 50% in women who develop hypertension before 30 weeks. End-organ involvement in this case is inconsistent with gestational hypertension.
HELLP (hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelets) syndrome is a life-threatening state that complicates 10% to 20% of cases of preeclampsia. The cause of HELLP syndrome is unknown, but it may be related to placental factors. However, it likely represents a separate disorder from preeclampsia. The diagnosis requires the presence of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, which is excluded by the normal bilirubin level and peripheral blood smear.

**Bibliography**

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Hypertension in pregnancy. Report of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists' Task Force on Hypertension in Pregnancy. Obstet Gynecol. 2013;122:1122-31. PMID: 24150027

This content was last updated in August 2018.