
### Correct Answer: A) Fabry disease 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Fabry disease.

#### **Key Point:** Fabry disease should be considered as a cause of chronic kidney disease of unknown etiology in young adulthood.

The most likely disease is Fabry disease, an X-linked recessive inborn error of glycosphingolipid metabolism caused by deficiency of α-galactosidase A. The enzyme deficiency leads to defective storage of sphingolipid and progressive endothelial accumulation, causing abnormalities in the skin, eye, kidney, heart, brain, and peripheral nervous system. Typically, the disease begins in childhood with episodes of pain and burning sensations in the hands and feet. These painful episodes can be brought on by exercise, fever, fatigue, or other stressors. In addition, young patients often develop angiokeratomas (violaceous papules with overlying scale), decreased perspiration, and corneal and lens opacities of the eyes. The disease is progressive, and symptoms of kidney, heart, and/or neurologic involvement usually occur between the ages of 30 and 45 years. As an X-linked disorder, males who inherit a mutation in the gene responsible for α-galactosidase always display the disease phenotype. Females, on the other hand, who inherit only one copy of a disease-causing mutation, can show a wide range of clinical manifestations, ranging from asymptomatic carriers to severe heart and kidney failure no different from a hemizygous male's phenotype. This variability is likely due to varying degrees of random inactivation of one copy of the X chromosome in each cell (lyonization). The most common finding of Fabry disease seen in heterozygous females is corneal dystrophy, which occurs in more than half of females. Fabry disease should be considered as a cause of chronic kidney disease of unknown etiology in young adulthood, especially when there is a family history of early end-stage kidney disease or cardiovascular-related death (via myocardial infarction or cerebrovascular accident). Diagnosis can be made via kidney biopsy but also noninvasively with measurement of leukocyte enzymatic activity and subsequent genetic confirmation. Screening for the disease is recommended for family members of affected patients. Enzyme replacement therapy with recombinant human α-galactosidase A is available.
Hereditary nephritis (Alport syndrome), like Fabry disease, can present with kidney failure if diagnosed late but is not associated with abnormalities in the skin or peripheral nervous system.
Medullary cystic kidney disease is a familial form of kidney disease with no known extrarenal symptomatology and usually presents with bland urinary findings.
This degree of kidney failure in a patient with tuberous sclerosis complex would be associated with abnormal kidney imaging, such as angiomyolipomas and cysts, and the classic skin lesions in this condition are hamartoma formations, not angiokeratomas.

**Bibliography**

Pisani A, Visciano B, Imbriaco M, Di Nuzzi A, Mancini A, Marchetiello C, et al. The kidney in Fabry's disease. Clin Genet. 2014;86:301-9. PMID: 24645664

This content was last updated in August 2018.