
### Correct Answer: C) Stone removal 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient with a struvite stone.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with struvite stones require stone removal.

In addition to starting antibiotics, stone removal should be considered to decrease future episodes of urinary tract infections in this patient who has a struvite stone. Struvite stones occur most frequently in older women with chronic urinary tract infections. These stones occur in the presence of urea-splitting bacteria such as Proteus, Klebsiella, or, less frequently, Pseudomonas. These bacteria split urea into ammonium, which markedly increases urine pH (>7.5) and results in the precipitation of magnesium ammonium phosphate (struvite). Struvite stones can form rapidly and commonly produce staghorn calculi (stones that bridge two or more renal calyces). Because bacteria can live within the interstices of the stone, limiting antibiotic access, the only intervention that will decrease recurrent infections is removal of the stone. Although this may be accomplished by means of shock wave lithotripsy, patients often require percutaneous nephrolithotomy and breakup of the stone. A percutaneous nephrostomy tube is often inserted to allow for irrigation and to ensure complete removal of all fragments.
Although antibiotics are needed to treat infection, chronic antibiotic suppression is rarely successful as a primary treatment. Continued use of antibiotics increases the risk of the development of antibiotic resistance.
Pure struvite stones often occur in women who have upper urinary tract infections, but oftentimes other components such as calcium oxalate serve as the initial nidus. Because this nidus may not be among the stone fragments submitted for analysis, it may be missed. It is therefore important that a metabolic evaluation be performed in all patients. If the evaluation reveals decreased levels of urine citrate, potassium citrate can be added. Potassium citrate should not, however, be used empirically.
The urease inhibitor acetohydroxamic acid can decrease stone growth; however, it is associated with significant side effects (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, hallucinations, rash, abdominal discomfort, anemia) and is therefore not recommended as a primary treatment.
The use of acidifying agents such as ammonium chloride rarely is able to achieve acidic urine in patients with urea-splitting bacteria and therefore is not recommended.

**Bibliography**

Marien T, Miller NL. Treatment of the infected stone. Urol Clin North Am. 2015;42:459-72. PMID: 26475943

This content was last updated in August 2018.