
### Correct Answer: C) Kidney biopsy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose monoclonal gammopathy of renal significance with a kidney biopsy.

#### **Key Point:** Monoclonal gammopathy of renal significance is diagnosed in patients who would otherwise meet the criteria for monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance but have an abnormal urinalysis and kidney insufficiency; kidney biopsy confirms the diagnosis.

The most appropriate next diagnostic test is a kidney biopsy. This patient appears to have monoclonal gammopathy of renal significance (MGRS). This is a recently defined set of kidney disorders found in patients who would otherwise meet the criteria for monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance but have an abnormal urinalysis and kidney insufficiency. This patient who otherwise meets the diagnostic criteria for monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance has an active urine sediment and an increase in the serum creatinine level and thus has underlying kidney disease. MGRS is an increasingly recognized disorder, and a kidney biopsy is necessary to make the diagnosis by demonstrating the presence of monoclonal immunoglobulin deposition in the kidney. MGRS can affect the kidney in various ways, including amyloidosis, proliferative glomerulonephritis, immunoglobulin deposition disease, C3 glomerulopathy, and proximal tubulopathy. Kidney manifestations of MGRS are usually caused by deposition of monoclonal light chains. Patients can present with both nephrotic and subnephrotic proteinuria, hematuria, and elevated serum creatinine. Despite not meeting the definition of multiple myeloma, MGRS increases morbidity and, in most cases, should be treated with therapy designed to eliminate or suppress the immunoglobulin clone.
Pauci-immune glomerulonephritis is caused by microscopic vessel vasculitis affecting the kidney, resulting in necrotizing lesions in the glomeruli with few or no immune deposits. The renal lesion may occur with or without systemic vasculitis and is the most common cause of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. Most patients have circulating ANCA directed against neutrophils. Other than proteinuria, this patient has a bland urinalysis that is not consistent with a pauci-immune glomerulonephritis, and testing for ANCA in lieu of a kidney biopsy will not establish a diagnosis.
β2-Microglobulin levels can be helpful as prognostic indicators in myeloma but cannot be used to make a diagnosis of a plasma cell disorder.
Serum free light chains can be used to diagnose myeloma and predict the risk of progression in patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance; however, a kidney biopsy, not serum free light chain determination, will confirm the cause of this patient's kidney disease.

**Bibliography**

Rosner MH, Edeani A, Yanagita M, Glezerman IG, Leung N; American Society of Nephrology Onco-Nephrology Forum. Paraprotein-related kidney disease: diagnosing and treating monoclonal gammopathy of renal significance. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2016;11:2280-2287. PMID: 27526705

This content was last updated in August 2018.