
### Correct Answer: A) Adynamic bone disease 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose adynamic bone disease in a patient with chronic kidney disease.

#### **Key Point:** Adynamic bone disease can occur in patients with chronic kidney disease or those on dialysis and is associated with fracture or bone pain; parathyroid hormone and alkaline phosphatase levels are typically normal.

The most likely bone pathology is adynamic bone disease in this patient with end-stage kidney disease and normal serum calcium and phosphorus and relatively suppressed parathyroid hormone (PTH) and alkaline phosphatase levels. Adynamic bone disease can occur in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) or those on dialysis. It is typically associated with significant vascular calcifications. The gold standard for the diagnosis of adynamic bone disease is bone biopsy; however, this is rarely performed. Adynamic bone disease has no specific markers, but a constellation of findings may suggest this diagnosis. Patients with adynamic bone disease may present with fracture or bone pain. The latter has been attributed to the inability to repair microdamage because of low turnover. Serum calcium may be normal or elevated because the bone is unable to take up calcium. High PTH and alkaline phosphatase would exclude adynamic bone disease; in this disorder, both are typically normal. Treatment is targeted at factors that allow PTH secretion to rise. This includes avoiding calcium-based binders, conservative use of vitamin D, and decreasing the dialysate calcium concentration. It is important to note that, as with the general population, patients with CKD may also develop osteoporosis, particularly if they received glucocorticoid therapy for the primary kidney disorder or for immunosuppression in the setting of a kidney transplant.
β2-Microglobulin–associated amyloidosis is usually seen in patients who have been on dialysis for at least 5 years. This disorder involves osteoarticular sites, and patients may present with carpal tunnel syndrome or shoulder pain. Bone cysts may be visible on radiograph.
Osteitis fibrosa cystica is the classic pathology associated with kidney disease. This disorder is associated with increased bone turnover and elevated PTH and alkaline phosphatase levels. Mixed uremic osteodystrophy has elements of both high and low bone turnover.
Osteomalacia refers to a defect with both low turnover and abnormal mineralization of bone. This disorder can be seen by vitamin D deficiency, but in the past, it was a common complication of aluminum toxicity. This patient's vitamin D level is in the “sufficient range,” and there is no history of aluminum exposure.

**Bibliography**

Carvalho C, Alves CM, Frazão JM. The role of bone biopsy for the diagnosis of renal osteodystrophy: a short overview and future perspectives. J Nephrol. 2016;29:617-26. PMID: 27473148

This content was last updated in August 2018.