
### Correct Answer: C) Increase furosemide 

**Educational Objective:** Treat cardiorenal syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** In cardiorenal syndrome type 1, loop diuretics are first-line therapy for managing volume overload in patients with decompensated heart failure with evidence of peripheral and/or pulmonary edema.

Increasing the furosemide dose is the most appropriate treatment in this patient with cardiorenal syndrome type 1 (CRS1). CRS is a disorder of the heart and kidneys in which acute or long-term dysfunction in one organ induces acute or long-term dysfunction in the other. CRS is characterized by the triad of concomitant decreased kidney function, diuretic-resistant heart failure with congestion, and worsening kidney function during heart failure therapy. CRS1 is defined as a worsening kidney function in patients with acute worsening of cardiac function (decompensated heart failure, acute coronary syndrome, cardiogenic shock). Management is challenging because treatment directed toward improving cardiac function can worsen kidney function. For this patient, an increase to his loop diuretic dose to a sufficient dose to induce a diuresis is appropriate. Among patients with decompensated heart failure, the best outcomes may occur with aggressive fluid removal even if associated with mild to moderate worsening of kidney function. An elevated blood urea nitrogen (BUN)-creatinine ratio should not discourage the use of diuretic therapy in patients with evidence of congestion. The decline in his kidney function with relative increase in BUN-creatinine ratio reflects the CRS1 physiology, rather than volume depletion due to diuresis.
Vasopressin receptor antagonists such as conivaptan can be used for the treatment of patients with hypervolemic or euvolemic hyponatremia. However, there is no evidence that treatment of hyponatremia improves clinical outcomes in patients with severe chronic heart failure.
Dobutamine, as well as milrinone, is used in the management of cardiogenic shock or decompensated acute heart failure with severe impaired left ventricular function and would not be indicated for a patient with preserved ejection fraction.
Ultrafiltration therapy is reserved for patients with severe volume overload refractory to medical management. In the Cardiorenal Rescue Study in Acute Decompensated Heart Failure (Caress-HF) study, the use of a stepwise pharmacologic therapy algorithm was superior to ultrafiltration for the preservation of kidney function at 96 hours, with a similar weight loss between the two strategies.

**Bibliography**

Verbrugge FH, Grieten L, Mullens W. Management of the cardiorenal syndrome in decompensated heart failure. Cardiorenal Med. 2014;4:176-88. PMID: 25737682

This content was last updated in August 2018.