
### Correct Answer: D) Iron supplementation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat anemia associated with chronic kidney disease using iron supplementation.

#### **Key Point:** All patients with chronic kidney disease and anemia should have iron profiles assessed, including transferrin saturation and ferritin levels; treatment target levels are a transferrin saturation level &gt;30% and a serum ferritin level &gt;500 ng/mL (500 µg/L) using either oral or intravenous iron supplementation.

Iron supplementation is the most appropriate treatment for this patient with anemia associated with stage G4 chronic kidney disease (CKD). The prevalence of anemia increases as CKD progresses due to several factors, including impaired erythropoietin production, erythropoietin resistance, and reduced erythrocyte life span. Initial evaluation for the cause of anemia in patients with CKD includes laboratory studies as would be appropriate for patients without CKD. All patients with CKD and anemia should have iron profiles assessed, including total transferrin saturation (serum iron ÷ total iron-binding capacity × 100) and serum ferritin levels. The Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) recommendations suggest maintaining transferrin saturation levels of >30% and serum ferritin levels of >500 ng/mL (500 µg/L) using either oral or intravenous iron supplementation. Patients with stage G3 or G4 CKD can be treated with oral iron supplements but may need parenteral administration if oral iron is not effective. Patients with stage G5 CKD generally do not respond well to oral iron due to impaired gastrointestinal absorption and therefore often need intravenous administration. This patient with stage G4 CKD has iron deficiency and should have iron repletion.
Although blood transfusions are effective at acutely raising the hemoglobin, they are associated with adverse side effects. Specific to the advanced CKD population, blood transfusions should be avoided if possible to prevent HLA sensitization to foreign antigens, which may increase waiting time for kidney transplantation.
A bone marrow biopsy is not indicated because there is no evidence to suggest bone marrow dysfunction. Platelet count and leukocyte count are normal. The low hemoglobin and erythrocyte reticulocyte count reflect the inadequate iron stores. A brisk reticulocytosis should be observed within days of starting iron therapy.
Although many patients with advanced CKD and end-stage kidney disease require an erythropoietin-stimulating agent (ESA), its use is indicated only when the patient has adequate iron stores. Iron deficiency is a common reason for ESA resistance. ESAs take several weeks to achieve full effect and are sometimes started at the same time as parenteral iron. Current KDIGO guidelines recommend consideration of ESAs for patients with CKD and hemoglobin concentrations <10 g/dL (100 g/L). However, it is premature to consider ESA in this patient for she may respond to supplemental iron administration alone with an increase in hemoglobin level.

**Bibliography**

Panwar B, Gutiérrez OM. Disorders of iron metabolism and anemia in chronic kidney disease. Semin Nephrol. 2016;36:252-61. PMID: 27475656

This content was last updated in August 2018.