
### Correct Answer: B) Plasma aldosterone concentration/plasma renin activity ratio 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate for primary hyperaldosteronism as the underlying cause of hypokalemia and resistant hypertension.

#### **Key Point:** Calculation of the plasma aldosterone concentration/plasma renin activity ratio is used to diagnose primary hyperaldosteronism.

The most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next is plasma aldosterone concentration (PAC)/plasma renin activity (PRA) ratio. The patient presents with a triad of resistant hypertension, metabolic alkalosis, and hypokalemia following the addition of a thiazide diuretic, which raises suspicion for primary hyperaldosteronism. Primary hyperaldosteronism, in which aldosterone production cannot be suppressed with sodium loading, is the most common cause of secondary hypertension in middle-aged adults and an important cause of resistant hypertension. Testing for primary hyperaldosteronism is recommended if any of the following are present: resistant hypertension, hypokalemia (spontaneous or substantial, if diuretic induced), incidentally discovered adrenal mass, family history of early-onset hypertension, or stroke at age <40 years. Diuretics should be discontinued prior to testing to assure euvolemia. Calculation of the PAC/PRA ratio is used for screening, with a very high ratio of PAC/PRA suggestive of diagnosis. A positive screening test would reveal a reduced or undetectable PRA or concentration and an inappropriately high (usually >15 ng/dL) PAC, which results in a high PAC/PRA ratio of >20. Confirmatory testing is performed except when initial testing is diagnostic, as in cases of spontaneous hypokalemia with undetectable PRA and PAC (>30 ng/dL [828 pmol/L]). Confirmatory tests include oral and intravenous salt loading and the fludrocortisone suppression and captopril challenge tests.
Kidney ultrasonography with Doppler is performed to diagnose renovascular disease, which can be a secondary cause of hypertension. However, no clinical trials have demonstrated that percutaneous intervention results in improvement of hypertension or lessens kidney deterioration; therefore, diagnostic testing is reserved for patients with otherwise strong indications for this study, such as a young woman with possible fibromuscular dysplasia, but not this patient.
Plasma fractionated metanephrines are obtained to screen for a pheochromocytoma, which could result in hypertension; however, this is a relatively rare diagnosis that cannot explain the patient's current findings, and there are no symptoms or signs (episodic headaches, palpitations) in this patient to indicate pheochromocytoma.
Polysomnography is used to diagnose obstructive sleep apnea, another secondary cause of hypertension. However, clinical suspicion for this diagnosis is low given that it cannot explain the patient's metabolic findings, and the patient does not have obesity and does not present with snoring and daytime sleepiness.

**Bibliography**

Braam B, Taler SJ, Rahman M, Fillaus JA, Greco BA, Forman JP, et al. Recognition and management of resistant hypertension. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2017;12:524-535. PMID: 27895136

This content was last updated in August 2018.