
### Correct Answer: D) Surreptitious vomiting 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose surreptitious vomiting as a cause of metabolic alkalosis.

#### **Key Point:** Saline-responsive metabolic alkalosis typically presents with hypovolemia and a low urine chloride of &lt;15 mEq/L (15 mmol/L); the most common causes are vomiting, nasogastric suction, and diuretic use.

The most likely cause of this patient's metabolic alkalosis is surreptitious vomiting. Metabolic alkalosis is diagnosed by an elevation in serum bicarbonate concentration. This disorder is caused either by a loss of acid or administration or retention of bicarbonate. Conditions that contribute to the maintenance of metabolic alkalosis include volume contraction, ineffective arterial blood volume, hypokalemia, chloride depletion, and decreased glomerular filtration. Laboratory evaluation of metabolic alkalosis is based on urine chloride concentration. Metabolic alkalosis is considered saline responsive when associated with true hypovolemia and responds to correction of the volume deficit with isotonic saline. Saline-responsive metabolic alkalosis presents with a low urine chloride of <15 mEq/L (15 mmol/L); the most common causes are vomiting, nasogastric suction, and diuretic use. Hypokalemia occurs secondarily due to aldosterone elevation and cation loss as the kidney attempts to lose bicarbonate. Although these patients are usually hypovolemic or normovolemic (with normal or low blood pressures), patients with preexisting chronic hypertension may present with high to normal blood pressures.
For those who have a high urine chloride (>15 mEq/L [15 mmol/L]) with elevated blood pressure and hypokalemia and do not appear to be overtly volume overloaded, a mineralocorticoid excess disorder must be considered (saline-resistant metabolic alkalosis). Examples include Cushing syndrome and primary aldosteronism. Neither is a likely diagnosis based on the low urine chloride and absence of hypertension. Rarely, patients with metabolic alkalosis may appear to have clinical features consistent with saline-responsive metabolic alkalosis (normal/low extracellular fluid status, normal/low blood pressure) but have a urine chloride of >15 mEq/L (15 mmol/L). Diuretic use and inherited kidney disorders of sodium and chloride handling, such as Bartter and Gitelman syndromes, can mimic this presentation. These two autosomal recessive genetic disorders of renal sodium and chloride transporters clinically mimic loop diuretic and thiazide diuretic use, respectively. These diagnoses should be considered only after urine diuretic screening.

**Bibliography**

Soifer JT, Kim HT. Approach to metabolic alkalosis. Emerg Med Clin North Am. 2014;32:453-63. PMID: 24766943

This content was last updated in August 2018.