
### Correct Answer: A) IgG4-related disease 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose IgG4-related disease.

#### **Key Point:** Tubulointerstitial nephritis is the most common kidney manifestation of IgG4-related disease and typically presents with pyuria, proteinuria, and elevated serum IgG and IgE levels; kidney imaging may show enlarged kidneys or renal masses.

The patient's decline in kidney function is most likely due to IgG4-related disease, a syndrome that mostly affects middle-aged or older men. Plasma cell–rich tubulointerstitial nephritis (TIN) is the most common kidney manifestation. Other manifestations can include autoimmune pancreatitis, allergic rhinitis, submandibular gland swelling, an elevated antinuclear antibody (ANA) titer, low serum complement levels, elevated serum IgG, elevated serum IgE, and peripheral eosinophilia. Kidney imaging may show enlarged kidneys or renal masses that may present as small peripheral cortical nodules. This patient's urinalysis findings of trace protein and pyuria with progressive decline of kidney function are consistent with TIN. Definitive diagnosis of IgG4-related disease requires a tissue biopsy to demonstrate an infiltrate with IgG4-positive plasma cells. IgG4-related disease is readily treatable with glucocorticoids.
Although elevated ANA titers and hypocomplementemia are seen in lupus, lupus nephritis is usually characterized by proteinuria and a more active urine sediment (dysmorphic erythrocytes and cellular casts). Furthermore, lupus is more common in women and usually manifests at a much earlier age than in this patient.
Sarcoidosis can affect multiple organs and cause TIN. However, sarcoidosis is not associated with autoimmune pancreatitis, hypocomplementemia, elevated serum immunoglobulin levels, or cortical nodules on kidney ultrasound.
Although Sjögren syndrome can affect lacrimal and salivary glands and cause TIN, this patient's constellation of symptoms is more consistent with IgG4-related disease. Dryness of the eyes and mouth is extremely common in Sjögren but not in IgG4-related disease. Allergy symptoms, such as asthma or allergic rhinitis, are rarely seen in Sjögren but are common in IgG4-related disease. Hypocomplementemia and the presence of cortical nodules on kidney ultrasound also favor the diagnosis of IgG4-related disease.

**Bibliography**

Zhang P, Cornell LD. IgG4-related tubulointerstitial nephritis. Adv Chronic Kidney Dis. 2017;24:94-100. PMID: 28284385

This content was last updated in August 2018.