
### Correct Answer: A) Discontinue naproxen 

**Educational Objective:** Identify NSAIDs as a cause of acute kidney injury in a patient with chronic kidney disease.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with chronic kidney disease, NSAIDs are potentially nephrotoxic and a frequent cause of acute kidney injury and should be avoided.

Discontinuation of naproxen is the most appropriate management for this patient with chronic kidney disease (CKD) who has developed acute kidney injury. NSAIDs are one of the most frequently used over-the-counter medications and a mainstay in many pain and inflammatory conditions. However, NSAIDs inhibit cyclooxygenase-1 and cyclooxygenase-2, which decrease vasodilatory prostaglandin production. In patients who are prostaglandin dependent (volume depleted, heart failure, CKD), this decreases renal blood flow and leads to decreased glomerular filtration rate. Patients with CKD are sensitive to the nephrotoxic effects of NSAIDs; therefore, these medications are a frequent cause of acute kidney injury in this patient population. The nephrotoxic effect of NSAIDs is augmented by concomitant use of renin-angiotensin system inhibitors due to concomitant effects on afferent and efferent vascular tone. Discontinuation of naproxen is the best treatment for this patient's acute kidney injury. The American Society of Nephrology recommends the avoidance of NSAIDs, including cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, in patients with CKD due to the risk of worsening kidney function. There are safer treatment alternatives for osteoarthritis (OA). Exercise is among the most important nonpharmacologic treatments for most patients with OA, and evidence for its efficacy is most convincing for knee OA. Because excessive weight contributes to both knee OA risk and symptomatology, measures to promote weight loss are appropriate for patients with overweight and knee OA. Topical NSAIDs may be a safer, effective alternative to oral NSAIDs in this patient population.
CT angiography of the renal arteries with iodinated contrast is contraindicated in the setting of acute kidney injury. There is no evidence to suggest that renal artery stenosis is contributing to this patient's acute kidney injury.
Kidney biopsy can be performed to diagnosis glomerulonephritis. Although NSAIDs can cause glomerulonephritis, there are no signs to suggest acute glomerulonephritis because the patient's urinalysis does not show blood or significant protein.
Starting furosemide would help with the new peripheral edema that has developed but would not reverse the acute kidney injury; in fact, it may worsen the acute kidney injury by decreasing intravascular volume and further decreasing renal blood flow.

**Bibliography**

Zhang X, Donnan PT, Bell S, Guthrie B. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug induced acute kidney injury in the community dwelling general population and people with chronic kidney disease: systematic review and meta-analysis. BMC Nephrol. 2017;18:256. PMID: 28764659

This content was last updated in August 2018.