
### Correct Answer: B) Intravenous calcium 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hypermagnesemia using intravenous calcium.

#### **Key Point:** Management of hypermagnesemia includes discontinuation of magnesium-containing medications, administration of saline diuresis to enhance magnesium excretion, and administration of intravenous calcium to treat severe symptoms.

In addition to administration of 0.9% saline and furosemide, intravenous calcium is appropriate treatment for this patient with hypermagnesemia. Because the kidney can efficiently eliminate magnesium, hypermagnesemia occurs infrequently and most commonly results from excessive intake in the setting of decreased kidney function. Numerous medications such as antacids and laxatives contain magnesium, and magnesium sulfate is the treatment of choice for prevention of eclampsia. Hypermagnesemia is usually not associated with significant symptoms until the level is >7.2 mg/dL (2.9 mmol/L). Symptoms include somnolence, headache, loss of deep tendon reflexes, bradycardia, hypotension, and hypocalcemia. At levels >12 mg/dL (4.9 mmol/L), flaccid paralysis, respiratory failure, and complete heart block can occur. Hypermagnesemia is usually self-limited. Magnesium-containing medications should be discontinued, and magnesium excretion can be enhanced with saline diuresis. In patients with hypotension and significant neuromuscular deficits, treatment is aimed at direct antagonism of the effects of hypermagnesemia, which is accomplished by intravenous administration of calcium. After this, efforts to lower the serum level should be instituted. If kidney function is adequate, a trial of 0.9% saline and furosemide will increase kidney excretion. Magnesium-containing agents should be limited or avoided in individuals with kidney disease.
If kidney failure is advanced, hemodialysis will effectively lower magnesium levels. However, this would require access to the central venous system and mobilization of the dialysis team, which can take several hours, and in the interim patients with symptomatic hypermagnesemia should be given intravenous calcium.
There is no role for either intravenous potassium or sodium bicarbonate other than correcting preexisting metabolic abnormalities.
Although sodium polystyrene sulfonate will bind a small amount of magnesium, this effect is minimal and not advocated as a treatment.

**Bibliography**

Van Hook JW. Endocrine crises. Hypermagnesemia. Crit Care Clin. 1991;7:215-23. PMID: 2007216

This content was last updated in August 2018.