
### Correct Answer: A) Examination of urine sediment 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose the cause of acute kidney injury.

#### **Key Point:** The presence of granular casts and/or renal epithelial cells on urine microscopy has strong predictive value for acute tubular necrosis.

The most appropriate next step is examination of the urine sediment for cells and casts. This patient has developed oliguric acute kidney injury (AKI). He has multiple risk factors for AKI, including type 2 diabetes mellitus, recent coronary arteriography, hypotension, and cardiac surgery. The main consideration is whether the AKI is due to renal hypoperfusion (prerenal AKI) or whether the AKI is due to acute tubular necrosis (ATN). In the setting of diuretics, the fractional excretion of urea (FEUrea) is more accurate than the fractional excretion of sodium because urea excretion is not promoted by diuretics and is still retained in volume-depleted states. FEUrea is calculated using the equation:
FEUrea = (UUrea × PCreatinine)/(UCreatinine × PUrea) × 100%
FEUrea <35% is suggestive of a prerenal state. The presence of granular casts and/or renal epithelial cells has strong predictive value for ATN. Urine microscopy can also help differentiate other causes of AKI, such as acute interstitial nephritis and glomerulonephritis.
The fractional excretion of sodium (FENa) is calculated as follows:
FENa = (USodium × PCreatinine)/(UCreatinine × PSodium) × 100%
FENa <1% indicates prerenal AKI but can also be seen in contrast-induced nephropathy, acute interstitial nephritis, rhabdomyolysis, glomerulonephritis, and early obstruction because the tubular handling of sodium is intact in these conditions. FENa >2% indicates ATN but is also seen in patients who are prerenal and are on diuretics or who have adrenal insufficiency, bicarbonaturia, or chronic kidney disease due to the increased distal tubular delivery of sodium in these conditions.
Kidney ultrasonography should be performed to rule out obstructive uropathy as the cause of AKI. However, the patient already has a urinary catheter, so the likelihood of obstruction as the cause of AKI is low.
Central venous pressure is not a reliable indicator of organ perfusion and would not be able to differentiate prerenal AKI from ATN or other causes of AKI.

**Bibliography**

Perazella MA, Coca SG, Kanbay M, Brewster UC, Parikh CR. Diagnostic value of urine microscopy for differential diagnosis of acute kidney injury in hospitalized patients. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2008;3:1615-9. PMID: 18784207

This content was last updated in August 2018.