
### Correct Answer: D) Make no changes to the current medication regimen 

**Educational Objective:** Treat IgA nephropathy with an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker.

#### **Key Point:** Antiproteinuric therapy with an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker is the hallmark and most validated treatment strategy for IgA nephropathy.

No changes need to be made to this patient's current medication regimen. He was diagnosed with IgA nephropathy 3 months ago, at which time the ACE inhibitor lisinopril was initiated. Antiproteinuric therapy using an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) is the hallmark for treating IgA nephropathy and remains the most proven therapy in slowing progression of the disease. This patient currently has preserved kidney function and proteinuria <1000 mg/24 h; therefore, continuing conservative therapy with the ACE inhibitor lisinopril is appropriate.
Combined use of any of the three renin-angiotensin system drug classes (ACE inhibitor, ARB, and direct renin inhibitors) is not recommended given the results of several clinical trials that revealed more adverse events with these combinations (hyperkalemia, hypotension, acute kidney injury), without additional cardiovascular or renal benefits. Therefore, adding the ARB losartan to this patient's medication regimen is not recommended.
The risk for disease progression appears to be significantly increased when patients have proteinuria >1000 mg/24 h, particularly in the setting of reduced kidney function. Studies on using immunosuppression (particularly glucocorticoids) have used this 1000 mg/24 h proteinuria threshold for enrollment and have demonstrated conflicting results. Although earlier small studies have shown a clear benefit in adding glucocorticoids (oral or a combination of intravenous and oral) to ACE inhibitors or ARBs when proteinuria is >1000 mg/24 h, more recent larger studies (STOP-IgAN and TESTING studies) have raised concerns about the toxicity of this treatment strategy outweighing any potential benefits. Therefore, the use of immunosuppression in IgA nephropathy remains controversial.

**Bibliography**

Feehally J. Immunosuppression in IgA nephropathy: guideline medicine versus personalized medicine. Semin Nephrol. 2017;37:464-477. PMID: 28863793

This content was last updated in August 2018.