
### Correct Answer: A) 24-Hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose masked hypertension using ambulatory blood pressure monitoring.

#### **Key Point:** Suspected masked hypertension (defined as blood pressure that is normal in the office but elevated in the ambulatory setting) should be confirmed with ambulatory blood pressure monitoring or home blood pressure monitoring.

The most appropriate test to perform next is 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) in this patient who has a strong family history of hypertension with cardiovascular complications. According to the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) blood pressure guideline, the patient has elevated blood pressure (BP), defined as systolic BP between 120-129 mm Hg and diastolic BP <80 mm Hg, and is at risk for development of hypertension (defined as systolic BP ≥130 mm Hg or diastolic BP ≥80 mm Hg). In addition, she has left ventricular hypertrophy on electrocardiogram, which raises concern for underlying long-standing hypertension. Therefore, masked hypertension, defined as BP that is normal in the office but elevated in the ambulatory setting, should be ruled out. Masked hypertension is associated with an increased risk of sustained hypertension and cardiovascular disease. The diagnostic test of choice is 24-hour ABPM; home blood pressure monitoring is an alternative strategy. Up to 10% to 40% of patients who are normotensive by clinic measurement may be hypertensive by ABPM or home blood pressure monitoring, which should be performed in patients referred for hypertension but with normal office BP and in those with end-organ damage such as left ventricular hypertrophy. Finally, the ACC/AHA notes that it is reasonable to evaluate for masked hypertension in patients with elevated BP, even in the absence of a strong family history of cardiovascular disease or evidence of sustained hypertension (for example, left ventricular hypertrophy on electrocardiogram).
A plasma aldosterone concentration/plasma renin activity ratio is often obtained in the evaluation of hyperaldosteronism. Such patients present with hypertension and often hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis. It is premature to evaluate the patient for secondary causes of hypertension without first establishing the diagnosis of hypertension with ABPM or home blood pressure monitoring.
Disordered breathing events such as obstructive sleep apnea are associated with autonomic instability, increased vascular tone, hypertension, and alterations in heart rate. However, this patient has no symptoms to suggest obstructive sleep apnea (frequent awakenings, dry mouth, snorting, daytime sleepiness, nonrestorative sleep), and testing with polysomnography is not indicated at this time.
Measurement of thyroid-stimulating hormone levels is not the next best diagnostic test because the patient does not manifest any symptoms or signs concerning for hyperthyroidism, such as tachycardia, heat intolerance, palpitations, dyspnea, tremulousness, weight loss, fatigue, insomnia, and mood disturbances.

**Bibliography**

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, Casey DE Jr, Collins KJ, Dennison Himmelfarb C, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention, detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Hypertension. 2017. PMID: 29133356

This content was last updated in August 2018.