
### Correct Answer: A) Add amlodipine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hypertension in a black patient using a thiazide diuretic and a calcium channel blocker.

#### **Key Point:** Initial antihypertensive treatment in black patients without chronic kidney disease should include a thiazide diuretic or calcium channel blocker, or combination of the two.

Addition of the calcium channel blocker (CCB) amlodipine is the most appropriate next step in management. A landmark trial (ALLHAT) revealed that in black patients, a thiazide diuretic was more effective in improving cardiovascular outcomes compared with an ACE inhibitor, and there was a higher risk of stroke with use of an ACE inhibitor as initial therapy compared with a CCB. For these reasons, initial antihypertensive treatment in black patients, including those with diabetes mellitus, should include a thiazide diuretic or CCB, or combination of the two. However, if chronic kidney disease (CKD) is present, initial or add-on therapy should include an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker, especially in those with proteinuria, as illustrated by the AASK study. There is no evidence of CKD in this patient, given the normal serum creatinine and absence of an elevated urine albumin-creatinine ratio. Although hydrochlorothiazide was initiated 1 month ago, his blood pressure is still not at the target. Addition of the CCB amlodipine is therefore appropriate.
This patient is already on an adequate dose of hydrochlorothiazide, and his serum potassium level is borderline low at 3.5 mEq/L (3.5 mmol/L). Increasing the hydrochlorothiazide dose may further decrease his serum potassium and may be associated with adverse side effects, such as orthostasis and erectile dysfunction.
According to the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association (ACC/AHA) blood pressure guideline, target blood pressure for most patients with hypertension, with or without coronary artery disease, diabetes, or CKD is <130/80 mm Hg. This patient is substantially above target, and reassessing in 3 months' time would not be adequate management. In addition, the ACC/AHA guideline recommends that adults initiating a new or adjusted drug regimen for hypertension should have a follow-up evaluation of adherence and response to treatment at monthly intervals until control is achieved. Waiting 3 months to reevaluate the patient is too long.

**Bibliography**

ALLHAT Officers and Coordinators for the ALLHAT Collaborative Research Group. The Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial. Major outcomes in high-risk hypertensive patients randomized to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or calcium channel blocker vs diuretic: the Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT). JAMA. 2002;288:2981-97. PMID: 12479763

This content was last updated in March 2020.