
### Correct Answer: A) Chronic hypertension 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose chronic hypertension in a pregnant patient.

#### **Key Point:** The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists defines chronic hypertension as a systolic blood pressure ≥140 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure ≥90 mm Hg starting before pregnancy or before 20 weeks of gestation or persists longer than 12 weeks' postpartum.

The most likely diagnosis in this pregnant patient is chronic hypertension. Hypertension first recognized during pregnancy at <20 weeks' gestation usually indicates chronic hypertension. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) defines chronic hypertension as a systolic blood pressure ≥140 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure ≥90 mm Hg starting before pregnancy or before 20 weeks of gestation or persists longer than 12 weeks' postpartum. In normal pregnancy, the blood pressure declines during the first trimester, reaches its lowest level in the second trimester, and rises slowly thereafter. A patient with hypertension in the first trimester suggests that the hypertension predates the pregnancy. To avoid overtreatment of hypertension and associated fetal risk, the 2013 ACOG guidelines recommend treating persistent systolic blood pressure ≥160 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure ≥105 mm Hg in women with chronic hypertension. Blood pressure goals with medications are 120 to 160/80 to 105 mm Hg. Antihypertensive treatment reduces the risk of progression to severe hypertension by 50% compared with placebo but has not been shown to prevent preeclampsia, preterm birth, small size for gestational age, or infant mortality.
Gestational hypertension first manifests after 20 weeks of pregnancy without proteinuria or other end-organ damage and resolves within 12 weeks of delivery. This patient's early presentation is not consistent with gestational hypertension.
Normal physiologic changes in pregnancy are usually associated with decreased blood pressure in the first trimester with a nadir blood pressure in the second. In this patient, the high blood pressure is inconsistent with normal pregnancy changes.
Preeclampsia is defined clinically by new-onset hypertension and proteinuria that occur after 20 weeks of pregnancy. In addition to blood pressure criteria, there must be proteinuria or new-onset end-organ damage, including liver or kidney injury, pulmonary edema, cerebral or visual symptoms, or thrombocytopenia. This patient's early presentation in the first trimester and lack of end-organ involvement is not consistent with preeclampsia.

**Bibliography**

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Hypertension in pregnancy. Report of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists' Task Force on Hypertension in Pregnancy. Obstet Gynecol. 2013;122:1122-31. PMID: 24150027

This content was last updated in August 2018.