
### Correct Answer: B) Anti–glomerular basement membrane antibodies 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose anti–glomerular basement membrane antibody disease.

#### **Key Point:** Serologic testing for anti–glomerular basement membrane antibodies and kidney biopsy can confirm the diagnosis of anti–glomerular basement membrane antibody disease as the cause of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis.

The most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next is anti–glomerular basement membrane (GBM) antibodies. This patient presents with a rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (RPGN), an acute and steep rise in serum creatinine accompanied by hematuria and proteinuria. The differential diagnosis for RPGN is divided histologically into three patterns on immunofluorescence microscopy of the kidney biopsy: pauci-immune staining (for example, ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis), linear staining (for example, anti-GBM antibody disease), and granular staining (for example, lupus nephritis). The patient's positive antimyeloperoxidase (MPO) antibodies predict that she will have pauci-immune staining on the biopsy, but the linear staining on her biopsy is more consistent with anti-GBM antibody disease. Therefore, testing for anti-GBM antibodies is required to confirm this diagnosis, although treatment for her condition should not be delayed while awaiting results. One in three patients with anti-GBM antibody disease will have positive ANCA serologies, usually MPO antibodies (or p-ANCA in older assays). This combined seropositivity is most commonly seen in the subset of anti-GBM patients who are older women, as in this case. Diagnosing anti-GBM antibody disease could affect treatment decisions in this case, particularly whether to pursue plasmapheresis, which is indicated for all cases of anti-GBM antibody disease. For ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis, plasmapheresis is reserved for those with alveolar hemorrhage and/or severe kidney failure (defined as requiring dialysis or a serum creatinine >5.8 mg/dL [512.7 µmol/L]).
This patient has negative antinuclear antibody testing and a biopsy not consistent with lupus nephritis, making testing for anti–double-stranded DNA antibodies unnecessary.
Anti–phospholipase A2 receptor (PLA2R) antibodies can be checked in patients suspected of having primary membranous glomerulopathy, which typically presents with the nephrotic syndrome and preserved kidney function, not RPGN.
Antihistone antibodies are measured if drug-induced vasculitis or drug-induced lupus erythematosus is suspected. This patient was not taking any medications, making this test unnecessary.

**Bibliography**

Sethi S, Haas M, Markowitz GS, D’Agati VD, Rennke HG, Jennette JC, et al. Mayo Clinic/Renal Pathology Society consensus report on pathologic classification, diagnosis, and reporting of GN. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2016;27:1278-87. PMID: 26567243

This content was last updated in August 2018.