
### Correct Answer: C) Perform 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose white coat hypertension using ambulatory blood pressure monitoring.

#### **Key Point:** White coat hypertension refers to elevated blood pressure measured in the office, but normal out-of-office blood pressure averages; diagnosis requires confirmation using 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (gold standard) or home blood pressure monitoring.

The most appropriate next step is to evaluate for white coat hypertension using 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM). ABPM uses a continuously worn device that can be programmed to measure blood pressure every 15 to 20 minutes during the day and every 30 to 60 minutes at night. White coat hypertension refers to elevated blood pressure measured in the office, but normal out-of-office blood pressure averages. According to the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association blood pressure guideline, in adults with untreated systolic blood pressure >130 mm Hg but <160 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure >80 mm Hg but <100 mm Hg, it is reasonable to screen for white coat hypertension using either ABPM (the gold standard) or home blood pressure monitoring. Before white coat hypertension is diagnosed, it needs to be confirmed that the out-of-office measurements are reliable; for example, the patient's home blood pressure monitor should be calibrated against the office sphygmomanometer or, preferably, blood pressure should be measured by ABPM. If white coat hypertension is confirmed, lifestyle modification and careful monitoring are indicated because there is risk for future development of hypertension.
Before initiating hydrochlorothiazide, 24-hour ABPM or home blood pressure monitoring should be performed to rule out white coat hypertension.
Screening echocardiography is not the correct next step in diagnosis, although it may be considered if the diagnosis of hypertension remains in doubt in order to evaluate for left ventricular hypertrophy. The presence of confirmed left ventricular hypertrophy will necessitate treatment with antihypertensive medication.
The patient's blood pressure has been elevated in the office on three different occasions, and it is unlikely that another measurement in 3 months' time will produce a different result. The issue at hand is the diagnosis of white coat hypertension, which will require out-of-office blood pressure measurements.

**Bibliography**

Pierdomenico SD, Cuccurullo F. Prognostic value of white-coat and masked hypertension diagnosed by ambulatory monitoring in initially untreated subjects: an updated meta analysis. Am J Hypertens. 2011;24:52-8. PMID: 20847724

This content was last updated in August 2018.