
### Correct Answer: B) Hemodialysis 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hyperkalemia in a patient with acute kidney injury using hemodialysis.

#### **Key Point:** In the setting of anuric-oliguric acute kidney injury, intermittent hemodialysis allows for rapid correction of electrolyte disturbances and rapid removal of drugs or toxins.

Intermittent hemodialysis (IHD) is the most efficient way to correct this patient's hyperkalemia in the setting of anuric-oliguric acute kidney injury (AKI). IHD, typically delivered 3 to 6 times a week for 3 to 5 hours per session, allows for rapid correction of electrolyte disturbances and rapid removal of drugs or toxins. This patient has severe hyperkalemia with electrocardiographic changes, which should be corrected urgently to prevent lethal cardiac arrhythmias. Calcium, insulin, and dextrose are only temporizing measures and will not result in potassium removal from the body. Only dialysis will result in potassium removal from the body.
Continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) is a type of dialysis that is performed in critically ill patients who are hemodynamically unstable. CRRT provides hemodynamic stability by removing fluid and solutes at a much slower rate than IHD. As a result, CRRT would not be able to clear potassium rapidly but may be considered if the patient cannot tolerate IHD.
Furosemide can induce urinary potassium loss by increasing urine flow and delivery of sodium to the distal nephron for exchange with potassium. However, this patient is nearly anuric with acute tubular necrosis based on urine microscopy and unlikely to respond to furosemide.
Sodium bicarbonate causes a shift of hydrogen ion from the intracellular fluid compartment to the extracellular compartment, causing an opposing net intracellular potassium shift to maintain electroneutrality. The effect of bicarbonate is transient and ineffective in end-stage kidney disease or severe AKI.
Sodium polystyrene sulfonate is a cation exchange resin that removes potassium through the gastrointestinal tract. The onset of action is hours to days, and its effectiveness is disputed. It is contraindicated in patients with recent bowel surgery because of an increased risk for intestinal necrosis.

**Bibliography**

Rossignol P, Legrand M, Kosiborod M, Hollenberg SM, Peacock WF, Emmett M, et al. Emergency management of severe hyperkalemia: guideline for best practice and opportunities for the future. Pharmacol Res. 2016;113:585-591. PMID: 27693804

This content was last updated in August 2018.