
### Correct Answer: D) Type 4 (hyperkalemic distal) renal tubular acidosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose type 4 (hyperkalemic distal) renal tubular acidosis.

#### **Key Point:** Type 4 (hyperkalemic distal) renal tubular acidosis is characterized by hyperkalemia, a normal anion gap metabolic acidosis, impaired urine acidification (positive urine anion gap), and a urine pH &lt;5.5.

The most likely diagnosis is type 4 (hyperkalemic distal) renal tubular acidosis (RTA), which is caused by aldosterone deficiency or resistance. Primary adrenal insufficiency (Addison disease) may cause aldosterone deficiency, although hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism is a more common cause and may occur in the presence of various kidney diseases, most often diabetes mellitus. Aldosterone resistance is seen in patients with tubulointerstitial disease, including urinary obstruction, sickle cell disease, medullary cystic kidney disease, and kidney transplant rejection. Drug-induced type 4 (hyperkalemic distal) RTA can be caused by numerous drugs that reduce aldosterone production, including ACE inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, heparin, and NSAIDs. Patients with type 4 (hyperkalemic distal) RTA have a positive urine anion gap (using the equation: [Urine Sodium + Urine Potassium] – Urine Chloride), indicating a reduced excretion of acid in the form of ammonium and chloride, but a urine pH <5.5. Hyperkalemia decreases ammonia production with consequent lower ammonium excretion and therefore results in the positive urine anion gap. Due to the inadequate amount of ammonia available to buffer protons, the few protons that are secreted distally will result in the low urine pH (<5.5). Treatment is focused on correcting the underlying cause if possible. Fludrocortisone is used to replace mineralocorticoids in adrenal insufficiency and should be considered in hyporeninemic hypoaldosteronism in those without hypertension or heart failure.
Although chronic kidney disease may result in hyperkalemia and metabolic acidosis, the acidosis does not usually develop until later progression (glomerular filtration rate <40-45 mL/min/1.73 m2), and hyperkalemia is usually not present until the glomerular filtration rate is at even lower levels (usually stage 4 or worse).
The normal anion gap of type 1 (hypokalemic distal) RTA results from a distal tubular defect and associated impaired excretion of hydrogen ions by the distal nephron. It is usually associated with hypokalemia, which is not present in this patient.
Type 2 (proximal) RTA results from failure of the proximal tubule to adequately reclaim filtered bicarbonate, driving the development of a normal anion gap metabolic acidosis; the urine anion gap is typically negative. Type 2 (proximal) RTA is usually accompanied by other evidence of proximal tubular dysfunction (hypokalemia, glycosuria, and hypophosphatemia), none of which is present in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Yaxley J, Pirrone C. Review of the diagnostic evaluation of renal tubular acidosis. Ochsner J. 2016;16:525-530. PMID: 27999512

This content was last updated in September 2019.