
### Correct Answer: D) Schedule a kidney biopsy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose lupus nephritis.

#### **Key Point:** A kidney biopsy should be performed in patients with known systemic lupus erythematosus with suspected significant kidney involvement to establish the diagnosis and to identify the class, which will guide treatment decisions.

The most appropriate next step is a kidney biopsy. The presence of hematuria, dysmorphic erythrocytes, and proteinuria in a patient with known systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is highly suggestive of lupus nephritis; when serologies are positive and serum complement levels are low, this diagnosis is even more likely. Commonly cited indications for kidney biopsy include increasing serum creatinine without explanation, proteinuria >500 mg/24 h, or active urine sediment (dysmorphic erythrocytes, erythrocyte casts). Patients meeting these criteria are more likely to have focal or diffuse proliferative lupus nephritis or lupus membranous nephropathy requiring immunosuppressive therapy. Patients with proteinuria <500 mg/24 h and inactive urine sediment are more likely to have milder kidney involvement and may be followed with urinalysis, urine protein-creatinine ratio, and serum creatinine every 3 to 6 months.
Unless absolutely contraindicated (for example, bleeding diathesis or inability to stop anticoagulation), both rheumatology and nephrology guidelines support performing a kidney biopsy in patients with SLE who develop evidence of significant kidney involvement to establish the diagnosis and, of equal importance with regard to treatment decisions, to identify the International Society of Nephrology/Renal Pathology Society (ISN/RPS) class of lupus nephritis.
This patient's kidney biopsy could show a proliferative lupus nephritis (class III or IV), in which case treatment with glucocorticoids and mycophenolate mofetil or cyclophosphamide would be indicated (mycophenolate mofetil would likely be preferred given this patient's age). However, her biopsy could also conceivably show a milder, mesangial proliferative lupus nephritis (class II) or membranous lupus nephritis (class V), neither of which would require immunosuppression at this stage. Therefore, empiric therapy in this setting is substandard to biopsy-guided therapy according to ISN/RPS class of nephritis.

**Bibliography**

Hahn BH, McMahon MA, Wilkinson A, Wallace WD, Daikh DI, Fitzgerald JD, et al; American College of Rheumatology. American College of Rheumatology guidelines for screening, treatment, and management of lupus nephritis. Arthritis Care Res (Hoboken). 2012;64:797-808. PMID: 22556106

This content was last updated in August 2018.