
### Correct Answer: D) Stop chlorthalidone; begin furosemide 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hypertension associated with volume expansion in chronic kidney disease.

#### **Key Point:** Loop diuretics are a cornerstone of blood pressure management in patients with advanced chronic kidney disease.

Stopping chlorthalidone and beginning furosemide is the most appropriate treatment for this patient's hypertension. Hypertension is a risk factor for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The most common cause of death in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) is cardiovascular disease. Therefore, blood pressure control is critical for preventing disease and death. Diuretics are central to the management of hypertension. Although thiazide diuretics (such as chlorthalidone) are recommended first-line agents for hypertension, efficacy decreases with advanced stages of CKD. Therefore, loop diuretics (furosemide, bumetanide, torsemide) are a cornerstone of blood pressure management in patients with advanced CKD. Sodium retention and impaired natriuresis lead to volume expansion and an increase in blood pressure. Loop diuretics are effective natriuretics and retain their activity even at low glomerular filtration rate (GFR); however, doses need to be increased as GFR declines to maintain appropriate urine output and negative fluid balance. Loop diuretics are equally effective if given in equipotent doses. The loop diuretic furosemide would effectively treat this patient's volume expansion and therefore reduce blood pressure. Additional benefit would include increased urine potassium and acid excretion to treat the mild hyperkalemia and metabolic acidosis associated with CKD. The most common side effects of loop diuretics are electrolyte and fluid abnormalities, hypersensitivity, and ototoxicity.
Hydralazine is not indicated for this patient who has volume expansion and needs diuresis; this drug is also relatively contraindicated in coronary artery disease.
Losartan is an angiotensin receptor blocker, which should not be combined with an ACE inhibitor due to the risk of hyperkalemia and acute kidney injury.
Although spironolactone can help reduce blood pressure and edema through its anti-aldosterone effects and blockade of sodium reabsorption in the cortical collecting duct, it would be contraindicated in this patient with advanced CKD and hyperkalemia.

**Bibliography**

Valika A, Peixoto AJ. Hypertension management in transition: from CKD to ESRD. Adv Chronic Kidney Dis. 2016;23:255-61. PMID: 27324679

This content was last updated in August 2018.