
### Correct Answer: D) Tunneled internal jugular central venous catheter 

**Educational Objective:** Select the most appropriate venous access for a patient with advanced chronic kidney disease.

#### **Key Point:** Peripherally inserted central catheter placement before or after hemodialysis initiation is associated with adverse vascular access outcomes in patients with chronic kidney disease.

A tunneled internal jugular central venous catheter is the most appropriate venous access strategy for this patient. In patients with osteomyelitis, 6 weeks of antimicrobial therapy after surgical débridement is the preferred treatment course, and for most patients this requires long-term reliable venous access. However, this patient's advanced degree of kidney disease, relatively young age, and type 2 diabetes mellitus put her at high risk for progressing to end-stage kidney disease, and the upper extremity veins should be protected for future hemodialysis access creation. The American Society of Nephrology recommends nephrology consultation first before placing peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) lines in patients with stage G3 to G5 CKD. PICCs are long catheters that are inserted peripherally and terminate in the central veins. PICCs are popular because of their ease of insertion and use. However, a national, population-based analysis revealed that PICCs placed before or after hemodialysis initiation were independently associated with lower likelihoods of transition to any working fistula or graft. PICC lines can lead to significant vein trauma and venous stenosis in the veins that may be used for arteriovenous fistula creation. This could impair blood flow through the fistula, impair maturation, and even lead to primary nonfunctioning of the hemodialysis access. Although central lines are associated with central venous stenosis, a central line is a better alternative than a PICC for long-term parenteral antibiotics because central lines are not inserted into a peripheral vein, which would be used for the creation of a hemodialysis site.
Arteriovenous fistula or graft creation is inappropriate due to the presence of active infection. Additionally, inserting a PICC line in the arm next to the fistula may also still cause damage to the access itself or damage one of the branching veins, which could impair the maturation of the access.

**Bibliography**

McGill RL, Ruthazer R, Meyer KB, Miskulin DC, Weiner DE. Peripherally inserted central catheters and hemodialysis outcomes. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2016;11:1434-40. PMID: 27340280

This content was last updated in August 2018.