
### Correct Answer: C) Polydipsia 

**Educational Objective:** Identify polydipsia as the cause of isovolemic hypotonic hyponatremia.

#### **Key Point:** Isovolemic hypotonic hyponatremia associated with urine osmolality &lt;100 mOsm/kg H2O indicates excessive water intake, as seen with psychogenic polydipsia or poor solute intake.

This patient has isovolemic hypotonic hyponatremia secondary to polydipsia. Isovolemia is documented by the presence of normal vital signs and physical examination findings. Hypotonicity is documented by the low calculated serum osmolality of 263 mOsm/kg H2O, using the following equation:
Serum Osmolality (mOsm/kg H2O) = (2 × Serum Sodium [mEq/L]) + Plasma Glucose (mg/dL)/18 + Blood Urea Nitrogen (mg/dL)/2.8
Isovolemic hypotonic hyponatremia is secondary either to impaired dilution of urine or to water intake that exceeds the kidney's ability to excrete dilute urine. Urine osmolality distinguishes between these two entities. Urine osmolality <100 mOsm/kg H2O indicates excessive water intake, as seen with psychogenic polydipsia or poor solute intake. Because the kidney cannot excrete pure water, a minimal solute concentration of 50 mOsm/kg H2O is required. If solute intake is low while liquid intake remains high (as seen in beer potomania or chronic low food intake), water excretion is limited by available urinary solute.
Hyperglycemia causes the osmotic translocation of water from the intracellular to the extracellular fluid compartment, which results in a decrease in the serum sodium level by approximately 1.6 to 2.0 mEq/L (1.6-2.0 mmol/L) for every 100 mg/dL (5.6 mmol/L) increase in the plasma glucose above 100 mg/dL (5.6 mmol/L). Although the patient has mild hyperglycemia, her glucose is not elevated enough to lower her sodium to 126 mEq/L (126 mmol/L).
Diabetes insipidus, due to either a lack of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) secretion from the posterior pituitary gland or kidney resistance to ADH (nephrogenic diabetes insipidus), will result in low urine osmolality as seen in this patient. In the absence of ADH, excessive water is excreted by the kidneys. Serum sodium is typically normal but may be elevated in patients who do not have access to water. Although lithium can cause nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, the fact that she is hyponatremic rules out this diagnosis.
Hyponatremia most often results from an increase in circulating ADH in response to a true or sensed reduction in effective arterial blood volume with resulting fluid retention. Hyponatremia may also be caused by elevated ADH levels associated with the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion. Because she has dilute urine indicating a lack of ADH, neither the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion nor volume depletion is the cause of her hyponatremia. Volume depletion is also excluded by the normal blood pressure and pulse measurement and absence of orthostatic changes.

**Bibliography**

Hoorn EJ, Zietse R. Diagnosis and treatment of hyponatremia: compilation of the guidelines. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2017;28:1340-1349. PMID: 28174217

This content was last updated in March 2020.