
### Correct Answer: C) Begin losartan 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hypertension in a patient with diabetes mellitus and albuminuria using an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker.

#### **Key Point:** An ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker is the initial treatment of choice for hypertension in patients with diabetes mellitus and albuminuria.

In addition to lifestyle modifications, initiation of the angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) losartan is the most appropriate treatment for this patient with newly diagnosed hypertension. She has a normal serum creatinine level but has moderately increased albuminuria. Her blood pressure has been elevated at two office visits and confirmed with home blood pressure monitoring, and she needs to be treated to target, given that uncontrolled hypertension will lead to progression of albuminuria and chronic kidney disease (CKD). A reasonable target blood pressure for this patient is <130/80 mm Hg. The 2017 high blood pressure guideline from the American College of Cardiology (ACC), American Heart Association (AHA), and nine other organizations recommends a treatment goal of <130/80 mm Hg. The ACC/AHA guideline notes that ACE inhibitors or ARBs may be considered as initial treatment choices in the presence of albuminuria. The American Diabetes Association (ADA) Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes 2018 recommends that most patients with diabetes mellitus and hypertension should be treated to a systolic blood pressure goal of <140 mm Hg and a diastolic blood pressure goal of <90 mm Hg. Lower systolic and diastolic blood pressure targets, such as 130/80 mm Hg, may be appropriate for individuals at high risk of cardiovascular disease if they can be achieved without undue treatment burden. In nonpregnant patients with diabetes and hypertension, the ADA recommends either an ACE inhibitor or an ARB for those with albuminuria. Several large randomized controlled trials and systematic reviews have shown that use of an ARB or ACE inhibitor can result in decreased progression of albuminuria and CKD in patients with diabetes.
The ACC/AHA blood pressure guideline recommends the following lifestyle modifications for individuals with elevated blood pressure or hypertension: weight loss in adults with overweight or obesity; a heart-healthy diet, such as DASH (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension), that facilitates achieving a desirable weight; sodium reduction; potassium supplementation, preferably in dietary modification, unless contraindicated by the presence of CKD or use of drugs that reduce potassium excretion; increased physical activity with a structured exercise program; and limiting alcohol consumption of standard drinks to two (men) and one (women) per day. Although these recommendations are appropriate for this patient, it is not the only recommended intervention to control hypertension in this patient with diabetes and albuminuria. Therefore, simply asking the patient to return in 2 months for a blood pressure measurement after initiating lifestyle changes is not sufficient.
Calcium channel blockers (such as amlodipine) and thiazide diuretics (such as chlorthalidone) are not initial choices for treating hypertension in patients with diabetes and albuminuria. If this patient's blood pressure is still not controlled to target after maximizing the dose of the ARB, then one of these agents can be added.

**Bibliography**

Palmer SC, Mavridis D, Navarese E, Craig JC, Tonelli M, Salanti G, et al. Comparative efficacy and safety of blood pressure-lowering agents in adults with diabetes and kidney disease: a network meta-analysis. Lancet. 2015;385:2047-56. PMID: 26009228

This content was last updated in August 2018.