
### Correct Answer: C) Reassess the serum creatinine level in 1 week 

**Educational Objective:** Identify medication as a cause of an increase in serum creatinine.

#### **Key Point:** Some medications (such as cimetidine, trimethoprim, cobicistat, dolutegravir, bictegravir, and rilpivirine) reduce proximal tubule secretion of creatinine, resulting in increases in serum creatinine that are nonprogressive; repeat serum creatinine measurement is required to confirm stable levels.

Reassessing this patient's serum creatinine level in 1 week is the most appropriate next step in management. Some medications (such as cimetidine, trimethoprim, cobicistat, dolutegravir, bictegravir, and rilpivirine) reduce proximal tubule secretion of creatinine, resulting in increases in serum creatinine that are nonprogressive. This patient has chronic kidney disease (CKD), long-standing hypertension, and HIV infection. His antiretroviral medication regimen was recently adjusted to a once-a-day dosing, with the integrase inhibitor raltegravir discontinued and dolutegravir started 3 weeks ago. Dolutegravir is known to interfere with creatinine secretion without affecting glomerular filtration rate. Slight increases in serum creatinine of 0.2 to 0.3 mg/dL (17.7-26.5 µmol/L) may occur. This is more pronounced in those with preexisting CKD, in which creatinine secretion may contribute proportionately more to creatinine clearance. In patients with HIV taking the integrase inhibitors dolutegravir or bictegravir, the non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor rilpivirine, or the pharmacokinetic enhancer (CYP3A inhibitor) cobicistat, serum creatinine elevations are nonprogressive and will remain unchanged within 1 to 2 weeks of initiation. Therefore, in the absence of other signs of kidney disease (hematuria, pyuria, or increasing proteinuria), reassessment of the serum creatinine level in 1 week will confirm the drug's effect in this patient. Further increases in serum creatinine levels will require additional evaluation.
Discontinuation of the ACE inhibitor lisinopril is not necessary. This patient has long-standing hypertension and is likely benefiting from the lisinopril for his CKD and moderate albuminuria. It is unlikely to have caused this acute increase in serum creatinine because the hemodynamic effects of ACE inhibitors on glomerular filtration occur within days of initiating the medication and then stabilize.
A 24-hour urine creatinine clearance will be decreased in this case (due to drug-related lower creatinine secretion) and will not provide additional diagnostic information.
Should a repeat serum creatinine level be stable, no further evaluation will be necessary.

**Bibliography**

Milburn J, Jones R, Levy JB. Renal effects of novel antiretroviral drugs. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2017;32:434-439. PMID: 27190354

This content was last updated in August 2018.