
### Correct Answer: B) Calcium phosphate 

**Educational Objective:** Identify calcium phosphate as the composition of a kidney stone in a patient taking topiramate.

#### **Key Point:** Topiramate, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, causes a decrease in urinary citrate excretion and formation of alkaline urine that favor the creation of calcium phosphate stones.

The most likely composition of this patient's kidney stone is calcium phospate. Approximately 80% of kidney stones contain calcium oxalate, calcium phosphate, or both. Calcium stones are radiopaque on plain radiograph. Hypercalciuria, hyperoxaluria, and hypocitraturia are risk factors for calcium stones. Calcium phosphate stones occur when there is persistently elevated urine pH. These stones are therefore commonly associated with distal renal tubular acidosis and hyperparathyroidism. This patient is taking topiramate for migraine prophylaxis, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor that is associated with calcium phosphate stones. Carbonic anhydrase promotes proximal tubule sodium, bicarbonate, and chloride reabsorption. Inhibitors of carbonic anhydrase produce both sodium chloride and bicarbonate urinary loss. The resultant mild metabolic acidosis causes decreased citrate excretion, and the persistent alkaline urine favors the precipitation of calcium phosphate.
Although calcium oxalate is the most common cause of kidney stones, there are no calcium oxalate crystals noted on this patient's urinalysis. The most common crystal formations of calcium oxalate in the urine are the dumbbell-shaped calcium oxalate monohydrate crystals and envelope-shaped calcium oxalate dihydrate crystals. She has amorphous crystals in alkaline urine, which are usually calcium phosphate crystals.
Cystine stones occur with cystinuria, which is a genetic disease. This patient has no family history of kidney stones, and the characteristic hexagonal-shaped crystals are not seen on urine microscopy.
Struvite stones occur in the presence of urea-splitting bacteria (Proteus, Klebsiella, or, less frequently, Pseudomonas). These bacteria split urea into ammonium, which markedly increases urine pH and results in the precipitation of magnesium ammonium phosphate (struvite). The pH of the urine will be >7.5. Struvite stones commonly produce staghorn calculi (stones that bridge two or more renal calyces) and occur most frequently in older women with chronic urinary infections. Coffin lid–shaped crystals may be seen in the urine. This patient does not demonstrate these findings.
Uric acid stones are uncommon (10% of stones), but the incidence increases in hotter, arid climates due to low urine volumes. The main risk factor is low urine pH, which decreases the solubility of uric acid. Hyperuricosuria is not a consistent finding. Comorbid risk factors for uric acid stones include gout, diabetes mellitus, the metabolic syndrome, and chronic diarrhea. Because uric acid stones occur in persistently acidic urine, this is an unlikely diagnosis for this patient.

**Bibliography**

Dell’Orto VG, Belotti EA, Goeggel-Simonetti B, Simonetti GD, Ramelli GP, Bianchetti MG, et al. Metabolic disturbances and renal stone promotion on treatment with topiramate: a systematic review. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2014;77:958-64. PMID: 24219102

This content was last updated in August 2018.