
### Correct Answer: C) Omeprazole 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose proton pump inhibitor–induced tubulointerstitial nephritis.

#### **Key Point:** Chronic tubulointerstitial nephritis can be caused by proton pump inhibitors, and the median time from drug initiation to diagnosis may exceed 6 to 9 months.

The proton pump inhibitor omeprazole is the most likely cause of this patient's kidney findings. Nonspecific symptoms of tubulointerstitial disease include polyuria, malaise, and anorexia, as well as progressive kidney dysfunction. Urinary findings can range from minimal findings to the presence of sterile pyuria, proteinuria, and hematuria. Chronic tubulointerstitial diseases most commonly result from previous injury due to acute interstitial nephritis. Therefore, the history and physical examination should focus on conditions associated with acute tubulointerstitial disease and other potential treatable causes with a careful review of medications. Proton pump inhibitors are the most commonly prescribed drugs worldwide. The occurrence of interstitial nephritis is not dose related, and disease can recur with reexposure. The median time from drug initiation to interstitial nephritis diagnosis is variable but can exceed 6 months to 9 months, with 10 to 11 weeks the most common interval. There is also emerging literature that proton pump inhibitors may contribute to the development and progression of chronic kidney disease.
Although large amounts of aspirin and NSAIDs can cause tubulointerstitial nephritis, a daily dose of low-dose aspirin (81 mg) is unlikely to cause interstitial nephritis. It is unlikely that therapeutic doses of aspirin alone cause chronic kidney disease in patients with normal underlying kidney function.
Fenofibrate nephrotoxicity is characterized by a rise in serum creatinine typically occurring ≥6 months after initiation of therapy. The sediment is bland, and there is usually no significant proteinuria. The mechanism of increase in creatinine is unknown. This patient has been taking fenofibrate for only 2 months, making this drug an unlikely cause of his interstitial nephritis.
St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) is most commonly used to treat depression. Adverse effects are uncommon but the following have been reported: gastrointestinal symptoms, dizziness, confusion, tiredness, sedation, photosensitivity, dry mouth, urinary frequency, anorgasmia, and swelling. St. John's wort has not been associated with tubulointerstitial nephritis.

**Bibliography**

Moledina DG, Perazella MA. PPIs and kidney disease: from AIN to CKD. J Nephrol. 2016;29:611-6. PMID: 27072818

This content was last updated in August 2018.