
### Correct Answer: C) Order a plasma potassium measurement 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose pseudohyperkalemia.

#### **Key Point:** Pseudohyperkalemia may occur in serum specimens when there are extreme elevations of leukocytes or platelets; repeat plasma potassium measurements can confirm a normal potassium level.

The most appropriate next step in management is a repeat plasma potassium measurement. This patient has an elevated serum potassium level of 6.4 mEq/L (6.4 mmol/L) in the setting of leukocytosis likely due to acute leukemia. Hyperkalemia is defined as a serum potassium level >5.0 mEq/L (5.0 mmol/L). Any level >6.0 mEq/L (6.0 mmol/L) can be life-threatening. Because of the potential cardiac effects of hyperkalemia, immediate electrocardiography (ECG) is indicated. The earliest ECG changes of hyperkalemia are peaking of the T waves and shortening of the QT interval. As hyperkalemia progresses, there is prolongation of the PR interval, loss of P waves, and eventual widening of the QRS complexes with a “sine-wave” pattern that can precede asystole. This patient has no ECG evidence of hyperkalemia. Pseudohyperkalemia is therefore the most likely cause of his elevated serum potassium level. Pseudohyperkalemia occurs with a false rise in potassium values from cellular release of potassium during venipuncture due to hemolysis or prolonged tourniquet use. It also occurs with significant leukocytosis or thrombocytosis. During the clotting process, these cells are disrupted with the release of intracellular potassium, and pseudohyperkalemia may occur in serum specimens when there are extreme elevations of leukocytes or platelets. The next step is to obtain a plasma specimen and rapidly separate the plasma from the cells. Normally, the serum potassium is 0.3 to 0.4 mEq/L (0.3-0.4 mmol/L) greater than a plasma specimen obtained at the same time. In extreme cases of leukocytosis or thrombocytosis, the serum potassium can be more than 1.0 mEq/L (1.0 mmol/L) higher. In cases of pseudohyperkalemia, a rapidly processed plasma specimen will be normal.
In patients with normal kidney function, intravenous saline, usually with the concomitant administration of a loop diuretic, can increase potassium excretion. Intravenous calcium should be reserved for cases of hyperkalemia exhibiting ECG changes. The effect of calcium on stabilizing the cardiac membrane is a transient event that lasts only 30 minutes. Inhaled albuterol lowers potassium by shifting it into cells. However, this patient has no indication to rapidly reduce potassium levels or stabilize the cardiac membrane because his ECG is normal.
The use of sodium bicarbonate in hyperkalemia has fallen out of favor. It has minimal effects on potassium levels and is usually reserved for patients with metabolic acidosis.

**Bibliography**

Meng QH, Wagar EA. Pseudohyperkalemia: a new twist on an old phenomenon. Crit Rev Clin Lab Sci. 2015;52:45-55. PMID: 25319088

This content was last updated in October 2021.