
### Correct Answer: C) Start an erythropoiesis-stimulating agent 

**Educational Objective:** Treat anemia associated with chronic kidney disease using an erythropoiesis-stimulating agent.

#### **Key Point:** The Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) guidelines recommend consideration of erythropoiesis-stimulating agents to treat anemia in patients with chronic kidney disease and adequate iron stores who have hemoglobin concentrations &lt;10 g/dL (100 g/L); the dose should be titrated to avoid hemoglobin concentrations increasing above 11.5 g/dL (115 g/L).

An erythropoiesis-stimulating agent (ESA) is appropriate to treat anemia in this patient with stage G4 chronic kidney disease (CKD). The prevalence of anemia increases as CKD progresses due to several factors, including impaired erythropoietin production, erythropoietin resistance, and reduced erythrocyte life span. Iron deficiency may contribute to erythropoietin resistance. The Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) recommendations suggest maintaining transferrin saturation levels of >30% and serum ferritin levels of >500 ng/mL (500 µg/L). The patient's iron stores are adequate based on the patient's transferrin saturation and ferritin levels, and the next step in treatment is to start an ESA. ESAs are highly effective in raising hemoglobin concentrations and alleviating symptoms, and can avoid the need for transfusion. ESAs should not be used in patients with active malignancy, history of malignancy, or history of stroke. ESAs should be started in symptomatic patients with CKD who have a hemoglobin concentration <10 g/dL (100 g/L), and the dose should be titrated to avoid hemoglobin concentrations increasing above 11.5 g/dL (115 g/L).
ACE inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) inhibit erythropoiesis, and patients on maintenance dialysis taking either ACE inhibitors or ARBs may have increased erythropoietin requirements. However, the mechanisms by which this occurs are poorly defined. Discontinuing losartan is incorrect because renin-angiotensin system blockade in CKD is beneficial in delaying the progression of CKD to end-stage kidney disease, which outweighs any potential interaction with anemia. However, discontinuing the medication could be considered if the patient demonstrated signs of erythropoietin resistance or refractory anemia.
Packed red blood cell transfusion is not indicated at this time and would expose the patient to transfusion-related risks and side effects. Additionally, blood transfusions can cause allosensitization, which can lead to antibody formation, and may prolong transplant waiting times.
Starting iron is incorrect because the patient is iron replete. Iron repletion is recommended if the transferrin saturation is ≤30% and the ferritin is ≤500 ng/mL (500 µg/L).

**Bibliography**

Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) Anemia Work Group. KDIGO clinical practice guideline for anemia in chronic kidney disease. Kidney inter., Suppl. 2012;2:279–335. Available at www.kdigo.org.

This content was last updated in August 2018.