
### Correct Answer: C) Hypomagnesemia 

**Educational Objective:** Identify hypomagnesemia as a cause of hypokalemia.

#### **Key Point:** Hypomagnesemia can cause symptomatic hypokalemia via renal losses of potassium; importantly, the hypokalemia will be refractory to therapy until magnesium is repleted.

The most likely cause of this patient's hypokalemia is hypomagnesemia. Symptoms of hypokalemia include weakness or paralysis; decreased gastrointestinal motility or ileus with nausea; and cardiac arrhythmias. This patient has symptomatic hypokalemia, presenting with lower extremity weakness and nausea. Hypokalemia can be caused by renal losses or nonrenal losses. In this case, the urine potassium is inappropriately high, pointing toward renal potassium wasting. Renal losses of potassium can occur with renal tubular acidosis; renal excretion of non-reabsorbable anions such as bicarbonate, hippurate, and ketones; drugs such as aminoglycosides or cisplatinum; Gitelman and Bartter syndromes; or hypomagnesemia. Hypomagnesemia is common, occurring in up to 12% of hospitalized patients. Chronic alcohol abuse results in excessive urinary excretion of magnesium and appears to reflect a reversible alcohol-induced tubular dysfunction. Intracellular magnesium is necessary to modulate the excretion of potassium through the potassium channel in the cortical collecting tubule. Hypomagnesemia results in loss of potassium through this channel. Importantly, the hypokalemia will be refractory to therapy until magnesium is repleted. Target levels for magnesium replacement are at least 2 mg/dL (0.83 mmol/L).
Unlike calcium and magnesium, which have substantial binding to albumin, potassium levels are not affected by the concentration of albumin.
Low levels of magnesium (due to alcohol abuse or malnutrition) activate G-proteins that stimulate calcium-sensing receptors and decrease parathyroid hormone (PTH) secretion and are a cause of hypocalcemia. Low magnesium levels are also associated with resistance to PTH activity at the level of bone, further contributing to hypocalcemia. Hypocalcemia and hypokalemia in this patient are a direct result of chronic magnesium loss due to the patient's alcoholism. Hypocalcemia has no significant effect on potassium concentration.
Because the kidneys can reduce urine potassium excretion to <20 mEq/24 h (20 mmol/24 h), hypokalemia from inadequate intake is uncommon. Urinary or gastrointestinal losses of potassium are most common. Assessment of urine potassium excretion is critical to establish renal potassium wasting. Urine potassium loss >20 mEq/24 h (20 mmol/24 h), a spot urine potassium >20 mEq/L (20 mmol/L), or a spot urine potassium-creatinine ratio >13 mEq/g (1.5 mEq/mmol) suggests excessive urinary losses. Conversely, urine potassium loss <20 mEq/24 h (20 mmol/24 h) suggests cellular shift, decreased intake, or extrarenal losses of potassium. This patient's high urinary potassium suggests urinary loss rather than poor nutrition as the cause of hypokalemia.

**Bibliography**

Rodan AR, Cheng CJ, Huang CL. Recent advances in distal tubular potassium handling. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol. 2011;300:F821-7. PMID: 21270092

This content was last updated in August 2018.