
### Correct Answer: A) Staphylococcus aureus 

**Educational Objective:** Identify Staphylococcus aureus as a cause of infection-related glomerulonephritis.

#### **Key Point:** In adults, most cases of infection-related glomerulonephritis are no longer poststreptococcal, and the glomerulonephritis often coexists with the triggering infection.

Staphylococcus aureus is the most likely cause of this patient's infection-related glomerulonephritis (IRGN). This patient has acute kidney injury in the setting of cellulitis, with active urine sediment and low serum complement levels. The biopsy shows a proliferative glomerulonephritis on light microscopy with immunofluorescence of C3 and IgA and subepithelial hump-like deposits on electron microscopy, confirming a diagnosis of IRGN. In the developed world, the epidemiology of IRGN has drastically shifted over the past few decades, moving away from streptococcal-associated glomerulonephritides to infections caused primarily by S. aureus and, at a significantly lower rate, gram-negative bacteria. In this patient with cellulitis and IRGN occurring at the time of infection, S. aureus is the most likely culprit pathogen.
In patients with poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis (group A Streptococcus, or Streptococcus pyogenes), there is a latent period between the resolution of the streptococcal infection and the acute onset of the nephritic syndrome, usually 7 to 10 days after oropharyngeal infections and 2 to 4 weeks after skin infections. In adults with non-poststreptococcal IRGN, the glomerulonephritis often coexists with the triggering infection. Sites of infection can include the upper and lower respiratory tract, skin/soft tissue, bone, teeth/oral mucosa, heart, deep abscesses, shunts, and indwelling catheters. Notably, this patient's kidney failure has occurred at the same time as the cellulitis, consistent with a staphylococcal-mediated form of IRGN.
Streptococcus pneumoniae is an uncommon cause of cellulitis, and Streptococcus agalactiae (group B Streptococcus) is capable of causing cellulitis in nonpregnant adults in special circumstances (lymphedema, vascular insufficiency, chronic dermatitis, or radiation-induced cutaneous injury). S. pyogenes and S. aureus are much more common causes of cellulitis, and the co-occurrence of the infection and IRGN points to S. aureus as the most likely culprit.

**Bibliography**

Glassock RJ, Alvarado A, Prosek J, Hebert C, Parikh S, Satoskar A, et al. Staphylococcus-related glomerulonephritis and poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis: why defining “post” is important in understanding and treating infection-related glomerulonephritis. Am J Kidney Dis. 2015;65:826-32. PMID: 25890425

This content was last updated in August 2018.