
### Correct Answer: D) Make no changes to antihypertensive medications 

**Educational Objective:** Recognize differing guideline recommendations for blood pressure targets in older patients.

#### **Key Point:** Based on evidence that the greatest absolute benefit of antihypertensive therapy is seen in patients with the highest blood pressure and cardiovascular risk, the American College of Physicians and American Academy of Family Physicians recommend that antihypertensive drugs be initiated in patients ≥60 years old if blood pressure is &gt;150/90 mm Hg, with a goal of reducing systolic blood pressure to &lt;150 mm Hg; the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association recommends a systolic blood pressure target of &lt;130 mm Hg in patients ≥65 years old.

According to target blood pressure goals recommended by the American College of Physicians and the American Academy of Family Physicians, this 72-year-old woman's blood pressure is at target, and no changes are necessary. This guideline recommends that antihypertensive drugs be initiated in patients ≥60 years old if blood pressure is >150/90 mm Hg, with a goal of reducing systolic blood pressure to <150 mm Hg to reduce the risk for mortality, stroke, and cardiac events. The guideline further recommends that physicians consider initiating or intensifying pharmacologic treatment in patients ≥60 years of age with a history of stroke or transient ischemic attack to achieve a target systolic blood pressure <140 mm Hg to reduce the risk for recurrent stroke. The guideline also recommends considering the initiation or intensification of pharmacologic treatment in some patients ≥60 years of age at high cardiovascular risk, based on individualized assessment, to achieve a target systolic blood pressure <140 mm Hg to reduce the risk for stroke or cardiac events. These recommendations are based on evidence that demonstrates the greatest absolute benefit of antihypertensive therapy is seen in patients with the highest blood pressure and cardiovascular risk.
On the other hand, the 2017 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association blood pressure guideline recommends a target systolic blood pressure goal of <130 mm Hg for noninstitutionalized, ambulatory community-dwelling patients ≥65 years of age. In those with a high burden of comorbidity and limited life expectancy, clinical judgment, patient preference, and an assessment of risk-benefit ratio should be considered for decisions about the intensity of blood pressure control and antihypertensive medication choice. This recommendation is based upon randomized controlled trials of antihypertensive therapy that have included large numbers of older persons, which demonstrated that more intensive treatment safely reduced the risk of cardiovascular disease for those ≥65 years of age.

**Bibliography**

Kansagara D, Wilt TJ, Frost J, et al. Pharmacologic Treatment of Hypertension in Adults Aged 60 Years or Older. Ann Intern Med. 2017;167:291-292. PMID: 28806807

This content was last updated in August 2018.