
### Correct Answer: D) Sevelamer 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hyperphosphatemia in a patient with stage G4 chronic kidney disease.

#### **Key Point:** Initial treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in chronic kidney disease stages G3 through G5 is correction of serum calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D levels.

Sevelamer is the most appropriate treatment for this patient with secondary hyperparathyroidism and hyperphosphatemia associated with stage G4 chronic kidney disease (CKD). Increased plasma parathyroid hormone (PTH) occurring as a result of CKD is referred to as secondary hyperparathyroidism. Increased PTH levels result in reduced calcium excretion and increased phosphorus excretion by the kidneys. Early in CKD, the PTH-induced increase in renal phosphorus excretion enables normal serum phosphorus levels despite reduced renal excretory capacity. However, as CKD progresses, the kidney is unable to compensate for the increased phosphorus, and phosphorus levels rise. This results in a vicious cycle as phosphorus stimulates PTH production. Initial treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in CKD stages G3 through G5 is correction of serum calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D levels. Current Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) guidelines recommend that elevated phosphorus levels should be lowered toward the normal range, not into the normal range, because there is an absence of data showing that efforts to maintain phosphorus in the normal range are of benefit to CKD stage G3a to G4. Thus, treatment should be aimed at overt hyperphosphatemia, and decisions to start phosphate-lowering treatment should be based solely on progressively or persistently elevated serum phosphorus levels. KDIGO guidelines also recommend avoiding hypercalcemia. In this patient, treatment of hyperphosphatemia with a phosphate binder and a low phosphorus diet is indicated. Sevelamer is a non–calcium-containing binder that might improve bone turnover, limit vascular calcification, and reduce all-cause mortality, compared with calcium-containing binders, although these potential benefits have not been consistently proven.
Aluminum hydroxide is an effective phosphate binder and is still used for very short-term treatment of severe secondary hyperparathyroidism. However, it would not be recommended in the chronic setting due to the toxic effects of aluminum (myalgia, weakness, osteomalacia, iron-resistant microcytic anemia, dementia), particularly because non–calcium-containing binders are now available.
This patient's 25-hydroxyvitamin D level is in the “sufficient” range. However, calcitriol may be warranted if hyperparathyroidism persists after normalization of serum calcium and phosphorus levels even in the setting of normal 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels, as impaired hydroxylation at the 1 position by the kidney can lead to functional deficiency.
Cinacalcet, a calcimimetic that decreases PTH levels, is currently FDA approved only for use in patients who are undergoing dialysis, although it has been used off-label for secondary hyperparathyroidism associated with hypercalcemia in cases in which use of vitamin D analogues has led to hypercalcemia.

**Bibliography**

Patel L, Bernard LM, Elder GJ. Sevelamer versus calcium-based binders for treatment of hyperphosphatemia in CKD: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2016;11:232-44. PMID: 26668024

This content was last updated in August 2018.