
### Correct Answer: B) Add potassium citrate 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent calcium oxalate stones using potassium citrate in a patient who has malabsorption.

#### **Key Point:** Potassium citrate can be used to help prevent calcium oxalate stones in patients with chronic diarrhea and malabsorption.

In addition to increasing fluid intake, potassium citrate is appropriate to prevent future calcium oxalate stones in this patient. Patients with chronic diarrhea and malabsorption are at increased risk for forming calcium oxalate stones for three reasons. First, because of the diarrhea and concomitant metabolic acidosis, urine citrate, an inhibitor of crystallization, is often reduced. In addition, volume depletion from the diarrhea decreases urine volume and thus increases the concentration of calcium and oxalate in the urine. Finally, in malabsorption, especially fat malabsorption as occurs in chronic pancreatitis, enteric calcium binds to fat as opposed to oxalate, leaving oxalate free to be absorbed and excreted in the urine. Although treatment should be based on the metabolic evaluation in this patient, his low urine pH and low serum bicarbonate level suggest that he has metabolic acidosis. Decreased systemic pH lowers urine citrate excretion. Supplementation with citrate as a base equivalent will help correct the acidosis and increase urine citrate, bind urinary calcium, and decrease the formation of calcium oxalate stones.
If the 24-hour urine metabolic evaluation showed elevated urine uric acid or if stone analysis revealed a uric acid nidus, allopurinol could be considered; however, in the absence of this information, allopurinol should not be prescribed.
Vitamin C increases urine oxalate excretion and would not have the desired effect of decreasing calcium oxalate stone formation.
Restricting dietary calcium intake in patients with hypercalciuria may paradoxically increase the risk of kidney stone formation by causing decreased binding of calcium with oxalate in the gut with increased absorption and urinary excretion of oxalate; therefore, dietary calcium should not be limited.
Increased protein intake increases glomerular filtration, and therefore the excretion of calcium, and would not contribute to decreased kidney stone formation. In addition, high protein diets may exacerbate hypocitraturia.

**Bibliography**

Pfau A, Knauf F. Update on nephrolithiasis: core curriculum 2016. Am J Kidney Dis. 2016;68:973-985. PMID: 27497526

This content was last updated in August 2018.