
### Correct Answer: C) Discontinue ibuprofen 

**Educational Objective:** Discontinue NSAIDs in a patient with elevated blood pressure.

#### **Key Point:** Many medications, such as NSAIDS, can result in reversible elevations in blood pressure; discontinuation of the drug and a reassessment of blood pressure 1 month later are necessary to confirm a return to normal blood pressure measurement.

The most appropriate management is to discontinue ibuprofen and measure the blood pressure (BP) in 1 month. The American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association BP guideline defines stage 1 hypertension as a systolic BP of 130 to 139 mm Hg or diastolic BP of 80 to 89 mm Hg. This change is based on epidemiologic studies that indicate systolic BP >115 mm Hg and diastolic BP >75 mm Hg are associated in a linear fashion with cardiovascular events. In the initial assessment of a patient with elevated BP, before a diagnosis of hypertension is made, it is imperative that a complete history with a list of prescription, nonprescription (including complementary and alternative medications such as herbals), and illicit drugs is elicited. NSAIDs are one of the medication classes that can result in reversible elevations in BP, the mechanism for which is increased sodium retention. Therefore, ibuprofen, an NSAID, should be discontinued and BP remeasured. If the patient has ongoing pain, an alternative pain management strategy that does not result in BP elevation, such as nondrug interventions, topical analgesics (if appropriate), or acetaminophen, should be prescribed because pain can also result in BP elevation.
This patient's elevated BP would need to be confirmed 1 month after discontinuation of ibuprofen before antihypertensive medications such as amlodipine or hydrochlorothiazide are started in this otherwise healthy young individual.
Antihistamines such as loratadine generally do not result in BP elevation; therefore, loratadine does not need to be discontinued in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Weir MR. In the clinic: hypertension. Ann Intern Med. 2014;161:ITC1-15; quiz ITC16. PMID: 25437425

This content was last updated in August 2018.