
### Correct Answer: C) Hepatitis C antibodies 

**Educational Objective:** Identify hepatitis C virus infection as the cause of membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis.

#### **Key Point:** An immune-complex membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis is the classic form of kidney involvement seen in patients with hepatitis C virus infection.

The most appropriate test to perform next is measurement of hepatitis C antibodies. This patient presents with glomerulonephritis (elevated serum creatinine level, hematuria, and subnephrotic proteinuria), which shows a membranoproliferative (MPGN) pattern on kidney biopsy. The new approach to MPGN lesions is a bifurcation based on the pattern of staining on immunofluorescence microscopy. The more common pattern, as seen in this patient, is immune-complex deposition with the presence of both immunoglobulin (IgG, IgM, and/or IgA) and complement (C1q and/or C3) on immunofluorescence, which infers that the classical pathway has been activated by an inciting cause or event that generally falls into one of three major categories: infectious, autoimmune, or malignancy associated. The most common is infectious, specifically infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV).
When an MPGN lesion on immunofluorescence microscopy shows only C3 staining (that is, without immunoglobulin or C1q staining), this extremely rare finding is suggestive of an antibody-independent means of complement activation and points to hyperactivity of the alternative complement pathway. In these C3 glomerulopathies, named based on the isolated C3 staining pattern seen on immunofluorescence, screening for genetic abnormalities in alternative complement pathway proteins is an appropriate part of the diagnostic evaluation.
Hepatitis B virus infection and HIV infection have been linked to glomerular diseases, but these are classically associated with the nephrotic syndrome, specifically membranous glomerulopathy with hepatitis B virus infection and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis with HIV infection.

**Bibliography**

Sethi S, Fervenza FC. Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis–a new look at an old entity. N Engl J Med. 2012;366:1119-31. PMID: 22435371

This content was last updated in August 2018.