
### Correct Answer: D) Lead nephropathy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose lead nephropathy.

#### **Key Point:** Lead nephropathy can occur in patients with occupational exposure to lead or exposure to lead in water, soil, paint, or food products; it is frequently associated with hyperuricemia, hypertension, and recurrent gouty attacks.

The most likely diagnosis is lead nephropathy, which causes a chronic tubulointerstitial disease after years of continuous or intermittent lead exposure. Lead nephropathy can occur in patients with occupational exposure to lead or exposure to lead in water, soil, paint, or food products. Chronic lead nephropathy is frequently associated with hyperuricemia, hypertension, and recurrent gouty attacks. This patient's lead exposure is likely due to lead-contaminated moonshine. Contamination occurs when lead-containing car radiators are used to condense the alcohol during the distilling process. The initial diagnostic test is measurement of blood lead levels, although lead levels may have normalized if exposure has been reduced or stopped.
Analgesic nephropathy occurs in patients with long-term excessive ingestion of analgesics such as aspirin, acetaminophen, and phenacetin, usually in combination. Patients frequently present with nocturia, sterile pyuria, hypertension, anemia, and chronic tubulointerstitial disease. This patient has no history of prolonged analgesic exposure.
Balkan nephropathy is a form of chronic tubulointerstitial disease that progresses to end-stage kidney disease in patients from southeastern Europe (Serbia, Bulgaria, Romania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Croatia). This patient is not from this region.
Cadmium nephropathy occurs in patients with prolonged exposure to plastic, metal, alloys, and electrical equipment manufacturing industries. Early manifestations are those of tubular dysfunction, including low-molecular-weight tubular proteinuria (for example, β2-microglobulin), aminoaciduria, renal glucosuria, and hypercalciuria. Patients can develop osteomalacia and nephrolithiasis. Clinically, patients present with hypertension, bone pain, and chronic kidney disease. This patient does not give any history of an occupation that would result in cadmium exposure.

**Bibliography**

Lin JL, Lin-Tan DT, Li YJ, Chen KH, Huang YL. Low-level environmental exposure to lead and progressive chronic kidney diseases. Am J Med. 2006;119:707.e1-9. PMID: 16887418

This content was last updated in August 2018.