
### Correct Answer: A) Laxative abuse 

**Educational Objective:** Identify laxative abuse as a cause of a normal anion gap metabolic acidosis.

#### **Key Point:** Normal anion gap metabolic acidosis can be caused by gastrointestinal bicarbonate loss, renal loss of bicarbonate, or the inability of the kidney to excrete acid.

Laxative abuse is the most likely cause of this patient's normal anion gap metabolic acidosis. Normal anion gap metabolic acidosis can be caused by gastrointestinal bicarbonate loss, renal loss of bicarbonate, or the inability of the kidney to excrete acid. The normal physiologic response to systemic acidosis is an increase in urine acid excretion. Therefore, an initial diagnostic step in normal anion gap metabolic acidosis is to determine whether the kidney is appropriately excreting acid or whether impaired kidney acid excretion is the cause of the metabolic acidosis. Increased acid excretion by the kidney is reflected as a marked increase in urine ammonium. However, urine ammonium is difficult to measure directly. Because ammonium carries a positive charge, chloride is excreted into the urine in equal amounts with ammonium to maintain electrical neutrality. Therefore, the amount of chloride in the urine reflects the amount of ammonium present, and the urine anion gap can be used as an indicator of the ability of the kidney to excrete acid. The urine anion gap is calculated as follows:
Urine Anion Gap = (Urine Sodium + Urine Potassium) – Urine Chloride
In the context of increased urinary ammonium excretion, therefore, the urine anion gap will be negative. The negative urine anion gap in this patient (-6 mEq/L [-6 mmol/L]) suggests a gastrointestinal cause of the normal anion gap metabolic acidosis, and laxative abuse is a possible, even likely explanation. In addition, the low urine potassium indicates appropriate renal compensation in context of laxative-induced hypokalemia.
Vomiting and gastric acid loss result in metabolic alkalosis, not metabolic acidosis.
Renal causes of normal anion gap metabolic acidosis are due to specific defects in renal handling of bicarbonate reclamation (type 2/proximal RTA) or in hydrogen ion secretion (type 1/hypokalemic distal RTA). Type 1 (hypokalemic distal) RTA is caused by a defect in hydrogen secretion and a consequent decrease in ammonium excretion, and is therefore associated with a positive urine anion gap; it is also characterized by high urine potassium secretion and hypokalemia. Type 4 (hyperkalemic distal) RTA is usually caused by aldosterone deficiency or resistance and is characterized by a high serum potassium and positive urine anion gap.

**Bibliography**

Rastegar M, Nagami GT. Non-anion gap metabolic acidosis: a clinical approach to evaluation. Am J Kidney Dis. 2017;69:296-301. PMID: 28029394

This content was last updated in August 2018.