
### Correct Answer: B) Kidney biopsy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose the cause of acute kidney injury with a kidney biopsy.

#### **Key Point:** Kidney biopsy should be considered in patients with acute kidney injury from no apparent or unclear cause, suspected glomerulonephritis, or unexplained systemic disease.

The most appropriate next step in the evaluation of this patient's acute kidney injury (AKI) is a kidney biopsy. This patient with sepsis has developed AKI that has continued to worsen despite discontinuation of antibiotics 4 days ago. His urinalysis is notable for hematuria, pyuria, and proteinuria. The differential diagnosis includes ischemic or toxic acute tubular necrosis in the setting of hypotension, acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) from antibiotics or a proton pump inhibitor, and infection-associated glomerulonephritis. Given multiple potential contributing factors, a kidney biopsy is necessary to differentiate.
Glucocorticoids would be indicated if AIN is identified on biopsy, but empiric therapy is not justified because other causes may be contributing to his AKI. Moreover, glucocorticoids can cause significant adverse side effects, including worsening glycemic control in a patient with diabetes mellitus. If AIN is confirmed on kidney biopsy, a trial of glucocorticoids can be considered.
Prerenal AKI results from decreased renal perfusion and will typically respond to restoration of effective arterial circulation. However, the patient has no findings of hypoperfusion, and the elevated fractional excretion of sodium argues against this diagnosis (typically <1%) and the need for a fluid challenge. Such an intervention may be deleterious in a patient with oliguric AKI.
Postrenal AKI results from urinary tract obstruction. Bladder outlet obstruction should be suspected in patients with prostate enlargement or in the setting of diabetes mellitus (neurogenic bladder), pain medications, or anticholinergic medications. This patient's kidney ultrasound does not show obstruction; therefore, placement of a urinary catheter is not appropriate and would increase his risk of catheter-associated urinary tract infection.

**Bibliography**

Levey AS, James MT. Acute kidney injury. Ann Intern Med. 2017;167:ITC66-ITC80. PMID: 29114754

This content was last updated in August 2018.