
### Correct Answer: B) Genetic counseling 

**Educational Objective:** Recognize the role of genetic counseling in the diagnosis and management of hereditary nephritis.

#### **Key Point:** The diagnosis of hereditary nephritis is confirmed with kidney biopsy, skin biopsy, or molecular genetic analysis.

Genetic counseling potentially followed by genetic testing for hereditary nephritis (Alport syndrome) is appropriate for this patient. Hereditary nephritis is a familial form of glomerulonephritis that affects approximately 0.4% of U.S. adults. The earliest presentation is microscopic hematuria, with or without proteinuria. Heavier proteinuria, hypertension, and chronic kidney disease usually develop over time, with end-stage kidney disease occurring between the late teenage years and the fourth decade of life. There are three genetic variants: X-linked (80%), autosomal recessive (15%), and autosomal dominant (5%). This patient's family history fits the X-linked version of disease. Her mother and maternal grandmother are asymptomatic carriers; each has a 50% chance of passing the affected gene to male offspring (in this family, the maternal uncle and the patient's older brother), and their daughters likewise have a 50% chance of carrying the gene. Almost all female heterozygotes have some degree of hematuria. Females with the X-linked variant can develop kidney disease depending on activity of the X chromosome in somatic renal cells (lyonization), but that does not appear to be the case in this family. Given widespread access to genetic testing, in patients with a clearly documented family history and abnormal urinary findings, the diagnosis of hereditary nephritis is now increasingly being made by the noninvasive route using genetic testing. Genetic testing is the only way to diagnose a female with a family history of X-linked hereditary nephritis, such as this patient.
Hereditary nephritis is accompanied by sensorineural hearing loss that can be subtle and only picked up by audiometry, but this complication would not be expected in an asymptomatic carrier, such as this patient.
The diagnosis of hereditary nephritis for affected patients has traditionally been made by the more invasive route of kidney biopsy, with electron microscopy required for the hallmark finding of prominent thickening and lamellation of the glomerular basement membrane (a basket-weave appearance). Other than the expected microscopic hematuria, this patient has normal kidney function and does not require a kidney biopsy.
A diagnostic skin biopsy can be performed when X-linked hereditary nephritis is suspected. Type IV collagen alpha-5 chain (COL4A5) is normally present in the skin, and approximately 60% to 80% of patients with X-linked hereditary nephritis will show abnormal staining for COL4A5 in the skin biopsy, although these findings would not be expected in an asymptomatic carrier.

**Bibliography**

Gross O, Kashtan CE, Rheault MN, Flinter F, Savige J, Miner JH, et al. Advances and unmet needs in genetic, basic and clinical science in Alport syndrome: report from the 2015 International Workshop on Alport Syndrome. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2017;32:916-924. PMID: 27190345

This content was last updated in August 2018.