
### Correct Answer: A) Calcium oxalate 

**Educational Objective:** Identify the composition of a kidney stone in a patient with Crohn disease.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with diarrhea who are volume depleted and have a metabolic acidosis are at increased risk for developing kidney stones, particularly calcium oxalate stones and, less commonly, uric acid stones.

The most likely composition of this patient's kidney stone is calcium oxalate. This patient has classic symptoms of renal colic, including flank pain that radiates to the groin. Stone movement may result in pain migration to the genitalia. Nausea, vomiting, and dysuria may also be present. Microscopic hematuria is usually noted, although its absence does not exclude a stone. Patients with diarrhea who are volume depleted and have a metabolic acidosis are at increased risk for developing a kidney stone, particularly stones composed of calcium oxalate and uric acid. In this patient with Crohn disease and chronic diarrhea, the most likely composition of the stone is calcium oxalate because the chronic metabolic acidosis (suggested by the low serum bicarbonate concentration and relatively low urine pH) increases calcium loss from bone and decreases citrate excretion. Citrate is the major inhibitor of calcium crystallization in the urine. In addition, if there is concomitant fat malabsorption, a common occurrence in inflammatory bowel disease, calcium will bind to fat in the gut, allowing increased absorption of oxalate.
Struvite stones are composed of magnesium ammonium phosphate (struvite) and calcium carbonate-apatite and occur in the presence of urea-splitting bacteria, such as Proteus or Klebsiella, in the upper urinary tract. These organisms convert urea to ammonium, which alkalinizes the urine, decreases the solubility of phosphate, and leads to struvite precipitation. Struvite stones can rapidly enlarge to fill the entire renal pelvis within weeks to months, taking on a characteristic “staghorn” shape. Calcium phosphate stones also form in alkaline urine. The low urine pH and absence of signs of infection on urinalysis make these diagnoses unlikely.
Cystine stones are caused by cystinuria, a rare autosomal recessive disorder of proximal tubular transport of dibasic amino acids such as cystine that presents at a young age.
The main risk factor for uric acid stones is low urine pH, usually ≤5.0, which decreases the solubility of uric acid. Hyperuricosuria is not a consistent finding. Comorbid risk factors for uric acid stones include gout, diabetes mellitus, the metabolic syndrome, and chronic diarrhea.

**Bibliography**

Worcester EM, Coe FL. Clinical practice. Calcium kidney stones. N Engl J Med. 2010;363:954-63. PMID: 20818905

This content was last updated in August 2018.