
### Correct Answer: A) D-Lactic acidosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose D-lactic acidosis.

#### **Key Point:** D-lactic acidosis is characterized by an increased anion gap metabolic acidosis in patients with short-bowel syndrome or other forms of malabsorption; diagnosis is confirmed by measuring the D-lactate level rather than the conventional L-lactate level.

The most likely diagnosis is D-lactic acidosis. D-lactic acidosis is an unusual cause of lactic acidosis that presents with an increased anion gap metabolic acidosis in patients with short-bowel syndrome, mostly in the context of small-bowel resection or jejunoileal bypass. D-lactate may accumulate when excess carbohydrates reach the colon and are metabolized to D-lactate by bacteria. Therefore, it is sometimes manifested after a large carbohydrate load. D-lactate is the stereoisomer of L-lactate, the isomer usually responsible for lactic acidosis. The conventional lactate assay measures the L-lactate isomer, and therefore lactic acid levels in this case are normal. Characteristic symptoms include intermittent confusion, slurred speech, and ataxia. The diagnosis should therefore be considered in a patient with characteristic neurologic findings who presents with an increased anion gap metabolic acidosis, normal lactate level, negative ketones, and short-bowel syndrome or other forms of malabsorption; it is confirmed by measuring a D-lactate level.
Ethylene glycol or methanol intoxication also presents with an increased anion gap metabolic acidosis and neurologic symptoms. However, they are usually accompanied by a serum osmolal gap >10 mOsm/kg H2O (6 mOsm/kg H2O in this case) and a serum bicarbonate level <10 mEq/L (10 mmol/L). The serum osmolal gap is calculated as the difference between the measured osmolality and calculated osmolality, which is determined as follows:
Serum Osmolality (mOsm/kg H2O) = (2 × Serum Sodium [mEq/L]) + Plasma Glucose (mg/dL)/18 + Blood Urea Nitrogen (mg/dL)/2.8
Pyroglutamic acidosis also manifests as mental status changes in the context of an increased anion gap. This acidosis occurs in patients chronically receiving therapeutic doses of acetaminophen. Susceptible patients are those with critical illness, poor nutrition, liver disease, and chronic kidney disease, as well as those on a strict vegetarian diet. Diagnosis can be confirmed by measuring urine levels of pyroglutamic acid. This patient's history does not include acetaminophen ingestion and is more consistent with a D-lactic acidosis.

**Bibliography**

Seheult J, Fitzpatrick G, Boran G. Lactic acidosis: an update. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2017;55:322-333. PMID: 27522622

This content was last updated in August 2018.