
### Correct Answer: B) Discontinue losartan 

**Educational Objective:** Manage chronic hypertension prior to conception.

#### **Key Point:** The renin-angiotensin system agents (ACE inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers, and direct renin inhibitors) are contraindicated in pregnancy and should be stopped prior to conception.

Discontinuation of the angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) losartan is necessary for this patient who anticipates pregnancy. The renin-angiotensin system agents (ACE inhibitors, ARBs, and direct renin inhibitors) are contraindicated in pregnancy and should be stopped prior to conception. Exposure during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy has been associated with neonatal kidney failure and death. Although the level of risk for first trimester exposure is controversial, studies have suggested an association with cardiac abnormalities, and consensus is to stop these drugs prior to pregnancy. In patients with chronic hypertension, the 2013 American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists guidelines recommend a goal blood pressure during pregnancy of 120-160/80-105 mm Hg. Antihypertensive treatment reduces the risk of progression to severe hypertension by 50% compared with placebo but has not been shown to prevent preeclampsia, preterm birth, small size for gestational age, or infant mortality. This patient's blood pressure is well below this goal of therapy, and her blood pressure would be expected to decline during pregnancy. Therefore, monitoring her blood pressure after discontinuation of losartan is a reasonable approach. If her blood pressure rises, initiation of a drug that is safe during pregnancy is recommended. Candidate drugs include methyldopa, nifedipine, and/or labetalol. No specific agent is first choice because no data support one over another. Therapeutic classes are not recommended because potential toxicity differs among agents within classes.
Diuretics may be continued in pregnancy, particularly if the woman is already taking them prior to pregnancy. If blood pressure remains low through the first trimester of pregnancy, the dose of the diuretic may be lowered. Although one could consider discontinuation of the diuretic if the patient's blood pressure remains within at or below target, there is no contraindication to its use.
Because ARBs and ACE inhibitors are contraindicated in pregnancy and carry similar risk, switching to the ACE inhibitor lisinopril is not recommended.
Although risks are less during the first trimester, recent data regarding first trimester risk of exposure suggest that the safest approach is to discontinue a renin-angiotensin system agent prior to conception. Waiting until the patient is pregnant is not recommended.

**Bibliography**

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, Casey DE Jr, Collins KJ, Dennison Himmelfarb C, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention, detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Hypertension. 2017. PMID: 29133356

This content was last updated in August 2018.