
### Correct Answer: A) Kidney ultrasonography 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease as a secondary cause of hypertension.

#### **Key Point:** Hypertension is common in patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), often preceding chronic kidney disease; kidney ultrasonography is the most common and least costly screening and diagnostic method for ADPKD.

Kidney ultrasonography is the most appropriate diagnostic test to perform in this patient. The presence of hypertension, microhematuria, and a positive family history of chronic kidney disease requiring dialysis, as well as a brain aneurysm, raises clinical suspicion for autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). Clinical manifestations of ADPKD include gradual kidney enlargement, which may cause persistent abdominal pain and/or early satiety. Hypertension is common in patients with ADPKD, often preceding chronic kidney disease. Kidney cyst enlargement leads to stimulation of the intrarenal and circulating renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. More than 50% of patients with ADPKD develop recurrent flank or back pain; causes include kidney stones, cyst rupture or hemorrhage, or infection. Nephrolithiasis occurs in approximately 20% of patients. A ruptured intracranial cerebral aneurysm resulting in a subarachnoid or intracerebral hemorrhage is the most serious extrarenal complication of ADPKD. Kidney ultrasonography is the most common and least costly screening and diagnostic method for ADPKD; it would reveal bilaterally enlarged kidneys with multiple cysts.
Calculation of the plasma aldosterone concentration/plasma renin activity ratio is used to screen for primary hyperaldosteronism, characterized by a triad of resistant hypertension, metabolic alkalosis, and hypokalemia. Although <50% of patients with primary hyperaldosteronism manifest hypokalemia, this diagnosis cannot account for the patient's flank fullness on palpation and hematuria or his family history of kidney failure.
Plasma fractionated metanephrines are obtained to screen for a pheochromocytoma, which could result in hypertension, but this patient has no symptoms or signs (for example, resistant hypertension, headaches, sweating) to indicate the presence of this tumor, and this diagnosis cannot account for the patient's flank fullness and hematuria.
Although hyperthyroidism can be a secondary cause of hypertension, the patient does not manifest any symptoms or signs (heat intolerance, resting tachycardia, thyromegaly) to suggest this, making measurement of thyroid-stimulating hormone unnecessary.

**Bibliography**

Krishnappa V, Vinod P, Deverakonda D, Raina R. Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease and the heart and brain. Cleve Clin J Med. 2017;84:471-481. PMID: 28628430

This content was last updated in August 2018.