
### Correct Answer: A) Add an ACE inhibitor 

**Educational Objective:** Treat diabetic nephropathy.

#### **Key Point:** The best predictors for the presence of diabetic nephropathy are duration of diabetes mellitus for more than 8 years followed by the presence of the nephrotic syndrome.

The addition of an ACE inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) is the most appropriate management for this patient with diabetic nephropathy. The hallmark clinical features include a proteinuric form of chronic kidney disease in a patient with long-standing diabetes mellitus and evidence of other (microvascular and/or macrovascular) complications of disease. Diagnosis can be made clinically for this patient, and he can be treated with the cornerstone of treatment: improved glucose control, and blockade of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) with an ACE inhibitor or ARB using the maximal tolerated dose. Combined use of any RAS drug class (ACE inhibitors, ARBs, and direct renin inhibitors) is not recommended; several clinical trials have revealed more adverse events with these combinations (hyperkalemia, hypotension, acute kidney injury), without additional cardiovascular or renal benefits. However, for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney disease, the American Diabetes Association recommends that physicians consider use of a sodium–glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor for patients with an estimated glomerular filtration rate >30 mL/min/1.73 m2 and a urine albumin-creatinine ratio >30 mg/g. The recommendation is more strongly advised in patients with higher-grade albuminuria (urine albumin-creatinine ratio >300 mg/g) in which the sodium–glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor will reduce progression of kidney disease and/or cardiovascular events. In patients with chronic kidney disease who are at increased risk for cardiovascular events, use of a glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonist may reduce risk of progression of albuminuria, cardiovascular events, or both.
ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis is associated with the nephritic syndrome. The nephritic syndrome is characterized by hematuria, proteinuria, and leukocytes in the urine sediment. The hallmark is the presence of dysmorphic erythrocytes, with or without erythrocyte casts. Systemic findings may include edema, hypertension, and kidney failure. This patient does not have hematuria, making ANCA testing unnecessary.
Serum and urine protein electrophoresis is used to evaluate for kidney failure secondary to dysproteinemia, which is more common in older patients (>65 years of age). Other potential clues to the presence of dysproteinemia-related kidney disease include anemia, hypercalcemia, and evidence of proximal tubular dysfunction such as hypokalemia, metabolic acidosis, hypophosphatemia, glycosuria (with normoglycemia), or hypouricemia.
The diagnosis of diabetic nephropathy usually does not require a kidney biopsy if the clinical presentation is consistent with its diagnosis. The best predictors of finding diabetic nephropathy are duration of diabetes for more than 8 years followed by presence of the nephrotic syndrome. Therefore, this patient with a 10-year history of poorly controlled diabetes, nephrotic-range proteinuria, and findings of microvascular and macrovascular complications does not require a kidney biopsy or other testing to confirm the diagnosis of diabetic nephropathy.

**Bibliography**

Wylie EC, Satchell SC. Diabetic nephropathy. Clin Med (Lond). 2012;12:480-2; quiz 483-5. PMID: 23101153

This content was last updated in October 2020.