
### Correct Answer: B) Discontinue mycophenolate mofetil; begin azathioprine 

**Educational Objective:** Discontinue mycophenolate mofetil in a woman who is planning pregnancy.

#### **Key Point:** In kidney transplant recipients who are planning pregnancy, mycophenolate mofetil, sirolimus, and everolimus must be discontinued 3 to 6 months prior to conception and replaced with azathioprine, which is generally safer and well tolerated in pregnancy.

The most appropriate management for this kidney transplant recipient who is planning pregnancy is to discontinue mycophenolate mofetil and begin azathioprine. Fertility increases after kidney transplantation, although fertility rates remain lower and pregnancy complications are higher compared with the general population. Pregnancy planning for a kidney transplant recipient is essential to improve outcomes and includes adjusting medications and optimizing clinical status. Kidney transplant recipients should wait 1 to 2 years with a stable allograft before attempting conception. Other comorbid conditions (such as systemic lupus erythematosus) should also be stable prior to conception. Outcomes are improved with better allograft function (serum creatinine <1.5 mg/dL [132.6 µmol/L]) and stable immunosuppression. Mycophenolate mofetil (as well as sirolimus and everolimus) is teratogenic and needs to be replaced 3 to 6 months prior to conception with azathioprine, which is generally safer and well tolerated in pregnancy.
Calcineurin inhibitors (both tacrolimus and cyclosporine) have been used safely in pregnancy. Therefore, tacrolimus does not need to be discontinued and replaced with cyclosporine in this patient.
Although this would constitute a high-risk pregnancy, the success rate of pregnancies in patients with kidney transplants is high; with stable allograft function, a normotensive patient and her fetus have favorable prognoses, and therefore the patient could proceed with pregnancy following modification of her maintenance immunosuppression regimen.

**Bibliography**

Hou S. Pregnancy in renal transplant recipients. Adv Chronic Kidney Dis. 2013;20:253-9. PMID: 23928390

This content was last updated in August 2018.