
### Correct Answer: A) Light chain cast nephropathy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose light chain cast nephropathy in a patient with multiple myeloma.

#### **Key Point:** Clinical clues to the diagnosis of light chain cast nephropathy from multiple myeloma include an elevated urine protein-creatinine ratio with minimal proteinuria by urine dipstick, anemia, and hypercalcemia.

The most likely diagnosis is light chain cast nephropathy in this patient with multiple myeloma. In multiple myeloma, acute kidney injury from light chain cast nephropathy is the most common type of kidney disease. Cast nephropathy is characterized by intratubular obstruction with light chain casts that can result in acute tubular injury. A clinical clue to the diagnosis is the presence of an elevated urine protein-creatinine ratio, with minimal proteinuria detected by dipstick urinalysis (dipstick urinalysis detects albumin but not light chains). Other supporting findings are the presence of anemia and hypercalcemia (when calcium measurement is corrected for albumin).
Exposure to NSAIDs can cause tubular injury. However, NSAIDs do not cause a discrepancy in proteinuria between urinalysis and urine protein-creatinine ratio.
Renal sarcoidosis can result in tubulointerstitial dysfunction. Other kidney manifestations include direct ureteral involvement, retroperitoneal fibrosis, and, more commonly, hypercalcemia, hypercalciuria, nephrolithiasis, and nephrocalcinosis via excessive production of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D in granulomas. However, renal sarcoidosis is rare in patients without thoracic sarcoidosis and cannot account for the discrepancy in proteinuria between urinalysis and urine protein-creatinine ratio.
Uric acid nephropathy is unlikely given the modest elevation in the serum urate level. Furthermore, an elevated urine protein-creatinine ratio is not consistent with uric acid nephropathy.

**Bibliography**

Heher EC, Rennke HG, Laubach JP, Richardson PG. Kidney disease and multiple myeloma. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2013;8:2007-17. PMID: 23868898

This content was last updated in August 2018.