
### Correct Answer: B) IgA nephropathy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose IgA nephropathy.

#### **Key Point:** A classic presentation of IgA nephropathy is recurrent gross hematuria that occurs concomitantly or within days after an upper respiratory infection or physical exertion and usually follows a benign course.

IgA nephropathy is the most likely diagnosis. Recurrent gross hematuria, in which macroscopic hematuria occurs concomitantly or within days after an upper respiratory infection (synpharyngitic nephritis) or physical exertion, is a classic presentation of IgA nephropathy, particularly in younger patients. This nephritic presentation usually follows a benign clinical course without associated kidney insufficiency, although in a minority of cases intraluminal obstructive erythrocyte casts can be a cause of moderate to severe acute kidney injury that typically responds to supportive care measures. The diagnosis of IgA nephropathy can only be made by kidney biopsy, but some clinicians will make an empiric diagnosis for young patients with a classic history of recurrent gross hematuria, negative imaging for masses/stones, and normal kidney function with little to no proteinuria.
IgA vasculitis (Henoch-Schönlein purpura) is the most common childhood vasculitis and tends to appear after upper respiratory infections. IgA vasculitis is rarer among adults. Characteristic symptoms are abdominal pain and palpable purpura. Gastrointestinal ischemia may be severe enough to cause intestinal bleeding. Arthritis is common, other organ systems may be involved, and patients may present with glomerulonephritis. The patient's recurrent symptoms, lack of additional findings, benign clinical course, and urine findings are not compatible with a diagnosis of IgA vasculitis.
Lupus nephritis and postinfectious glomerulonephritis can present with macroscopic glomerular hematuria, but these disease states usually induce low complement levels (low C3 with or without low C4). Postinfectious glomerulonephritis, when associated with upper respiratory infections caused by streptococcal organisms, usually occurs 2 to 3 weeks after the resolution of the streptococcal infection. In the developed world, it is more common to see peri-infectious glomerulonephritis associated with staphylococcal infections (usually skin infections), with onset at the time of infection, but these are not usually associated with gross hematuria or a recurrent history of such episodes.

**Bibliography**

Lai KN, Tang SC, Schena FP, Novak J, Tomino Y, Fogo AB, et al. IgA nephropathy. Nat Rev Dis Primers. 2016;2:16001. PMID: 27189177

This content was last updated in August 2018.