
### Correct Answer: D) Respiratory alkalosis, increased anion gap metabolic acidosis, and metabolic alkalosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose a complex mixed acid-base disorder.

#### **Key Point:** Interpretation of acid-base disorders requires the identification of the likely dominant acid-base disorder, followed by an assessment of the compensatory response; when measured values fall outside the range of the predicted compensatory response, a mixed acid-base disorder is considered present.

The most likely diagnosis is a complex mixed acid-base disorder consisting of respiratory alkalosis, increased anion gap metabolic acidosis, and metabolic alkalosis. Interpretation of acid-base disorders requires the identification of the likely dominant acid-base disorder, followed by an assessment of the compensatory response. When measured values fall outside the expected compensatory range, a mixed acid-base disorder is considered present. Multiple acid-base disturbances may coexist, as seen in this patient.
Because the blood pH is 7.56, the patient's dominant acid-base disorder is an alkalosis. The low PCO2 indicates a respiratory component to the alkalosis. The expected metabolic compensation for chronic respiratory alkalosis is a reduction in the serum bicarbonate of 4 to 5 mEq/L (4-5 mmol/L) for each 10 mm Hg (1.3 kPa) decrease in the PCO2(in this case, the decrease in PCO2 is 20 mm Hg [2.7 kPa]). The expected serum bicarbonate concentration in this patient is calculated as follows:
Normal Bicarbonate − Expected Compensation
24 − (8-10) mEq/L (mmol/L) = 14-16 mEq/L (14-16 mmol/L)
Because the measured bicarbonate of 20 mEq/L (20 mmol/L) is higher than expected, this suggests coexistence of a metabolic alkalosis.
An elevated anion gap is also present, indicating the presence of an increased anion gap metabolic acidosis. Assessing the ratio of the change in the anion gap (Δ anion gap) to the change in bicarbonate level (Δ bicarbonate), or the “delta-delta (Δ-Δ) ratio,” may indicate the presence of a coexistent acid-base disturbance. A ratio of <0.5 to 1 may reflect the presence of concurrent normal anion gap metabolic acidosis, whereas a ratio >2 may indicate the presence of metabolic alkalosis. This patient's Δ-Δ ratio is 2.5 [Δ anion gap/Δ bicarbonate = (22 − 12)/(24 − 20) = 2.5], confirming the coexistence of the metabolic alkalosis.
The clinical situation most likely to present with this acid-base disorder is salicylate toxicity. Central hyperventilation from salicylate will cause the respiratory alkalosis; salicylate itself will cause the anion gap metabolic acidosis; and vomiting will cause the metabolic alkalosis.

**Bibliography**

Seifter JL, Chang HY. Disorders of acid-base balance: new perspectives. Kidney Dis (Basel). 2017;2:170-186. PMID: 28232934

This content was last updated in August 2018.