
### Correct Answer: D) Obtain a urine protein electrophoresis 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate proteinuria in the absence of albuminuria.

#### **Key Point:** The presence of significant measured proteinuria in the context of minimal proteinuria on urine dipstick suggests the presence of Bence-Jones (light chain) proteinuria, which can be confirmed by a urine protein electrophoresis.

The most appropriate next step in management is to obtain a urine protein electrophoresis. Albumin is the predominant protein detected on urine dipstick, which detects albumin excretion graded as trace (10-30 mg/dL), 1+ (30 mg/dL), 2+ (100 mg/dL), 3+ (300 mg/dL), and 4+ (>1000 mg/dL). Highly alkaline urine specimens can produce false-positive results on dipstick testing for protein. The sulfosalicylic acid (SSA) test can be used to detect the presence of not only albumin but also other proteins that are not detected with the urine dipstick, such as urine light chains or immunoglobulins. The possibility of cast nephropathy should be raised in patients with acute kidney injury and anemia when the urine dipstick reads negative or trace for protein, but the urine shows increased positivity for protein by the SSA test or by measuring the urine protein-creatinine ratio. Although these findings are most concerning for myeloma cast nephropathy, light chains are associated with other renal findings such as proximal tubulopathy. Proximal tubule involvement may be associated with hypophosphatemia and glucosuria (Fanconi syndrome).
Omeprazole and other proton pump inhibitors are well-described causes of acute interstitial nephritis. Although this is possible, this patient's proteinuria patterns are far more consistent with multiple myeloma.
Although a 24-hour urine collection is likely to provide a more accurate assessment of the total urine protein, the urine protein-creatinine ratio is sufficiently accurate to determine the presence of proteinuria.
Noncontrast helical abdominal CT may be helpful if the presence of a stone or mass in the kidney is suspected; however, in the absence of flank pain or hematuria, this imaging study is unlikely to provide additional diagnostic information.

**Bibliography**

Simerville JA, Maxted WC, Pahira JJ. Urinalysis: a comprehensive review. Am Fam Physician. 2005;71:1153-62. PMID: 15791892

This content was last updated in August 2018.