
### Correct Answer: D) Kidney transplant evaluation 

**Educational Objective:** Refer a patient with chronic kidney disease for kidney transplant evaluation.

#### **Key Point:** Referral for kidney transplant evaluation is indicated when the estimated glomerular filtration rate is &lt;30 mL/min/1.73 m2 to allow for adequate time to identify suitable living donors or to be put on an early listing if no living donor is available.

Kidney transplant evaluation is the most appropriate management for this patient with stage G4 chronic kidney disease (CKD). Referral to a kidney transplant center is indicated when the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) is <30 mL/min/1.73 m2. Kidney transplantation is the preferred treatment for patients with end-stage kidney disease, because it improves life expectancy and quality of life. It also provides a significant cost savings to the health care system compared with maintaining a patient on dialysis. Early referral allows adequate time to identify suitable living donors. If no living donor is available, early listing is essential to begin the waiting process for a deceased-donor kidney. Patients undergo an extensive health screening to identify potential issues that may affect the safety and/or outcome of the transplant. In the potential recipient, these include active malignancy, coronary ischemia, or active infections. An adequate social support system and financial resources also are important to ensure medication adherence and long-term survival of the transplanted allograft.
Patients with stage G4 chronic kidney disease should be seen at least every 3 months, not 6 months. More importantly, clinical follow-up alone does not address the immediate problem of planning for renal replacement therapy, ideally with kidney transplantation.
Fistulography is not indicated because physical examination findings suggest that the fistula is mature and may be ready to use for hemodialysis. Invasive imaging is not required to confirm patency unless physical examination findings suggest a problem. Additionally, fistulography exposes the patient to nephrotoxic iodinated contrast and may reduce residual kidney function.
Although this patient has an arteriovenous fistula, hemodialysis is not indicated at this time because she has normal serum potassium and bicarbonate levels, does not have significant volume overload, and does not have uremic symptoms. Several recent studies have demonstrated no benefit in starting dialysis in asymptomatic patients early based upon an arbitrary eGFR cutoff compared with waiting until patients develop very low eGFR (<8-10 mL/min/1.73 m2) or clinical indications for dialysis are present.

**Bibliography**

Educational Guidance on Patient Referral to Kidney Transplantation-Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network, US Department of Health and Human Services. Available at: https://optn.transplant.hrsa.gov/resources/guidance/educational-guidance-on-patient-referral-to-kidney-transplantation/. Accessed October 30, 2017.

This content was last updated in September 2019.