
### Correct Answer: C) Octreotide and oral midodrine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat type 1 hepatorenal syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** General management of type 1 hepatorenal syndrome includes discontinuing diuretics, volume replacement with albumin, and use of vasoconstrictors.

Vasoconstrictor therapy with octreotide and oral midodrine is appropriate for this patient with type 1 hepatorenal syndrome (HRS). Type 1 HRS is a clinical diagnosis made after exclusion of other causes of kidney dysfunction. It is characterized by a rise in serum creatinine of at least 0.3 mg/dL (26.5 µmol/L) and/or ≥50% from baseline within 48 hours, bland urinalysis, and normal findings on kidney ultrasound. It is also supported by a lack of improvement in kidney function after withdrawal of diuretics and 2 days of volume expansion with intravenous albumin. Often, patients also have low urine sodium, low fractional excretion of sodium, and oliguria. Type 2 HRS is defined as a more gradual decline in kidney function associated with refractory ascites. General management of type 1 HRS includes discontinuing diuretics, restricting sodium, restricting water in hyponatremic patients, and searching for precipitating factors. Initial therapeutic interventions include treatment with vasoconstrictors in conjunction with intravenous albumin.
Dialysis should be initiated only if the patient does not respond to HRS medical therapy with midodrine and octreotide and/or if indications for dialysis develop. Absolute indications for dialysis include hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, and pulmonary edema refractory to medical therapy; uremic symptoms; uremic pericarditis; and certain drug intoxications. Currently, this patient has no acute indications for dialysis.
The patient was volume expanded with intravenous albumin, which should have corrected hypovolemia. Furthermore, she is not volume depleted on physical examination, has edema and ascites, and has stable blood pressure without tachycardia. Therefore, intravenous fluids are not indicated.
The transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt is primarily used to treat variceal hemorrhage and ascites. It has been used as a last resort in the treatment of refractory ascites in highly selected patients with HRS who do not respond to medical therapy and who are awaiting liver transplantation. Complications include an increase in the rate of hepatic encephalopathy and risk of kidney injury associated with intravenous contrast. This procedure is not indicated at this time.

**Bibliography**

Colle I, Laterre PF. Hepatorenal syndrome: the clinical impact of vasoactive therapy. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2018;12:173-188. PMID: 29258378

This content was last updated in August 2018.