
### Correct Answer: D) Osmotic diuresis 

**Educational Objective:** Identify urea osmotic diuresis as a cause of hypernatremia.

#### **Key Point:** Hypernatremia may be caused by osmotic diuresis, in which the urine osmolality is usually between 300 and 600 mOsm/kg H2O.

Urea osmotic diuresis is the most likely cause of this patient's hypernatremia. This patient is recovering from acute kidney injury and is having a urea diuresis, with an elevated urine osmolality of 420 mOsm/kg H2O. In osmotic diuresis, urine osmolality is usually between 300 and 600 mOsm/kg H2O. The majority of the osmolality of the urine is made up of nonelectrolytes. This loss of electrolyte-free water is causing her serum sodium level to increase. The two major nonelectrolytes found in urine are urea and glucose. Her glucose is only 136 mg/dL (7.5 mmol/L), below the threshold for glucose appearing in the urine; therefore, the likely cause is excretion of urea. This can be confirmed by measuring urea in the urine.
Hyponatremia is found in 70% to 80% of patients with adrenal insufficiency and is a consequence of sodium loss and volume depletion caused by mineralocorticoid deficiency and increased vasopressin secretion caused by cortisol deficiency. In addition, hyperkalemia and hyperchloremic acidosis is found in approximately 50% of patients with adrenal insufficiency. Hypernatremia and hypokalemia would be unusual manifestations of adrenal insufficiency.
In the absence of antidiuretic hormone, excessive water is excreted by the kidneys, and the urine osmolality is low. The patient's urine osmolality is 420 mOsm/kg H2O, making diabetes insipidus unlikely. In addition, there is no reason to suspect diabetes insipidus in this woman. Nevertheless, it would not be possible to rule out partial nephrogenic diabetes insipidus until her urea normalized.
Glycosuria is not the cause of this patient's hypernatremia because her glucose level is below the tubular threshold for reabsorption, approximately 180 mg/dL (10 mmol/L). A urine dipstick would verify the lack of glycosuria.

**Bibliography**

Lindner G, Schwarz C, Funk GC. Osmotic diuresis due to urea as the cause of hypernatraemia in critically ill patients. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2012;27:962-7. PMID: 21810766

This content was last updated in August 2018.