
### Correct Answer: D) Schedule a kidney biopsy 

**Educational Objective:** Perform a kidney biopsy to evaluate a decline in kidney function.

#### **Key Point:** Indications for kidney biopsy include glomerular hematuria, severely increased albuminuria, acute or chronic kidney disease of unclear cause, and kidney transplant dysfunction or monitoring.

A kidney biopsy is appropriate for this patient with a decline in kidney function. Clinical and laboratory features are often insufficient for definitive diagnosis of kidney disease. Kidney biopsy may therefore be essential for diagnosis and management. Indications include glomerular hematuria, severely increased albuminuria, acute or chronic kidney disease of unclear cause, and kidney transplant dysfunction or monitoring. In this case, the patient has an elevated serum creatinine without clear cause. Although further serologic testing may be done to guide diagnosis, a kidney biopsy will provide definitive diagnosis.
Due to preferential dilation of the efferent arteriole, the ACE inhibitor lisinopril may reduce glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and hence increase serum creatinine; however, this change in serum creatinine will occur within days of drug initiation and then stabilize. In this case, the serum creatinine increased without a change in dose, suggesting an unrelated cause.
A 24-hour creatinine clearance may be helpful in estimating kidney function but will not change the evaluation at this time. Most studies show that the Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology (CKD-EPI) Collaboration equation or the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) study equation provides a more accurate estimated GFR (eGFR) compared with creatinine clearance.
Although this patient's CKD-EPI eGFR is reported as >60 mL/min/1.73 m2, his increasing serum creatinine is consistent with a significantly declining eGFR. Although cystatin C will potentially add to the accuracy of the CKD-EPI formula, it will not change the evaluation, as GFR is declining as documented by the serum creatinine elevation (and no baseline cystatin C is available to show otherwise).

**Bibliography**

Hogan JJ, Mocanu M, Berns JS. The native kidney biopsy: update and evidence for best practice. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2016;11:354-62. PMID: 26339068

This content was last updated in August 2018.