
### Correct Answer: B) Discussion of non-dialytic options 

**Educational Objective:** Manage end-stage kidney disease in an elderly patient with multiple comorbidities and poor prognosis.

#### **Key Point:** Non-dialytic therapy is a reasonable treatment option for elderly patients with end-stage kidney disease and multiple comorbidities; treatment focuses on symptom management.

Discussion of conservative management and non-dialytic options is appropriate for this 82-year-old patient with end-stage kidney disease (ESKD) who has multiple comorbidities and poor prognosis. The life expectancy of some patients with ESKD with advanced age and severe comorbidities can be extremely short and may not be improved by dialysis. In elderly persons with progressing or advanced chronic kidney disease, decisions need to be made about the desires and plans to initiate renal replacement therapy and/or referral for evaluation for kidney transplantation. Several factors, including comorbid medical conditions, functional status, expected outcomes, and patient preferences regarding goals of care, should be considered. There is growing recognition that clinicians need to ensure maximal involvement of patients and their families in treatment decisions. This shared decision-making is a process whereby patients and providers can discuss the benefits and burdens of potential treatment strategies in the context of each patient's priorities and needs.
Patients with low comorbidity levels and a predicted survival of >3 years should be considered for all kidney disease treatment modalities, including kidney transplantation. In contrast, patients with a high 3- and 6-month expected mortality may choose to delay initiation and may be candidates for non-dialytic conservative management. Patients who choose conservative therapy have relatively preserved functional status until the last months of life. Conservative management may be a reasonable choice for patients whose primary goal is to maintain their independence and to avoid the time, pain, and discomfort related to dialysis, as well as for patients with poor functional status and a predicted post–dialysis initiation projected survival of <3 months.

**Bibliography**

Verberne WR, Geers AB, Jellema WT, Vincent HH, van Delden JJ, Bos WJ. Comparative survival among older adults with advanced kidney disease managed conservatively versus with dialysis. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2016;11:633-40. PMID: 26988748

This content was last updated in August 2018.