
### Correct Answer: B) High-intensity rosuvastatin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with an LDL cholesterol level higher than 190 mg/dL (4.92 mmol/L).

#### **Key Point:** The American Heart Association and American College of Cardiology recommend that patients aged 20 years or older with an LDL cholesterol level of 190 mg/dL (4.92 mmol/L) or higher should receive high-intensity statin therapy for primary prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.

The most appropriate treatment for primary prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) in this patient is high-intensity statin therapy with rosuvastatin or atorvastatin. According to the 2018 American Heart Association (AHA)/American College of Cardiology (ACC) Guideline on the Management of Blood Cholesterol, patients aged 20 years or older with severe LDL cholesterol elevation (≥190 mg/dL [4.92 mmol/L]) should receive the maximum tolerated statin therapy for primary prevention of ASCVD, regardless of 10-year risk for ASCVD. High-intensity statin therapy is recommended unless there are contraindications to its use. Sexually active women of childbearing age who are receiving statin therapy should be counseled to use a reliable form of contraception. Women who plan to become pregnant should stop taking statins 1 to 2 months before pregnancy is attempted. Those who become pregnant while on therapy should discontinue statins as soon as the pregnancy is discovered. It is reasonable to intensify statin therapy as tolerated to achieve an LDL cholesterol reduction of at least 50%. In contrast to the AHA/ACC recommendation, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends initiating low- to moderate-intensity statin therapy in adults aged 40 to 75 years without a history of ASCVD who have one or more traditional ASCVD risk factors (dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, or smoking) and a calculated 10-year ASCVD event risk of 10% or higher. Similarly, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs/U.S. Department of Defense cholesterol guideline recommends moderate-intensity statin therapy for patients with a 10-year ASCVD risk of 12% or more, an LDL cholesterol level of 190 mg/dL (4.92 mmol/L) or higher, or diabetes.
In the absence of familial hypercholesterolemia or severe hypercholesterolemia despite maximally tolerated cholesterol-lowering therapy with a statin and ezetimibe, proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitors, such as alirocumab and evolocumab, are not indicated in the primary prevention of ASCVD. Cost, treatment burden (injections), and absence of long-term safety data argue against their use in primary prevention. Such treatment might be considered if LDL cholesterol cannot be sufficiently reduced in the highest-risk patients.
In patients with an LDL cholesterol level of 190 mg/dL (4.92 mmol/L) or higher, initial treatment with a moderate-intensity statin is less preferred according to the AHA/ACC guidelines; however, if the patient is unable to tolerate high-intensity therapy, down-titration to moderate-intensity therapy could be considered, especially if adequate LDL cholesterol reduction can be achieved.
An evaluation for secondary causes of hyperlipidemia is also indicated in patients with an LDL cholesterol level of 190 mg/dL (4.92 mmol/L) or higher. The most common secondary causes are obesity, hypothyroidism, biliary obstruction, and nephrotic syndrome. Medications can also increase LDL cholesterol level, and some of the most commonly implicated drugs include cyclosporine, HIV medications (such as protease inhibitors), glucocorticoids, and amiodarone. If a secondary cause is not identified, LDL cholesterol level elevation is considered primary, and family members should undergo screening because severe hypercholesterolemia is often genetically determined, as may be the case with this patient who has a first-degree relative with premature ASCVD.

**Bibliography**

Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, Beam C, Birtcher KK, Blumenthal RS, et al. 2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guideline on the management of blood cholesterol. Circulation. 2018:CIR0000000000000625. PMID: 30586774 doi:10.1161/CIR.0000000000000625

This content was last updated in October 2021.