
### Correct Answer: B) Connect with the ground-based physician 

**Educational Objective:** Manage an in-flight medical emergency by connecting to the ground-based physician.

#### **Key Point:** In most in-flight medical emergencies, the physician's role involves assessing the patient, establishing a diagnosis when possible, administering basic medical treatments, providing reassurance as appropriate, and recommending flight diversion if necessary.

The most appropriate next step in management is to connect with the ground-based physician. In-flight medical emergencies are relatively common during air travel, occurring in an estimated 1 of 600 flights. Airlines based in the United States are mandated by the Federal Aviation Administration to carry at least one automated external defibrillator; supplemental oxygen; and a medical kit that contains a stethoscope, sphygmomanometer, gloves, airway supplies, intravenous access supplies, and some basic medications. In the case of an in-flight emergency, the physician's role generally involves assessing the patient, establishing a diagnosis when possible, administering basic medical treatments, providing reassurance as appropriate, and recommending flight diversion if necessary. Physicians should practice within their scope of training, be mindful of patient privacy, and document the patient encounter. Although not a Federal Aviation Administration requirement, most airlines have contracts with 24-hour call centers with a ground-based physician to aid in the event of an in-flight emergency. Often, ground-based physicians trained in emergency or aerospace medicine can assist the on-board physician remotely and help direct care, which can be particularly helpful when the medical problem is outside the scope of the physician's practice.
The principles of hypobaric hypoxia apply to commercial airplanes, in which cabins are pressurized to the equivalent of 1500 to 2500 meters (approximately 5000 to 8200 feet) in altitude, resulting in an inspired oxygen tension between 110 and 120 mm Hg (about 70% of the levels encountered at sea level). Although this correlates with an arterial PO2 of approximately 60 mm Hg (8.0 kPa) in healthy individuals, those with underlying pulmonary disease are at risk for significant hypoxemia during a flight. This patient will have no difficulty maintaining her oxyhemoglobin saturation above 90%, and asking the pilot to descend to a lower altitude will serve no useful purpose. A better strategy is to contact the ground-based physician.
Although this patient is dizzy and weak, her clinical status and vital signs appear stable. She needs further medical evaluation and management; however, flight diversion is probably not indicated at this time. Furthermore, the ground-based medical team can also help determine whether flight diversion is needed.

**Bibliography**

Nable JV, Tupe CL, Gehle BD, Brady WJ. In-flight medical emergencies during commercial travel. N Engl J Med. 2015;373:939-45. PMID: 26332548 doi: 10.1056/NEJMra1409213

This content was last updated in August 2018.