
### Correct Answer: C) Symptom control 

**Educational Objective:** Treat viral pharyngitis with symptom control.

#### **Key Point:** Hallmark signs of viral pharyngitis include conjunctivitis, cough, nasal congestion, and rhinorrhea; viral pharyngitis should be treated symptomatically.

The most appropriate management of this patient with pharyngitis is symptom control that might include an analgesic agent (such as an NSAID or acetaminophen), lozenges or topical sprays, and increased environmental humidity. Pharyngitis most commonly has viral causes; only 5% to 15% of pharyngitis cases are caused by bacteria, most often group A Streptococcus pyogenes (GAS). Clinicians must use clinical features to determine whether the patient meets the threshold for using a streptococcal rapid antigen detection test or throat culture. Several features are more predictive of a viral syndrome, and patients who present with a sore throat with accompanying features, such as conjunctivitis, cough, hoarseness, nasal congestion, and rhinorrhea, should not be tested for GAS pharyngitis. Additionally, the High Value Task Force of the American College of Physicians recommends that patients who meet fewer than three Centor criteria (fever by history, tonsillar exudates, tender anterior cervical lymphadenopathy, and absence of cough) need not be tested for GAS pharyngitis; these patients should be treated conservatively with symptom control.
Antibiotic treatment of pharyngitis is reserved for patients with a positive result on a rapid antigen detection test or throat culture; amoxicillin and penicillin are first-line therapy. In this case, the patient has features suggesting a viral cause, including cough and rhinorrhea. She also has only two Centor criteria: fever and tonsillar exudates. Therefore, she should not be treated with amoxicillin or other antibiotics or tested for GAS through rapid antigen detection testing or throat culture. She should be advised that her sore throat may last as long as 1 week.
Patients with severe pharyngitis should be assessed for more serious complications, including peritonsillar abscesses, epiglottitis, and Lemierre syndrome (thrombophlebitis of the internal jugular vein). Fusobacterium necrophorum has emerged as a cause of endemic pharyngitis in adolescents and young adults and is associated with Lemierre syndrome. Further study is needed to determine how to best distinguish F. necrophorum from other bacteria as the cause of pharyngitis.

**Bibliography**

Harris AM, Hicks LA, Qaseem A; High Value Care Task Force of the American College of Physicians and for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Appropriate antibiotic use for acute respiratory tract infection in adults: advice for high-value care from the American College of Physicians and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Ann Intern Med. 2016;164:425-34. PMID: 26785402

This content was last updated in August 2018.