
### Correct Answer: C) Mirabegron 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a man with urgency urinary incontinence.

#### **Key Point:** Male patients with urgency urinary incontinence who have not achieved satisfactory relief of symptoms with behavioral therapy may benefit from the use of anticholinergic agents or mirabegron.

This patient reports symptoms consistent with urgency urinary incontinence, which can be best addressed with behavioral training and the use of anticholinergic agents or mirabegron. Urgency incontinence is characterized by loss of urine accompanied by a sense of urgency. The treatment of urinary incontinence generally progresses in a stepwise manner. Lifestyle changes and behavioral therapy should be initiated first, followed by pharmacologic therapy and devices, and finally surgery if all other therapies have failed. The patient is already appropriately using behavioral therapy in the form of bladder training and scheduled voiding. The addition of pharmacologic therapy is now appropriate. Anticholinergic drugs (darifenacin, fesoterodine, oxybutynin, solifenacin, tolterodine, trospium) reduce involuntary bladder contractions by blocking the muscarinic cholinergic receptors. Anticholinergic medications are appropriate for both men and women with urgency urinary incontinence, but caution should be exercised when initiating them in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia due to risk for urinary retention. The β-agonist mirabegron, another pharmacologic option for treatment of urgency urinary incontinence, enhances the inhibitory adrenergic signals to the detrusor muscle. Clinicians should base the choice of pharmacologic agents on tolerability, adverse effect profile, ease of use, and cost of medication.
Dutasteride is a 5α-reductase inhibitor used to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia. In this patient who is already being treated with tamsulosin and in whom postvoid residual bladder volume suggests that bladder outlet obstruction has been adequately addressed, there is no additional benefit from adding another therapy for benign prostatic hyperplasia; this therapy will not address the urgency and incontinence problems.
Intermittent self-catheterization might be a useful strategy for a patient with overflow incontinence due to bladder outlet obstruction. However, that is not the case, as demonstrated by this patient's bladder ultrasound, which shows a postvoid residual urine volume of only 30 mL.
Sacral nerve root stimulation is an acceptable treatment for urgency urinary incontinence in patients in whom behavioral and pharmacologic therapies fail. Placement of a sacral nerve root stimulator typically involves conscious sedation and may require general anesthesia.

**Bibliography**

Gormley EA, Lightner DJ, Burgio KL, Chai TC, Clemens JQ, Culkin DJ, et al; American Urological Association. Diagnosis and treatment of overactive bladder (non-neurogenic) in adults: AUA/SUFU guideline. J Urol. 2012;188:2455-63. PMID: 23098785 doi:10.1016/j.juro.2012.09.079

This content was last updated in August 2018.