
### Correct Answer: A) Cervical cytology 

**Educational Objective:** Screen for cervical cancer in a woman vaccinated against human papillomavirus infection.

#### **Key Point:** Routine cervical cancer screening with cytology alone is indicated in women aged 21 to 29 years, including those vaccinated against human papillomavirus.

This patient should be screened for cervical cancer with cytology (Pap testing) alone. Nearly all cases of cervical cancer are precipitated by persistent human papillomavirus (HPV) infection, and HPV (most commonly subtypes 16 and 18 [high-risk HPV]) is detected in most patients with cervical cancer. Immunization against HPV is thought to protect against 70% to 90% of cervical cancers depending on the type of vaccine received. However, in patients who have received the HPV vaccine series, routine cervical cancer screening is still strongly recommended. Recipients of the vaccine series may have been infected with HPV prior to immunization. Furthermore, HPV vaccination is not effective in clearing HPV infection and does not protect against all HPV types. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) has concluded that the benefits of screening for cervical cancer in women aged 21 to 29 years every 3 years with cytology alone substantially outweigh the harms.
HPV testing is not indicated in women younger than 30 years because of the higher prevalence of transient HPV in this age group. Therefore, this patient should receive Pap testing alone and not dual testing with cytology and HPV detection, or high-risk HPV testing.
In the 2018 recommendation statement, the USPSTF concluded that in women aged 30 to 65 years, the benefits of screening every 3 years with cytology alone or every 5 years with high-risk HPV testing alone outweigh the harms. Decision analysis modeling suggests that screening every 5 years with high-risk HPV testing alone in women aged 30 to 65 years results in a slightly lower mortality rate than with screening every 3 years with cytology alone but much higher rates of follow-up testing and colposcopy. Four HPV screening tests are approved by the FDA for HPV screening. The tests screen for up to 14 HPV types, but only one test specifically identifies the presence of high-risk HPV types (16 and 18); the other tests report a positive result if any HPV type is present. According to the American Society for Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology and the Society of Gynecologic Oncology, high-risk HPV testing alone can be considered as a primary cervical cancer screening modality in women aged 25 years and older; however, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has affirmed that cytology alone or cytology plus HPV testing are still specifically recommended in current guidelines from most major societies.

**Bibliography**

Koliopoulos G, Nyaga VN, Santesso N, Bryant A, Martin-Hirsch PP, Mustafa RA, et al. Cytology versus HPV testing for cervical cancer screening in the general population. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2017;8:CD008587. PMID: 28796882 doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD008587.pub2

This content was last updated in March 2021.