
### Correct Answer: B) Ibuprofen and scrotal support 

**Educational Objective:** Treat symptomatic left-sided varicocele.

#### **Key Point:** In adult patients, first-line therapy for symptomatic left-sided varicocele that is not associated with testicular atrophy or infertility is analgesic agents and scrotal support.

This patient's history and physical examination findings support a clinical diagnosis of symptomatic varicocele, and the appropriate treatment is analgesic therapy (ibuprofen) and scrotal support. Varicoceles are common, occurring in 15% of men. Notably, they are believed to be a leading cause of infertility; 40% of men who are infertile have varicoceles. They are the result of dilation of the pampiniform plexus of spermatic veins and can have a presentation ranging from no symptoms to dull aching scrotal fullness. Examination reveals a left-sided (90%) soft scrotal mass with a “bag of worms” consistency that increases with standing and decreases while supine. Ultrasonography is used for confirmation. Management is usually conservative, including analgesic agents; scrotal support should be pursued in all patients and is considered first-line therapy. Unilateral right-sided varicoceles are uncommon and may be associated with a significant underlying abnormality, such as inferior vena cava obstruction due to tumor or thrombosis because the right gonadal vein directly empties into the inferior vena cava. Many experts recommend advanced imaging with CT for patients with right-sided varicoceles.
Treatment with ceftriaxone plus doxycycline is recommended for infectious epididymitis. The chronic nature of this patient's symptoms, lack of fever, and a scrotal mass that increases with standing do not support a diagnosis of infectious epididymitis.
Surgical consultation for possible ligation or embolization of the gonadal vein would be appropriate in certain patients with symptomatic varicocele. Ligation or embolization of the gonadal vein prevents retrograde flow of blood to the pampiniform in the scrotum. Surgery may be considered in cases of testicular atrophy or infertility, or in cases refractory to first-line therapies. However, surgical repair may increase sperm counts without improving fertility. In this case, the patient has no evidence of testicular atrophy, and he has not previously received treatment. Although a semen analysis would be reasonable to obtain, conservative therapies should still be offered at this time.
Topical lidocaine can provide local analgesia; however, its use in cases of varicocele has not been thoroughly investigated. Rather, a systemic analgesic agent with anti-inflammatory properties would be preferable.

**Bibliography**

Baigorri BF, Dixon RG. Varicocele: a review. Semin Intervent Radiol. 2016;33:170-6. PMID: 27582603 doi:10.1055/s-0036-1586147

This content was last updated in August 2018.