
### Correct Answer: C) Splinting of the wrist 

**Educational Objective:** Treat carpal tunnel syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Initial therapy for carpal tunnel syndrome consists of avoiding repetitive hand and wrist motions and neutral-position wrist splinting.

The most appropriate management is splinting of the wrist. This patient has symptoms strongly suggestive of carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). CTS is caused by median nerve compression at the wrist; it presents with wrist pain that may radiate to the fingers or forearm and is often worse at night and with repetitive motion. Risk factors include female sex, pregnancy, connective tissue disorders, diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, and obesity. Examination findings are often minimal early in the disease but may include hypalgesia of the median nerve distribution (thumb and first three fingers) and weakened thumb abduction. Thenar muscle atrophy suggests severe disease. For patients with mild to moderate symptoms, initial therapy consists of avoiding repetitive hand and wrist motions; for persistent or more severe symptoms, neutral-position wrist splinting can be helpful. Splinting appears to be more effective when used full time rather than only at night.
CTS can be diagnosed on the basis of history and clinical examination findings. Electromyography is not necessary unless a patient's clinical presentation is atypical, other conditions (such as polyneuropathy, plexopathy, and radiculopathy) need to be excluded, or surgical intervention is being considered.
Local glucocorticoid injection can improve symptoms over the short term (up to 10 weeks). Although generally safe, injection therapy has known harms, including worsening of median nerve compression, accidental injection into nerves or vessels, and flexor tendon rupture. For these reasons, many experts recommend glucocorticoid injection as second-line therapy for CTS.
Surgical decompression of the median nerve is reserved for patients with symptoms that do not respond to conservative therapy or with evidence of severe neuropathy (such as weakened thumb abduction, thenar muscle atrophy, and an abnormal nerve conduction study). Electrodiagnostic studies are typically performed before surgery to confirm the presence of moderate to severe median nerve injury and to provide prognostic information.

**Bibliography**

Hobson-Webb LD, Juel VC. Common entrapment neuropathies. Continuum (Minneap Minn). 2017;23:487-511. PMID: 28375915 doi:10.1212/CON.0000000000000452

This content was last updated in August 2018.