
### Correct Answer: C) Serum creatinine and electrolyte levels 

**Educational Objective:** Select appropriate preoperative testing in a patient with chronic kidney disease.

#### **Key Point:** Preoperative measurement of serum electrolyte and creatinine levels is recommended in patients with kidney disease and those who are taking medications that may affect kidney function or predispose them to electrolyte abnormalities.

This patient should undergo preoperative assessment of serum creatinine and electrolyte levels. Preoperative testing should be ordered selectively according to the patient's symptoms, medical history, medications, and physical examination findings. Serum creatinine and electrolyte levels should be measured preoperatively in patients with kidney disease and those who are taking medications that may affect kidney function or predispose them to electrolyte abnormalities, such as this patient, who has chronic kidney disease and is taking an ACE inhibitor (lisinopril) and diuretic (hydrochlorothiazide). In patients with chronic kidney disease undergoing surgery, electrolyte abnormalities should be corrected, and volume status should be optimized.
Serum aminotransferases (alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase) should not be routinely ordered in the absence of known liver disease, symptoms suggestive of underlying liver disease, physical examination findings suspicious for liver disease, or history of abnormal liver chemistry results.
Coagulation testing is reserved for patients with a history of abnormal bleeding, those taking anticoagulants, and patients with medical conditions that predispose to coagulopathy (such as liver disease or hemophilia). For the patient with a history suggesting a bleeding disorder, preoperative prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, and platelet count measurements are indicated.
Routine preoperative laboratory panels are not recommended because they expose patients to unnecessary testing, risk for incidental findings that are lost to follow-up evaluation, and increased anxiety. However, given this patient's comorbidities and medication use, forgoing preoperative testing would be inappropriate.

**Bibliography**

Apfelbaum JL, Connis RT, Nickinovich DG, Pasternak LR, Arens JF, Caplan RA, et al; Committee on Standards and Practice Parameters. Practice advisory for preanesthesia evaluation: an updated report by the American Society of Anesthesiologists Task Force on Preanesthesia Evaluation. Anesthesiology. 2012;116:522-38. PMID: 22273990 doi:10.1097/ALN.0b013e31823c1067

This content was last updated in August 2018.