
### Correct Answer: B) Ibuprofen 

**Educational Objective:** Avoid NSAID therapy in a patient who has undergone bariatric surgery.

#### **Key Point:** The use of NSAIDs in patients who have undergone bariatric surgery is associated with increased risk for internal bleeding; therefore, ibuprofen and other NSAIDs should be avoided after bariatric surgery because their use is associated with increased risk for internal bleeding.

Ibuprofen should be discontinued in this patient. This patient likely has patellofemoral pain syndrome, which is characterized by anterior knee pain that is usually gradual in onset and worsens with running, prolonged sitting, and climbing stairs. Applying direct pressure to the patella with the knee extended may reproduce the pain. Treatment generally includes activity modification and physical therapy. NSAIDs, acetaminophen, bracing, and patellar taping all have limited efficacy. Additionally, the use of NSAIDs in patients who have undergone bariatric surgery is associated with increased risk for internal bleeding; bleeding risk is increased at the sites of anastomoses and staple or suture lines in the early postoperative period, with increased risk of marginal or gastric ulceration in the later postoperative period. Therefore, ibuprofen and other NSAIDs should be avoided after bariatric surgery.
This patient with known risk factors for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease meets the criteria for moderate- to high-intensity statin therapy and should continue atorvastatin. There is no association between statin therapy and adverse events after bariatric surgery.
Patients who have undergone bariatric surgery may experience a decline in blood pressure such that antihypertensive agents need to be reduced or discontinued. Close monitoring of blood pressure in the postoperative period is recommended. This patient's blood pressure is appropriate on the current dose of lisinopril and this drug does not need to be discontinued.
Similarly, patients who have undergone bariatric surgery may experience reduced need for medications for type 2 diabetes mellitus. Close monitoring for the development of hypoglycemia in the postoperative period is recommended. Hypoglycemia is unlikely with metformin therapy alone and does not need to be discontinued.

**Bibliography**

Marcotte E, Chand B. Management and prevention of surgical and nutritional complications after bariatric surgery. Surg Clin North Am. 2016;96:843-56. PMID: 27473805 doi:10.1016/j.suc.2016.03.006

This content was last updated in August 2018.