
### Correct Answer: B) Borderline personality disorder 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose borderline personality disorder.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with borderline personality disorder have chaotic interpersonal relationships, emotional lability, impulsive and self-destructive behaviors, and exaggerated responses to social stressors; comorbidity with other psychiatric illnesses is high.

This patient demonstrates a behavioral pattern consistent with borderline personality disorder. A personality disorder is characterized by persistent patterns of inner experiences and behaviors that digress substantially from the expectations of the affected person's culture. These disorders are entrenched, rigid, and stable over time and lead to substantial impairment and distress. Onset is usually during adolescence or early adulthood. Persons with personality disorders usually do not recognize their interactions with others as abnormal. In borderline personality disorder, patients have chaotic interpersonal relationships, emotional lability, and impulsive and self-destructive behaviors (such as suicide attempts). Patients have exaggerated responses to social stressors and often perceive people as “all good” or “all bad.” Comorbid psychiatric illness is common in patients with borderline personality disorder. The initial management focuses on establishing rapport and boundaries with the patient, which can improve the patient's acceptance of psychiatry referral. Psychotherapy can be effective at improving coping mechanisms. No pharmacologic therapies are approved for treating personality disorders directly, but medications can be prescribed for specific symptoms (such as mood stabilizers for impulsivity).
Bipolar disorder is characterized by manic episodes (in which patients have decreased need for sleep, greater distractibility, and increased energy) and major depressive episodes. Although patients with bipolar disorder may engage in self-destructive behavior, it is not related to interpersonal discord.
Patients with generalized anxiety disorder have excessive anxiety and worry about multiple aspects of their lives. This leads to insomnia, irritability, and fatigue. Patients with generalized anxiety disorder do not typically have impulsivity, relationship instability, or the tendency to idealize and devalue individuals as do patients with borderline personality disorder.
Histrionic personality disorder is characterized by excessive need for approval and attention-seeking behaviors. Patients with this disorder are emotionally vulnerable, and their behaviors focus on obtaining approval from others. Patients with histrionic personality disorders are uncomfortable if not the center of attention and typically use physical appearance to draw attention to self. Interaction with others may be inappropriately sexually seductive or provocative. Histrionic personality disorder is not accompanied by the same degree of emotional lability and risk for suicidality as borderline personality disorder, as exhibited in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Gunderson JG. Clinical practice. Borderline personality disorder. N Engl J Med. 2011;364:2037-42. PMID: 21612472 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp1007358

This content was last updated in August 2018.