
### Correct Answer: A) Advise the patient to retire from driving 

**Educational Objective:** Counsel an older patient with risk factors for a motor vehicle accident.

#### **Key Point:** The more risk factors for a motor vehicle accident that an older driver has, the higher the risk for an adverse event while driving.

This patient should be advised to retire from driving. Driving assessments are qualitative and rely heavily on clinical judgment. The more risk factors for a motor vehicle accident that an older driver has, the higher the risk for an adverse event while driving. Drivers at highest risk should be counseled to retire from driving. This patient has multiple risk factors for unsafe driving, including cognitive impairment, self-restrictions in driving (does not drive after dark or on the interstate highway, drives within a 10-mile radius of home), minor accidents, and concerns from family members about driving safety. His other risk factors include impaired mobility, hearing decline, and medical conditions with increased risk for loss of consciousness. Physician advice to retire from driving is associated with older drivers appropriately discontinuing driving. Given the risk for depression and social isolation associated with driving retirement, however, this advice should be coupled with suggestions for alternate forms of transportation and follow-up assessment of his mood and quality of life.
Detailed neuropsychological testing is especially useful for the following patients: (1) those with milder cognitive symptoms to determine whether cognitive difficulties are within the realm of normal age-associated cognitive decline versus mild cognitive impairment; (2) those with definite dementia, diagnosed on the basis of clinical impression and results of screening cognitive tests, who have clinical features overlapping two or more underlying pathologic processes; and (3) those with cognitive symptoms whose clinical picture is confounded by significant depression. The results of neuropsychological testing are unlikely to change the recommendation to retire from driving considering this patient's multiple risk factors.
If a patient is resistant to advice to retire from driving, a formal occupational therapy driving evaluation may be helpful.
Given his numerous observable risk factors, this patient should not be reassured that he is competent to drive.

**Bibliography**

Martin AJ, Marottoli R, O’Neill D. Driving assessment for maintaining mobility and safety in drivers with dementia. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013:CD006222. PMID: 23990315 doi:10.1002/14651858.CD006222.pub4

This content was last updated in August 2018.