
### Correct Answer: A) Cognitive behavioral therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat systemic exertion intolerance disease with cognitive behavioral therapy.

#### **Key Point:** The treatment of systemic exertion intolerance disease involves a structured, multimodal, nonpharmacologic approach that includes regularly scheduled office visits, cognitive behavioral therapy, and sleep hygiene education.

The most appropriate treatment for this patient with systemic exertion intolerance disease (SEID) is cognitive behavioral therapy. According to the Institute of Medicine (now the National Academy of Medicine), SEID is diagnosed by the presence of fatigue of at least 6 months' duration with substantial reduction in preillness activities, postexertional malaise, unrefreshing sleep, and either cognitive impairment or orthostatic intolerance (symptoms such as lightheadedness, dizziness, fatigue, cognitive deficits, and visual difficulties that worsen with upright posture and improve with recumbency). Patients with SEID benefit most from a structured, well-defined, multimodal approach that includes regularly scheduled office visits, which allow for discussion, educational opportunities, and longitudinal reassessment. Although vigorous aerobic exercise may be beneficial for many chronic illnesses, patients with SEID do not tolerate such exercise routines. Standard exercise recommendations for healthy people may be harmful for patients with SEID. However, it is important that patients with SEID undertake activities that they can tolerate. Additionally, all patients should receive instruction on effective sleep hygiene. Other modalities that may be of benefit include physical therapy, occupational therapy, biofeedback therapy, massage therapy, acupuncture, yoga, tai chi, and stress management activities. There is some evidence, although inconsistent, that cognitive behavioral therapy may improve function in patients with SEID. Considering this patient's depression (which is likely a consequence of her chronic symptoms), cognitive behavioral therapy is an ideal treatment.
Although methylphenidate, prednisone, opioids, anti-inflammatory agents, and antimicrobial agents are commonly requested in clinical practice for the treatment of chronic fatigue symptoms, there is no consistent evidence that these agents improve symptoms or prognosis in patients with SEID. Given the lack of benefit, risk for abuse, addictive potential, and array of adverse effects, these options are not recommended.
Mirtazapine (an α2-antagonist) and sertraline (a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor) are used to treat depression. In general, selective antidepressant therapy may be useful in treating associated depression; however, it is not a direct treatment for SEID. Mirtazapine and sertraline might improve this patient's symptoms of depression, but it will not address the other symptoms associated with SEID.

**Bibliography**

Janse A, Nikolaus S, Wiborg JF, Heins M, van der Meer JWM, Bleijenberg G, Tummers M, Twisk J, Knoop H. Long-term follow-up after cognitive behaviour therapy for chronic fatigue syndrome. J Psychosom Res. 2017;97:45-51. PMID: 28606498 doi:10.1016/j.jpsychores.2017.03.016

This content was last updated in October 2021.