
### Correct Answer: D) Pregnancy test 

**Educational Objective:** Manage hormonal contraception prescribing by first excluding pregnancy.

#### **Key Point:** Before initiating hormonal contraception, a negative pregnancy test result must be documented if 7 days have passed since the onset of the last menstrual period.

Pregnancy testing is the next step in this patient's management. Strategies to reduce unintended pregnancy require assessing pregnancy risk, counseling patients regarding contraceptive options, and ensuring correct and consistent use of contraceptives. Most women can start most contraceptive methods at any time. Available contraceptive methods include hormonal contraception; long-acting reversible preparations, including intrauterine devices; barrier contraceptives; and sterilization. Other than a thorough history and blood pressure and BMI measurements, few examinations or tests, if any, are needed before starting a contraceptive method. A pregnancy test should be obtained if more than 7 days have elapsed since the start of the last menses.
Hormonal contraceptive options include oral contraceptive pills (combination estrogen-progesterone or progesterone-only pills), long-acting reversible contraceptives, transdermal patches, and vaginal rings. Contraindications to combination products include breast cancer, liver disease, migraine with aura, uncontrolled hypertension, and venous thromboembolism. Estrogen-containing preparations are contraindicated in women older than 35 years who smoke more than 15 cigarettes a day. A family history of breast cancer is not a contraindication for hormonal contraception.
In healthy women of reproductive age, a breast examination, pelvic examination, or mammography are not needed before beginning hormonal contraception. Breast cancer and cervical cancer screenings should be performed according to established guidelines. In 2016, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) reaffirmed its recommendation for biennial screening mammography in all women aged 50 to 74 years. The USPSTF recommends individualized screening decisions for women aged 40 to 49 years based on patient context and values regarding specific benefits and harms. The patient has no indications for mammography at this time.
According to the USPSTF, cervical cancer screening in women aged 21 to 65 years may be accomplished with cytology (Pap test) every 3 years. The 2020 American Cancer Society guidelines also list cytology testing every 3 years as an acceptable screening strategy for women aged 25 to 65 years, but suggest transitioning to a strategy incorporating human papillomavirus testing. This patient's last Pap smear was normal 2 years ago, and she does not need to undergo repeat Pap testing for another 12 months.

**Bibliography**

Curtis KM, Jatlaoui TC, Tepper NK, Zapata LB, Horton LG, Jamieson DJ, Whiteman MK. U.S. Selected practice recommendations for contraceptive use, 2016. MMWR Recomm Rep. 2016;65:1-66. PMID: 27467319 doi: 10.15585/mmwr.rr6504a1

This content was last updated in March 2021.