
### Correct Answer: C) Nonpharmacologic modalities 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with acute low back pain with nonpharmacologic modalities.

#### **Key Point:** First-line treatment of acute low back pain is nonpharmacologic therapy, including acupuncture, massage, spinal manipulation, and superficial heat; most patients will improve over time, regardless of the treatment chosen.

The most appropriate initial treatment of this patient's low back pain is nonpharmacologic therapy. According to a 2017 clinical practice guideline issued by the American College of Physicians, clinicians should choose nonpharmacologic treatments as first-line therapy for acute low back pain. Options include superficial heat, acupuncture, massage, and spinal manipulation. The quality of evidence supporting individual nonpharmacologic measures is moderate or low. Recommendations for their use are based on the fact that most patients with acute low back pain will improve over time (most within 4 weeks), regardless of the treatment chosen. Harms of nonpharmacologic interventions were seldom and minor. Superficial heat was associated with increased risk for skin flushing, and massage and spinal manipulation were associated with muscle soreness.
Recent evidence, including a Cochrane review, has demonstrated that acetaminophen is not effective in treating acute low back pain. As such, it would be inappropriate to recommend its use in this patient.
The FDA has approved the use of duloxetine in chronic back pain (pain lasting >12 weeks), as studies have demonstrated its effectiveness. However, no evidence supports its use for acute low back pain.
Guidelines recommend that opioids should be the last treatment option considered for chronic back pain and should be considered only in patients in whom other therapies have failed, as these drugs are associated with substantial harms. Harms of short-term opioid therapy include increased constipation, dizziness, dry mouth, nausea, somnolence, and vomiting. Studies assessing opioids for the treatment of chronic low back pain did not address the risk for addiction, abuse, or overdose, although observational studies have shown a dose-dependent relationship between opioid use for chronic pain and serious harms. A 2018 randomized trial demonstrated that treatment with opioids was not superior to treatment with nonopioid medications for improving pain-related function for chronic back pain. In addition, pain intensity was significantly improved in the nonopioid group. There are no studies of opioids for the treatment of acute back pain, but given their questionable effect and substantial harms as well as the self-limited nature of acute nonspecific back pain, opioids should likely be avoided entirely.

**Bibliography**

Qaseem A, Wilt TJ, McLean RM, Forciea MA; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the American College of Physicians. Noninvasive treatments for acute, subacute, and chronic low back pain: a clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians. Ann Intern Med. 2017;166:514-530. PMID: 28192789

This content was last updated in August 2018.