
### Correct Answer: C) Moderate- or high-intensity atorvastatin 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease in a patient with type 2 diabetes mellitus with statin therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with diabetes mellitus are at significantly increased lifetime risk for cardiovascular events and should receive statin therapy for primary prevention.

The most appropriate treatment for primary prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) in this patient is moderate- or high-intensity atorvastatin. Intensity of statin therapy is defined by the expected decrease in LDL cholesterol levels; high-intensity statin therapy should decrease LDL cholesterol levels by at least 50% from baseline levels, whereas moderate-intensity statin therapy should decrease LDL cholesterol levels by 30% to 49%. High-intensity statin regimens recommended by the 2018 American Heart Association (AHA)/American College of Cardiology (ACC) Guideline on the Management of Blood Cholesterol include atorvastatin, 40 mg/d to 80 mg/d, and rosuvastatin, 20 mg/d to 40 mg/d. According to the AHA/ACC guideline, patients aged 40 to 75 years with diabetes mellitus should be started on moderate-intensity statin therapy. If additional risk factors beyond diabetes are present, the guideline supports further risk assessment to determine if high-intensity statin therapy is warranted. This patient's 10-year risk for ASCVD is 22.4%, indicating high risk for fatal/nonfatal myocardial infarction or stroke. In this situation, the AHA/ACC guideline recommends therapy with a high-intensity statin. In contrast to the AHA/ACC recommendations, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends initiating low- to moderate-intensity statin therapy in adults aged 40 to 75 years without a history of ASCVD who have one or more ASCVD risk factors (dyslipidemia, diabetes, hypertension, or smoking) and a calculated 10-year ASCVD event risk of 10% or higher. The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs/U.S. Department of Defense cholesterol guideline recommends moderate-intensity statin therapy for patients with a 10-year ASCVD risk of 12% or more, an LDL cholesterol level of 190 mg/dL (4.92 mmol/L) or higher, or diabetes.
Nonstatin drugs are not considered first-line therapy for the prevention of ASCVD in patients with or without diabetes. Fibrates, such as fenofibrate, would be first-line pharmacologic therapy for hypertriglyceridemia (typically, when the triglyceride level is >500 mg/dL [5.65 mmol/L]) for prevention of triglyceride-induced acute pancreatitis.
A 2017 systematic review concluded that among randomized controlled trials and observational studies, evidence of variable strength showed no association between increased fish oil intake and lower cardiovascular disease event risk. Expert opinion recommends that the use of fish oil supplementation be restricted to patients with refractory hypertriglyceridemia.
All patients should receive education on therapeutic lifestyle changes, including regular exercise, weight loss, and dietary changes. However, lifestyle modifications alone are not considered adequate for cardiovascular risk reduction in many patient groups, including patients with diabetes.

**Bibliography**

Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, Beam C, Birtcher KK, Blumenthal RS, et al. 2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guideline on the management of blood cholesterol. Circulation. 2018:CIR0000000000000625. PMID: 30586774 doi:10.1161/CIR.0000000000000625

This content was last updated in March 2021.