
### Correct Answer: A) Cognitive behavioral therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat insomnia with cognitive behavioral therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, which combines components of sleep hygiene with cognitive therapy and behavioral interventions, is first-line therapy for insomnia.

The most appropriate next step in management would be to pursue targeted cognitive behavioral therapy for this patient. The American College of Physicians recommends cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) as first-line therapy for insomnia. CBT-I combines components of sleep hygiene with cognitive therapeutic interventions (to understand and identify appropriate sleep expectations) and behavioral interventions (such as relaxation techniques). Elements of sleep hygiene include avoiding strenuous exercise, large meals, caffeine, alcohol, and nicotine close to bedtime; establishing a relaxing prebedtime routine; keeping the room dark and quiet; avoiding reading, television, and use of electronic devices while in bed; and keeping a stable bedtime and arising time. Sleep hygiene education is not recommended as a standalone therapy for chronic insomnia and should be offered as a component of CBT-I. CBT-I may be delivered in various formats, such as individual or group therapy, web-based modules, or written materials. It provides significant value over pharmacologic-driven approaches and carries little risk for adverse effects. Brief behavioral therapy for insomnia (BBT-I) is an abbreviated version of CBT-I, focusing on only the behavioral components of sleep restriction, stimulus control, and sleep hygiene. BBT-I is more convenient than CBT-I for many patients.
Although diphenhydramine and melatonin are popular over-the-counter remedies for insomnia, there is insufficient evidence to recommend their use before a trial of CBT-I. Additionally, sedating antihistamines (such as diphenhydramine) are associated with anticholinergic side effects and carry-over daytime sleepiness.
Some antidepressants, such as mirtazapine, are sedating and may improve sleep. Doxepin, in low doses, is the only antidepressant approved for the treatment of insomnia. Very low-dose doxepin may be effective as long-term therapy, but chronic pharmacologic treatment for insomnia should be avoided. Most expert opinion recommends against using antidepressants for treating insomnia in patients without depression; however, doxepin, trazodone, and mirtazapine can be useful if a sedating antidepressant is indicated.
Benzodiazepines (flurazepam, triazolam, temazepam) are effective for short-term insomnia treatment. However, their use is limited by tolerance; side effects of daytime somnolence, falls, cognitive impairment, and anterograde amnesia; and the potential for dependence. Rebound insomnia may occur upon discontinuation, especially if discontinuation is abrupt. The selective nature and shorter half-life of nonbenzodiazepines (zolpidem, zaleplon, eszopiclone) lead to fewer side effects (including rebound insomnia), making these drugs better initial choices if pharmacotherapy is warranted. However, sedation, disorientation, and agitation may still occur; rare side effects include sleep driving, sleep walking, and sleep eating. In this patient, CBT-I should be tried before pharmacologic therapy with zolpidem is considered.

**Bibliography**

Qaseem A, Kansagara D, Forciea MA, Cooke M, Denberg TD; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the American College of Physicians. Management of chronic insomnia disorder in adults: a clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians. Ann Intern Med. 2016;165:125-33. PMID: 27136449 doi: 10.7326/M15-2175

This content was last updated in October 2020.