
### Correct Answer: C) Send the patient a letter warning that the relationship may be terminated 

**Educational Objective:** Effectively manage termination of a physician-patient relationship.

#### **Key Point:** If the physician-patient relationship becomes irreparably compromised because of lack of trust, lack of mutual goals, or failure to maintain an effective working relationship despite efforts to resolve differences, the relationship can be terminated.

The most appropriate management is to send the patient a formal, written warning informing him that the patient-physician relationship may be terminated unless he is able to meaningfully participate in the plan of care. Physician-patient relationships are formed on the basis of mutual agreement. Rarely, the relationship fails to reach mutual goals and becomes unproductive. In some cases, the patient may not adhere to recommended therapies or may demonstrate inappropriate behavior with the physician or staff members, and it may be appropriate for the physician to terminate the relationship. After reasonable attempts to resolve differences have failed, the patient should be notified in writing that the relationship has been terminated and that care should be obtained from a different provider, usually with a several-week time frame for the patient to continue receiving urgent care. Terminations should occur only if the patient is medically stable and when alternative care is available. If a patient threatens a physician or staff member, the termination may be immediate.
Although a psychiatrist might provide interventions to help this patient better adhere to care recommendations, such a referral is unnecessary in making a decision to terminate an ineffective physician-patient relationship.
This patient has not demonstrated signs of an unstable mental health condition that warrants intervention by a crisis team.
Patient abandonment is unethical and may be a cause for legal action. In this case, the patient has not yet received a formal warning that his failure to adhere to treatment goals may result in his termination from the practice. Therefore, he should not be released from the practice immediately.

**Bibliography**

Snyder L; American College of Physicians Ethics, Professionalism, and Human Rights Committee. American College of Physicians ethics manual: sixth edition. Ann Intern Med. 2012;156:73-104. PMID: 22213573 doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-156-1-201201031-00001

This content was last updated in August 2018.