
### Correct Answer: A) Hydrocolloid dressing 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a pressure injury with a hydrocolloid dressing.

#### **Key Point:** Hydrocolloid or foam dressings are superior to standard gauze dressings in the treatment of pressure injuries; protein supplements and the use of electrical stimulation to accelerate wound healing are also recommended treatment strategies.

This patient's pressure injury would be best managed with hydrocolloid or foam dressings, which have been found to be superior to standard gauze dressings in reducing ulcer size in low-quality studies. Pressure injuries (also known as pressure ulcers) are characterized by localized injury to the skin or soft tissue as a result of pressure and shear forces. They may be classified by use of a staging system, with each stage distinguished by the amount of tissue loss. In 2015, the American College of Physicians (ACP) published a clinical practice guideline for the treatment of pressure ulcers. The ACP recommends that clinicians use hydrocolloid or foam dressings in patients with pressure ulcers to reduce wound size. Hydrocolloid dressings consist of a mixture of adhesive absorbent polymers and a gelling agent, with a film covering to make them water and gas permeable. The dressing interacts with the wound fluid to form a gel. Hydrocolloids may promote wound healing by enhancing fibrinolytic activity and growth of granulation tissue and inhibiting bacterial overgrowth through their physical barrier properties. Hydrocolloids are convenient to use because they require infrequent dressing changes and are easy to apply. Foam dressings are sheets of foam polymers and are used primarily for heavily exudative wounds. Other treatment options include managing the conditions that caused the pressure injury, wound protection, surgical debridement and repair, and vacuum-assisted closure. There is moderate-quality evidence that air-fluidized beds reduce the size of pressure injuries compared with other support surfaces. The ACP also recommends protein or amino acid supplements (low-quality evidence) and electrical stimulation (moderate-quality evidence) as adjunctive therapy to accelerate wound healing.
There is insufficient evidence to recommend for or against platelet-derived growth factor dressings in the treatment of pressure injuries, and no studies have explored the benefits of vitamin- or mineral-infused dressings (such as a zinc-infused dressing). In addition, insufficient evidence was found to recommend for or against hydrotherapy, hyperbaric oxygen therapy, or maggot therapy.

**Bibliography**

Qaseem A, Humphrey LL, Forciea MA, Starkey M, Denberg TD; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the American College of Physicians. Treatment of pressure ulcers: a clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians. Ann Intern Med. 2015;162:370-9. PMID: 25732279

This content was last updated in August 2018.