
### Correct Answer: C) Cognitive behavioral therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat obsessive-compulsive disorder with cognitive behavioral therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Obsessive-compulsive disorder should be treated with cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT); a combination of CBT and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor therapy is useful for patients with severe symptoms or inadequate response to CBT.

The preferred initial treatment for this patient with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). OCD is an anxiety disorder in which patients experience obsessions (recurrent, intrusive thoughts, images, or impulses causing distress) and compulsions (repetitive behaviors done to alleviate obsession-related anxiety). Loss of time and disrupted social interactions from these thoughts and behaviors cause significant functional impairment. CBT is first-line treatment because it is more effective than pharmacotherapy alone. However, a combination of CBT and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) therapy is useful for patients with severe symptoms or inadequate response to CBT. Although evidence is strongest for adjunctive therapy with SSRIs, more recent data support the adjunctive use of neuroleptics, deep-brain stimulation, and neurosurgical ablation for treatment-resistant OCD.
Buspirone is beneficial in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder without comorbid anxiety or mood disorders but has no demonstrated benefit in patients with OCD.
Benzodiazepines, such as clonazepam, are used for short-term treatment of debilitating symptoms from severe generalized anxiety disorder and panic disorder, but they are not effective in the treatment of OCD.
Risperidone is an antipsychotic medication that can be used in the treatment of schizophrenia or other psychiatric conditions with psychotic features. Patients with OCD have obsessions and compulsions but do not have hallucinations, delusions, or disorganized thoughts that would warrant antipsychotic therapy.

**Bibliography**

Hirschtritt ME, Bloch MH, Mathews CA. Obsessive-compulsive disorder: advances in diagnosis and treatment. JAMA. 2017;317:1358-1367. PMID: 28384832 doi:10.1001/jama.2017.2200

This content was last updated in August 2018.