
### Correct Answer: D) No further testing is recommended 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with symptoms of systemic exertion intolerance disease.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with fatigue without a clear cause, it is reasonable to obtain a complete blood count, electrolyte panel, thyroid-stimulating hormone level, fasting glucose level, and kidney and liver chemistry tests; unnecessary laboratory, imaging, and invasive studies should be avoided.

No further diagnostic testing is required in this patient. She meets the diagnostic criteria for systemic exertion intolerance disease (SEID), which are fatigue of at least 6 months' duration accompanied by substantial reduction in preillness activities, postexertional malaise, unrefreshing sleep, and either cognitive impairment or orthostatic intolerance. Although the pathophysiology of SEID remains unclear, the phenomenon of central sensitization (the pathophysiologic dysregulation of the thalamus, hypothalamus, and amygdala) is gaining acceptance as a potential cause of SEID as well as of other highly prevalent comorbid conditions, including fibromyalgia, mood disturbances, irritable bowel syndrome, and interstitial cystitis. This patient's history, examination, and previous diagnostic test results point to central sensitization, as demonstrated by the constellation of such symptoms as diffuse arthralgia and myalgia, chronic fatigue, bowel and bladder irritability, chronic headaches, brain fog, paresthesias, and unrefreshing sleep. In patients with SEID, the history and physical examination should guide the choice of diagnostic tests. It is reasonable to obtain a complete blood count, creatine kinase (for myalgia), electrolyte panel, thyroid-stimulating hormone level, fasting glucose level, and kidney and liver chemistry tests; however, unnecessary laboratory, imaging, and invasive studies should be avoided because most patients will have unrevealing findings, which provide no lasting reassurance to patients. In this case, the diagnostic evaluation should be limited unless there is compelling new information to warrant further testing.
Antinuclear antibody testing is an effective screening tool for systemic lupus erythematosus; however, myalgia, arthralgia, and fatigue are insufficient reasons to test for antinuclear antibodies unless accompanied by objective findings of systemic lupus erythematosus.
Patients at moderate to high risk for obstructive sleep apnea should undergo further testing, including a home sleep study or polysomnography. On the basis of this patient's presentation (female, young, normal BMI and neck circumference, lack of daytime sleepiness), she is considered to be at low risk for obstructive sleep apnea, and further sleep testing is not warranted.
Serum cortisol testing is unnecessary in this patient who is not manifesting findings that are suggestive of adrenal failure or insufficiency, such as hypotension, tachycardia, hyponatremia, and hyperkalemia.

**Bibliography**

Committee on the Diagnostic Criteria for Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, Board on the Health of Select Populations, Institute of Medicine. Beyond Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome: Redefining an Illness. Washington, DC: National Academies Press; 2015. PMID: 25695122

This content was last updated in August 2018.