
### Correct Answer: C) Ceftriaxone and levofloxacin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with acute epididymitis.

#### **Key Point:** In older men and persons who practice insertive anal intercourse, infectious epididymitis should be treated with ceftriaxone and a fluoroquinolone, such as levofloxacin.

The most appropriate treatment is ceftriaxone and levofloxacin. This patient's history and physical examination findings (fever, erythema, and swelling of the hemiscrotum; tenderness to palpation near the epididymis; and urinary symptoms) are concerning for a diagnosis of acute epididymitis. Prehn sign, which is alleviation of pain with elevation of the testicle or scrotum, can clinically support this diagnosis. Infectious epididymitis has a bimodal distribution: men younger than 35 years and older than 55 years. In younger patients, sexually transmitted infections (chlamydia and gonorrhea) are the most likely cause. In older patients and those who practice insertive anal intercourse, Escherichia coli, Enterobacteriaceae, and Pseudomonas species should be considered. In older men and persons who practice insertive anal intercourse, infectious epididymitis should be treated with ceftriaxone and a fluoroquinolone, such as levofloxacin, to provide antimicrobial activity against cephalosporin-resistant organisms, including Pseudomonas species.
In younger patients (age <35 years), the most common infectious etiologies of acute epididymitis include Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Ceftriaxone is adequate coverage for N. gonorrhoeae but not C. trachomatis infection, and would not be an appropriate choice in a younger patient. In these men, and in the absence of risk factors for gram-negative infection (anal intercourse, urologic instrumentation), empirically treating with ceftriaxone and doxycycline (or azithromycin, if the patient is intolerant to doxycycline) would be appropriate.
Epididymitis can also have noninfectious causes (for example, trauma, autoimmune disease, or vasculitis). Treatment includes scrotal support, ice, and NSAIDs. Analgesic agents and scrotal support are supportive measures that can be offered to all patients presenting with acute epididymitis. However, the most appropriate treatment for this patient with risk factors for bacterial epididymitis and no history of trauma or findings supporting autoimmune disease or vasculitis would be initiation of an antimicrobial regimen rather than supportive therapies alone.

**Bibliography**

McConaghy JR, Panchal B. Epididymitis: an overview. Am Fam Physician. 2016;94:723-726. PMID: 27929243

This content was last updated in October 2020.