
### Correct Answer: C) Diagnostic mammography and ultrasonography 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a breast mass in a woman aged 30 years and older.

#### **Key Point:** For evaluation of palpable breast abnormalities in women aged 40 years or older, mammography, followed in most cases by ultrasonography, is recommended.

This patient's breast mass should be evaluated with both diagnostic mammography and ultrasonography. Any dominant mass in the breast warrants diagnostic imaging to determine the nature of the mass and the appropriate management. A clinical examination alone cannot differentiate between a cyst and a solid mass. In a woman aged 30 years or older, diagnostic mammography is recommended for evaluation of a palpable mass, to assess for a spiculated density or associated pleomorphic calcifications that may indicate malignancy. Diagnostic mammography may also include magnification views of the focal area of concern. In addition, targeted ultrasonography is needed to determine whether the mass is cystic or solid; however, ultrasonography is unnecessary in cases in which mammography shows a clearly benign correlate or a normal, fatty area of breast tissue in the location of the palpable finding. This diagnostic evaluation can help determine a benign finding from an indeterminate or suspicious finding requiring needle biopsy. For women aged 40 years or older, mammography, followed in most cases by ultrasonography, is recommended. For women aged 30 to 39 years old, ultrasonography or mammography may be performed first at the discretion of the radiologist or referring clinician.
Breast MRI and other advanced imaging have little to no role in the routine diagnostic evaluation of palpable breast abnormalities. Breast MRI is not an appropriate imaging technique for evaluation of palpable symptoms because it provides little added information to careful evaluation with mammography and ultrasonography.
Definitive diagnosis of a breast mass is obtained by tissue sampling using fine-needle aspiration, core-needle biopsy with or without stereotactic or ultrasound guidance, or excisional biopsy. Fine-needle aspiration is generally reserved for ultrasound-confirmed cystic lesions. Core-needle biopsy is the test of choice for most solid lesions, as it provides more tissue for histology and tissue markers. Excisional biopsy is used when core-needle biopsy findings are nondiagnostic or when biopsy and imaging studies do not concur. Further management of abnormal pathologic findings requires consultation with a breast surgeon and oncologist. Needle aspiration, core-needle biopsy, and excision are all premature until the imaging evaluation is completed.
Ultrasonography is often preferred in women younger than age 30 years because the increased density of breast tissue in younger women limits the usefulness of mammography. Ultrasonography may also be a better choice for pregnant patients in order to avoid radiation exposure.

**Bibliography**

Lehman CD, Lee AY, Lee CI. Imaging management of palpable breast abnormalities. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2014;203:1142-53. PMID: 25341156 doi:10.2214/AJR.14.12725

This content was last updated in August 2018.