
### Correct Answer: D) No additional interventions 

**Educational Objective:** Manage perioperative anticoagulation in a patient receiving warfarin.

#### **Key Point:** In patients on warfarin who are undergoing surgery, bridging anticoagulation is typically reserved for patients at highest risk for thromboembolism.

The most appropriate management of this patient's preoperative anticoagulation is to withhold warfarin without bridging anticoagulation. Anticoagulant therapy increases the risk for perioperative hemorrhage and should be discontinued in most patients before surgery. Bridging anticoagulation is the administration of therapeutic doses of short-acting parenteral therapy, usually heparin, when anticoagulant therapy is being withheld during the perioperative period in patients with elevated thrombotic risk. This patient is undergoing a procedure associated with elevated bleeding risk, and she has no history of stroke, transient ischemic attack (TIA), or intracardiac thrombus. Therefore, the risks of bridging anticoagulation outweigh the thrombotic risk, and the warfarin should be withheld without bridging anticoagulation.
There is no role for aspirin in bridging anticoagulation. In patients with normal kidney function who require bridging anticoagulation, low-molecular-weight heparin is the agent of choice.
In 2019, the American Heart Association/American College of Cardiology/Heart Rhythm Society updated their 2014 guideline on the management of atrial fibrillation. For patients with atrial fibrillation without a mechanical heart valve, the updated guideline recommends that decisions about bridging therapy should balance the risk for stroke with the risk for bleeding. Bridging is typically reserved for patients at highest risk for thromboembolism. The 2018 American College of Chest Physicians guideline on antithrombotic therapy for atrial fibrillation recommends forgoing bridging in patients with atrial fibrillation on warfarin who do not have a mechanical valve and are otherwise not at high risk for thromboembolism. This patient has no additional risk factors for thromboembolism other than chronic atrial fibrillation, and perioperative bridging is not required.

**Bibliography**

January CT, Wann LS, Calkins H, Chen LY, Cigarroa JE, Cleveland JC Jr, et al. 2019 AHA/ACC/HRS focused update of the 2014 AHA/ACC/HRS guideline for the management of patients with atrial fibrillation: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2019. PMID: 30703431 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2019.01.011

This content was last updated in May 2019.