
### Correct Answer: C) Nucleic acid amplification test for chlamydia and gonorrhea 

**Educational Objective:** Screen for genital and extragenital gonorrhea and chlamydia in a man who has sex with men.

#### **Key Point:** The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that men who have sex with men should be screened at least annually for genital and extragenital chlamydial and gonorrheal infections, syphilis, and HIV infection.

The most appropriate screening strategy in this patient is nucleic acid amplification testing (NAAT) of urine, rectal, and pharyngeal specimens for Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis. Multiple studies have demonstrated an increased prevalence of genital and extragenital chlamydial and gonorrheal infections in men who have sex with men (MSM). In one study, prevalence rates of N. gonorrhoeae in MSM were 6.9% (rectal), 6% (urethral), and 9.2% (pharyngeal); for C. trachomatis, prevalence rates in MSM were 7.9% (rectal), 5.2% (urethral), and 1.4% (pharyngeal). Most infections are asymptomatic. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends at least annual gonorrhea screening with NAAT of urethral, pharyngeal, and rectal specimens and at least annual screening for chlamydia with NAAT of urethral and rectal specimens. The CDC notes that commercially available NAATs have not been cleared by the FDA for some of these indications; however, these tests can be used by laboratories that have met all regulatory requirements for an off-label procedure. The CDC also recommends screening for syphilis and HIV at least annually in MSM. In contrast to the CDC, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force has found insufficient evidence to recommend screening for chlamydia and gonorrhea in men.
Human papillomavirus (HPV)–associated conditions (such as anogenital warts and anal squamous intraepithelial lesions) are common among MSM. However, data are insufficient to recommend routine anal cancer screening with anal cytology in MSM. HPV vaccination is recommended for all patients through age 26 years.
Sexual transmission of hepatitis C infection can occur in MSM with HIV infection. The CDC recommends that screening should be performed at least yearly for hepatitis C in this population. Hepatitis C screening is also indicated in all past and current injection drug users. Because the patient does not use drugs and his HIV status is unknown, screening for hepatitis C is not indicated at this time.
All MSM should also be tested for hepatitis A and B. Vaccination against hepatitis A and B is recommended for all MSM in whom previous infection or vaccination cannot be documented.

**Bibliography**

Wilkin T. Clinical practice. Primary care for men who have sex with men. N Engl J Med. 2015;373:854-62. PMID: 26308686 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp1401303

This content was last updated in October 2020.