
### Correct Answer: C) Continue fluoxetine as long-term maintenance therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat recurrent major depressive disorder.

#### **Key Point:** The American Psychiatric Association recommends long-term maintenance therapy for patients with three or more episodes of major depressive disorder, persistent depressive disorder, or residual depressive symptoms; the antidepressant dosage that was effective in acute treatment should be continued for long-term maintenance.

Long-term continuation of fluoxetine at the current dosage is appropriate for this patient with recurrent depression. Guidelines from the American Psychiatric Association (APA) recommend long-term maintenance therapy for patients with three or more episodes of major depressive disorder, persistent depressive disorder, or residual depressive symptoms. The same antidepressant and dosage that were effective in the treatment of acute depression should be continued for long-term maintenance.
Fluoxetine therapy for 8 months should be sufficient for the treatment of the patient's major depressive disorder, but the medication should not be tapered. Because he has had two other episodes of depression, he should be maintained on antidepressant therapy to prevent recurrence.
Switching to another antidepressant medication (such as bupropion) for long-term maintenance is not indicated unless the patient develops intolerable adverse effects from the initial medication.
Discontinuing fluoxetine is not recommended, even if the patient were not a candidate for long-term therapy. APA guidelines recommend continuing treatment for at least 4 to 9 months after resolution of major depressive disorder, followed by gradual tapering of the antidepressant dosage. Antidepressant drugs should not be stopped abruptly because of the risk for discontinuation syndrome, which is most frequently seen in patients who abruptly stop selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. The most common discontinuation symptoms include dizziness, fatigue, headache, and nausea. Other symptoms include agitation, anxiety, dysphoria, and irritability. Onset of the syndrome is within 1 to 4 days of abruptly stopping antidepressant therapy or after a rapid taper. Although fluoxetine has the lowest incidence of discontinuation syndrome, therapy should be tapered rather than abruptly stopped.

**Bibliography**

American Psychiatric Association. Practice Guideline for the Treatment of Patients With Major Depressive Disorder. 3rd edition. Arlington, VA: American Psychiatric Association; 2010. Available at https://psychiatryonline.org/pb/assets/raw/sitewide/practice_guidelines/guidelines/mdd.pdf. Accessed July 25, 2018.

This content was last updated in August 2018.