
### Correct Answer: C) Obtain all previous medical records 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with medically unexplained symptoms.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with medically unexplained symptoms, clinicians must approach each symptom in a focused manner and diligently review any previous diagnostic evaluations.

The most appropriate management of this patient with medically unexplained symptoms (MUS) is to avoid testing and obtain previous medical records. The most common symptoms in patients presenting with MUS are chest pain, fatigue, dizziness, headache, swelling, back pain, shortness of breath, insomnia, abdominal pain, and numbness. Frequently, patients have seen many primary care and subspecialty physicians over the course of many years and have undergone extensive laboratory testing, imaging studies, and procedures. Because patients with MUS present on a continuum of physical and mental health, a comprehensive, holistic approach is essential. Each presenting symptom merits a relevant history and physical examination. In most cases, prior records should be reviewed before repeating or extending the evaluation unless the patient's condition has changed substantially. Physicians must possess excellent patient-centered communication skills and listen carefully to the patient, validating concerns and responding to emotions. Additionally, the initial assessment should include specific questions to elicit the patient's concerns, underlying psychological status, and the degree of distress and disability attributable to the symptoms. Long-term management of the patient with MUS is challenging. A therapeutic alliance and a mutually respectful physician-patient relationship are key features in the successful management of the patient with MUS. In keeping with a patient-centered approach, the patient should be engaged fully in the plan, focusing on physical, psychological, and social aspects of health. The physician and patient should work together to create and maintain an atmosphere of mutual trust.
Physicians often find it difficult to limit further testing, prescribing, or referral because they fear missing an elusive diagnosis. The evidence that more testing helps reassure patients with MUS or improves outcomes is limited. Additional testing, such as a comprehensive metabolic profile, C-reactive protein level, rheumatoid factor, and antinuclear antibody titer, should not occur without an initial thorough investigation of the results of previous evaluations and determining whether symptoms have changed.
Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is the classic autoinflammatory disease, characterized by discrete attacks of pain lasting up to 72 hours associated with serosal inflammation (joints, chest, abdomen), rash, and abnormalities on MEFV1 genetic testing. This patient's presentation does not match that of FMF. More importantly, additional testing should be avoided until after a review of previous medical records.
It is possible that the patient may ultimately benefit from a psychiatric consultation. However, before that occurs, the physician should review the patient's medical records; evaluate the current status of his symptoms; elicit his concerns, psychological status, and degree of distress and disability attributable to the symptoms; and establish a trusting relationship with the patient.

**Bibliography**

Evens A, Vendetta L, Krebs K, et al. Medically unexplained neurologic symptoms: a primer for physicians who make the initial encounter. Am J Med. 2015;128:1059-64. PMID: 25910791

This content was last updated in August 2018.