
### Correct Answer: E) Neck exercises 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with cervical radiculopathy with neck exercises.

#### **Key Point:** Cervical radiculopathy, caused by nerve root compression, usually resolves within 2 to 3 months by using conservative measures; stretching and strengthening exercises of the neck muscles provide the best intermediate-term relief.

The most appropriate management of this patient with symptoms consistent with cervical radiculopathy is neck exercises. Stretching and strengthening exercises provide intermediate-term relief of symptoms and should be part of a multimodal approach. Other nonpharmacologic options include acupuncture, early mobilization, and spinal manipulation. Cervical traction appears to be of limited benefit. Patients should also be informed that most patients with neck pain have resolution or near-resolution of symptoms within 2 to 3 months of onset by using conservative measures.
The use of a cervical collar in patients with neck pain should be avoided because it can lead to neck muscle atrophy, especially when used for longer than 1 to 2 weeks. Shorter-term use appears to be no more effective for symptom relief than sham interventions.
This patient lacks any “red flag” findings that would warrant imaging, whether in the form of plain radiography or MRI. Features that would prompt imaging include constitutional symptoms; personal history of or concern for malignancy; progressive neurologic symptoms; or myelopathic findings, such as difficulty writing, gait disturbance, hypertonia, hyperflexia, or problems with fine manipulation.
Electrodiagnostic testing is most helpful to diagnose peripheral nerve entrapment syndromes or peripheral neuropathy as the cause of arm symptoms. Both of these conditions should be considered when arm symptoms are more prominent than neck symptoms. Electrodiagnostic testing can also identify cervical radiculopathy as the cause of neck pain but only when motor axonal injury is present; cervical radicular pain can exist in the absence of axonal injury. Therefore, the best course of action for this patient is conservative treatment without diagnostic testing.
NSAIDs are considered first-line pharmacologic therapy for acute neck pain, including acute cervical radiculopathy. Cyclobenzaprine, when used at doses greater than 15 mg/d, has been shown to be effective for treating acute neck pain when muscle spasm is present, although it should be used with caution in older patients. Gabapentin, a neuromodulator, can be used to treat chronic radicular pain; however, it does not have a role in the management of acute radicular symptoms.

**Bibliography**

Iyer S, Kim HJ. Cervical radiculopathy. Curr Rev Musculoskelet Med. 2016;9:272-80. PMID: 27250042 doi:10.1007/s12178-016-9349-4

This content was last updated in August 2018.