
### Correct Answer: A) Human papillomavirus vaccine 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent human papillomavirus infection with appropriate immunization.

#### **Key Point:** Vaccination against human papillomavirus is recommended for all patients aged 11 or 12 years or between the ages of 13 and 26 years if not previously vaccinated.

This healthy 25-year-old woman should be offered the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine. HPV vaccination prevents persistent HPV infection, which can lead to cervical, anogenital, and nasopharyngeal cancers. HPV genotypes 16 and 18 are responsible for causing most cases of cervical cancer and many cases of vulvar, vaginal, anal, penile, and oropharyngeal cancers. HPV genotypes 6 and 11 cause most cases of genital warts. The HPV vaccine series is recommended for all patients aged 11 or 12 years or between the ages of 13 and 26 years if not given previously. Three different HPV vaccines are licensed for use in females (bivalent, quadrivalent, and nine-valent), and two HPV vaccines are licensed for use in males (quadrivalent and nine-valent). All vaccines target genotypes 16 and 18, and the quadrivalent vaccine also targets genotypes 6 and 11. The nine-valent vaccine protects against five additional genotypes that cause cervical cancer, resulting in the potential prevention of 90% of cervical, vulvar, vaginal, and anal cancers. If administered after age 15 years, a three-dose series is recommended, whereas a two-dose series is recommended in younger individuals.
Vaccination against meningococcal serogroups A, C, W135, and Y with the quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine is recommended in all persons by age 18 years. This patient received the preferred vaccination schedule with initial vaccination at age 11 to 12 years with a booster dose at age 16. Revaccination with a single dose of the quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine is indicated in adult patients who are considered to be at increased risk, including those with asplenia (functional or anatomic), those with persistent complement deficiencies, first-year college students living in a dormitory, travelers to endemic areas, microbiologists exposed to Neisseria meningitidis, military recruits, persons at increased risk during an outbreak, and persons infected with HIV. Revaccination is indicated every 5 years in those who remain at increased risk. This patient does not have any indications for quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate revaccination.
Adults aged 19 years and older who did not receive the tetanus, diphtheria, and acellular pertussis (Tdap) vaccine during adolescence should receive a dose of the Tdap vaccine, followed by tetanus and diphtheria toxoids (Td) or Tdap boosters every 10 years. Because this patient received a Tdap vaccine 7 years ago, she should receive a Td or Tdap booster in 3 years.
Pneumococcal vaccination is recommended in all adults aged 65 years and older and adults aged 19 to 64 years with certain high-risk conditions. This young patient does not smoke or have any immunocompromising or chronic medical conditions; therefore, the 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Petrosky E, Bocchini JA Jr, Hariri S, Chesson H, Curtis CR, Saraiya M, et al; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Use of 9-valent human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine: updated HPV vaccination recommendations of the advisory committee on immunization practices. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2015;64:300-4. PMID: 25811679

This content was last updated in March 2021.