
### Correct Answer: B) Hormone therapy with estrogen and progesterone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat vasomotor symptoms of menopause.

#### **Key Point:** Hormone therapy is an option for women with moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms of menopause who are younger than 60 years and within 10 years of menopause onset, provided they are at low risk for breast cancer, coronary heart disease, stroke, and thromboembolic disease.

The most appropriate management is hormone replacement therapy with estrogen and progesterone. The hallmark symptoms of menopause vary greatly in duration, frequency, and severity, but they may include vasomotor symptoms (hot flushes, night sweats) and urogenital symptoms (dyspareunia, vaginal dryness). Symptoms generally resolve spontaneously within a few years, and treatment should be based on symptom severity. Hormone therapy is effective treatment for relief of vasomotor symptoms of menopause, and for women who are younger than 60 years and are within 10 years of menopause onset, the low absolute risk of adverse events supports the option to prescribe hormone therapy for women with moderate to severe vasomotor or urogenital symptoms who are at low risk for breast cancer, coronary heart disease, stroke, and thromboembolic disease. The clinician should prescribe the lowest effective dosage, titrating up if needed, for the shortest period of time needed to control symptoms. Use of hormone therapy in menopause should be reassessed every year; treatment duration is based on the continued presence of vasomotor symptoms. Estrogen-progesterone therapy taken for more than 5 years is associated with increased risk for breast cancer and requires that women receive individualized breast cancer risk evaluation. For this patient with an intact uterus and no contraindications, combination estrogen-progesterone therapy is the best choice.
Long-term unopposed endometrial estrogen exposure increases the risk for endometrial hyperplasia or malignancy, and for women who experience menopausal symptoms and have an intact uterus, estrogen should be combined with progestin to avoid unopposed estrogen-related endometrial proliferation. For women who have had a hysterectomy, estrogen alone would be the preferred hormone therapy but would be inappropriate for this patient.
Ospemifene is an estrogen agonist/antagonist that is used in postmenopausal women to reduce the severity of moderate to severe dyspareunia associated with genitourinary symptoms of menopause; however, it is not indicated for vasomotor symptom management.
Vaginal estrogen therapy is effective for managing genitourinary syndrome of menopause, although vaginal estrogen alone will not be adequate therapy for vasomotor symptoms of menopause, as experienced by this patient.

**Bibliography**

The NAMS 2017 Hormone Therapy Position Statement Advisory Panel. The 2017 hormone therapy position statement of The North American Menopause Society. Menopause. 2017;24:728-753. PMID: 28650869 doi:10.1097/GME.0000000000000921

This content was last updated in August 2018.