
### Correct Answer: B) MRI of the lumbosacral spine 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient suspected of having cauda equina syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Nerve root involvement of the cauda equina requires immediate imaging, preferably with MRI, and surgical intervention to prevent permanent neurologic damage.

This patient should undergo emergent MRI of the lumbosacral spine. His history and physical examination findings are concerning for cauda equina syndrome, which is a surgical emergency. Cauda equina syndrome is most commonly caused by a large disk herniation, but it can also result from direct trauma, infection, or malignancy. Symptoms include low back pain with radiation to the legs, saddle anesthesia, bowel and/or bladder dysfunction, erectile dysfunction, and leg weakness. On physical examination, absent or decreased perianal sensation, diminished anal sphincter tone, hypoactive or absent ankle reflexes, and focal sensory and muscle weakness are commonly present. MRI is considered the gold standard for diagnosing cauda equina syndrome.
CT can be obtained in patients suspected of having cauda equina syndrome who are unable to undergo MRI. However, MRI is considered to be better at visualizing the soft tissue structures of the cauda equina than CT and is therefore the preferred imaging modality in patients who can undergo either procedure, such as this one.
Although plain radiography can be performed when there is concern for metastatic cancer to the vertebral bodies, it has no value in visualizing the soft tissue structures of the cauda equina and therefore is not the preferred imaging modality in cases of suspected cauda equina syndrome.
Signs that urgent surgical intervention may be necessary include bowel- or bladder-sphincter dysfunction, particularly urine retention or urinary incontinence; diminished perineal sensation, sciatica, or sensory motor deficits; and bilateral or unilateral motor deficits that are severe and progressive. Forgoing imaging in this patient and failing to provide definitive surgical intervention could result in permanent neurologic deficits.

**Bibliography**

Chou R. In the clinic. Low back pain. Ann Intern Med. 2014;160:ITC6-1. PMID: 25009837

This content was last updated in August 2018.