
### Correct Answer: D) Intranasal fluticasone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat cough due to acute rhinosinusitis.

#### **Key Point:** Acute rhinosinusitis may be treated symptomatically with analgesics and intranasal glucocorticoids; antibiotics are not recommended without clearly established bacterial infection.

This patient with acute cough due to acute rhinosinusitis should be treated with an intranasal glucocorticoid, such as fluticasone. Most upper respiratory tract infections (URIs) are caused by viral infections and resolve spontaneously within a few days. Patients without clear evidence of bacterial infection should be treated symptomatically. A meta-analysis of patients with acute rhinosinusitis found that use of intranasal glucocorticoids increased the rate of symptom response compared with placebo; there was a dose-response curve, with higher doses offering greater relief. Analgesics, such as NSAIDs and acetaminophen, may relieve pain. Only limited evidence supports saline irrigation in the relief of nasal symptoms; careful attention should be paid to the use of sterile or bottled water. Instructions for nasal saline irrigation are available online (). First-generation antihistamines may help dry nasal secretions; however, evidence supporting their efficacy is lacking, and sedation is a common side effect. Decongestants are of possible benefit in patients with evidence of eustachian tube dysfunction but should be used with caution in elderly patients and those with cardiovascular disease, hypertension, angle-closure glaucoma, or bladder neck obstruction. Antitussive agents are generally ineffective.
Empiric treatment of URI symptoms with antibiotics (such as amoxicillin) is ineffective, increases bacterial antibiotic resistance, and may cause multiple adverse effects, including Clostridium difficile colitis. Antibiotics should be reserved for patients with symptoms lasting more than 10 days, worsening symptoms after initially improving viral illness, or severe symptoms or signs of high fever (>39 °C [102.2 °F]) with purulent nasal discharge or facial pain for at least 3 consecutive days.
A systematic review concluded that centrally acting (codeine, dextromethorphan) or peripherally acting (moguisteine) antitussive therapy results in little improvement in acute cough and is not recommended.
Inhaled albuterol is indicated for patients with evidence of wheezing, which this patient does not have. For patients who develop postinfectious airway hyperreactivity with a subacute or chronic cough, albuterol and other asthma therapies are beneficial.

**Bibliography**

Harris AM, Hicks LA, Qaseem A; High Value Care Task Force of the American College of Physicians and for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Appropriate antibiotic use for acute respiratory tract infection in adults: advice for high-value care from the American College of Physicians and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Ann Intern Med. 2016;164:425-34. PMID: 26785402

This content was last updated in August 2018.