
### Correct Answer: C) Hydromorphone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat pain in a patient with advanced serious illness and chronic kidney disease with hydromorphone.

#### **Key Point:** Hydromorphone is the preferred opioid to treat cancer-related pain in patients with chronic kidney disease.

The most appropriate treatment of this patient's pain is hydromorphone. This patient's back pain is caused by progressive myeloma, and she requires rapid treatment of her pain with oral opioids initially. Given the concern for worsening back pain in the setting of malignancy, she requires an urgent MRI of her spine to rule out impending malignant spinal cord compression, and aggressive pain treatment while pursuing a diagnostic strategy is critical. Hydromorphone is a potent opioid agonist that is thought to be safer in patients with severe kidney impairment, such as this patient on hemodialysis.
A transdermal fentanyl patch is an effective analgesic for opioid-tolerant patients. It does not have clinically relevant active metabolites that would accumulate in the setting of end-stage kidney disease; however, it should be used only in opioid-tolerant patients. This patient is opioid naïve, and she should not be started on a long-acting agent until her total daily opioid needs are identified and an appropriate equianalgesic dose of fentanyl is calculated.
Gabapentin binds to the α2δ subunit of voltage-gated calcium channels; it can be an effective nonopioid adjuvant in the treatment of various pain types, including neuropathic pain. Titration of gabapentin can be prolonged to avoid adverse effects; therefore, it would not be helpful in this patient in need of more rapid analgesia.
Morphine is a prototypical opioid agonist, but its active metabolites accumulate in the setting of kidney failure and increase the risk for adverse neuroexcitatory effects with aggressive titration. Morphine, codeine, and meperidine are all contraindicated in patients with kidney failure (glomerular filtration rate <30 mL/min/1.73 m2).
Tramadol is a weak opioid agonist whose analgesic activity is influenced by its inhibition of serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake. It is a poor analgesic in the setting of cancer-related pain and should not be used in patients with kidney failure due to accumulation of active metabolites. In addition, tramadol has the potential for significant drug interactions.

**Bibliography**

Swetz KM, Kamal AH. Palliative care. Ann Intern Med. 2018;168:ITC33-ITC48. PMID: 29507970

This content was last updated in August 2018.