
### Correct Answer: A) Dobutamine stress echocardiography 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate for coronary artery disease preoperatively in a patient with elevated cardiac risk and poor functional capacity.

#### **Key Point:** Preoperative cardiac stress testing should be considered in patients at elevated risk for a major adverse cardiac event or if functional capacity cannot be determined, but only if the results of stress testing will change perioperative management.

Dobutamine stress echocardiography is indicated in this patient undergoing elective noncardiac surgery with an elevated cardiac risk, poor functional capacity, symptoms, and electrocardiographic findings concerning for possible silent ischemia. In patients undergoing noncardiac surgery, risk calculators, including the Revised Cardiac Risk Index (RCRI) and American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program myocardial infarction and cardiac arrest calculator, can be used to determine the risk for a perioperative major adverse cardiac event (MACE). Asymptomatic patients at low risk (<1% risk for perioperative MACE) may proceed to surgery without preoperative cardiac stress testing, whereas patients with elevated risk (>1% risk for perioperative MACE) should undergo assessment of functional capacity. Metabolic equivalents (METs) are used to represent the patient's functional capacity based on the intensity of activity able to be performed. If the patient's functional capacity exceeds 4 METs, the patient may proceed to surgery without further testing. Cardiac stress testing should be considered in patients at elevated risk for MACE with a functional capacity of less than 4 METs or if functional capacity cannot be determined, but only if the results of stress testing will change perioperative management. In this case, the patient's RCRI score is 4 (pathologic Q waves on electrocardiogram, stroke, insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, and preoperative creatinine >2.0 mg/dL [176.8 µmol/L]) corresponding to a MACE (cardiac death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, and nonfatal cardiac arrest) risk of greater than 5.4%, and stress testing is indicated. Because of the elective nature of his scheduled surgery, he would be able to proceed with preoperative coronary angiography if indicated based on the results of stress testing.
This patient's exercise capacity is limited by fatigue, dyspnea, and hip pain; therefore, exercise electrocardiography would most likely be nondiagnostic.
Echocardiography to evaluate left ventricular function should not be routinely performed preoperatively. However, it is recommended in certain clinical scenarios, such as in the presence of dyspnea of unknown origin, heart failure with worsening dyspnea or overall change in clinical status, known left ventricular dysfunction without assessment in the last year, and known or suspected moderate to severe valvular stenosis or regurgitation without echocardiographic assessment in the last year or with a change in clinical status. In this patient, transthoracic echocardiography would not provide the necessary evaluation for myocardial ischemia.

**Bibliography**

Fleisher LA, Fleischmann KE, Auerbach AD, Barnason SA, Beckman JA, Bozkurt B, et al; American College of Cardiology. 2014 ACC/AHA guideline on perioperative cardiovascular evaluation and management of patients undergoing noncardiac surgery: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2014;64:e77-137. PMID: 25091544 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2014.07.944

This content was last updated in August 2018.