
### Correct Answer: B) Directly approach the colleague and help her plan for confidential evaluation 

**Educational Objective:** Manage impairment in a physician colleague.

#### **Key Point:** Every physician is responsible for protecting patients from an impaired colleague and for assisting an impaired colleague by identifying appropriate sources of help.

The most appropriate management is to directly approach the colleague with the concerns of impairment and guide her through a plan to determine whether impairment exists and, if so, how to manage it. Impairment may be caused by medical or psychiatric illness or the use of psychoactive substances; however, the presence of these conditions does not necessarily signify impairment. According to the American College of Physicians Ethics Manual, every physician is responsible for protecting patients from an impaired colleague and for assisting an impaired colleague by identifying appropriate sources of help. These responsibilities should not be hampered by personal relationships, shame, or fear of harming a colleague. This physician's colleague, who may be demonstrating signs of cognitive impairment, would benefit from assistance.
When signs of physician impairment are present, it is imperative to intervene before patient harm occurs, if possible. Therefore, continuing to monitor the colleague is not the best option.
Although the physician may be tempted to offer to perform the colleague's medical evaluation, several risks are associated with caring for patients with whom a previous relationship exists, including impaired objectivity, insufficient history taking (for example, sexual history), incomplete examination, and incomplete or biased assessment. The colleague should undergo a confidential and complete medical assessment with another physician to search for reversible causes of impairment.
There is a clear ethical responsibility to report a physician who appears to be impaired to an appropriate authority, which may include a chief of staff, chief of service, or, if the impairment is serious, a state medical board. The legal requirements and thresholds for reporting impaired physicians vary. Most state medical societies or medical boards have physician health programs for physicians with potentially impairing illnesses that can be accessed through a voluntary or mandatory track; these physician health programs provide confidential assessment and treatment, with the goal of restoration of function. At this point, there is no objective evidence of impairment nor does patient harm seem likely, and a confidential evaluation would be the most appropriate first step.

**Bibliography**

Snyder L; American College of Physicians Ethics, Professionalism, and Human Rights Committee. American College of Physicians ethics manual: sixth edition. Ann Intern Med. 2012;156:73-104. PMID: 22213573 doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-156-1-201201031-00001

This content was last updated in March 2020.