
### Correct Answer: B) Psychotherapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat erectile dysfunction in a patient with multiple comorbid conditions.

#### **Key Point:** Erectile dysfunction in a patient who experiences nocturnal penile tumescence is most likely situational or mood related; cognitive behavioral therapy, biofeedback, or sensory awareness exercises with a psychotherapist are first-line therapies.

The most appropriate treatment for this patient's erectile dysfunction (ED) is psychotherapy. The patient has a history of depression, which can predispose to intermittent ED. Given that the patient is still able to achieve an erection 50% of the time and experiences nocturnal penile tumescence, a diagnosis of ED secondary to his other medical comorbidities or medication usage is far less likely. On the basis of these findings, he likely has situational or mood-related ED. In situations such as this one, it can be beneficial to proceed with therapies such as cognitive behavioral therapy, biofeedback therapy, and sensory awareness exercises.
Alprostadil is considered second-line therapy, as it requires routine intracavernous injections, transurethral injections, or transurethral suppositories. For many patients, this option is poorly tolerated. In patients with depression and intermittent ED, alprostadil would not be recommended before trying psychotherapy, which is much better tolerated.
Sildenafil and other oral phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors are considered first-line medical therapy for ED. However, sildenafil is contraindicated in patients taking nitrate therapy, such as this one.
Testosterone supplementation may be considered in patients with ED and confirmed symptomatic androgen deficiency, but only after consideration of the multiple contraindications and discussion of potential harms and benefits with the patient. This patient has a normal total testosterone level and has no alterations in secondary sexual characteristics, which make the diagnosis of clinically relevant androgen deficiency unlikely. Furthermore, testosterone therapy should be avoided in patients with untreated obstructive sleep apnea.

**Bibliography**

Mobley DF, Khera M, Baum N. Recent advances in the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Postgrad Med J. 2017;93:679-685. PMID: 28751439

This content was last updated in October 2020.