
### Correct Answer: C) Morton neuroma 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Morton neuroma.

#### **Key Point:** Hallmarks of a Morton neuroma are pain between the metatarsal heads, the sensation of walking on a pebble, and no obvious abnormalities of the foot upon clinical examination or palpation.

This patient's symptoms are most likely due to a Morton neuroma, a condition that causes compression of the interdigital nerve. Common symptoms include paresthesias and the sensation of walking on a pebble. On examination, there are usually no obvious abnormalities, but some patients may have tenderness to direct palpation of the involved interspace. The cause is thought to be use of constricting footwear, such as high-heeled shoes. First-line therapy consists of wearing nonconstricting footwear and local padding. In patients who do not respond to these measures, a local glucocorticoid injection can be offered. For recalcitrant cases, sclerosing alcohol injections, radiofrequency ablation, and surgery (neurectomy) have been used with some success.
Bunion (hallux) deformity refers to lateral deviation of the great toe with medial bone deformity. This condition typically causes pain at the site of the deformity due to footwear pressure. The location of this patient's pain and lack of visible deformity on examination make bunion deformity an incorrect diagnosis.
Hammertoe deformity is also associated with constricting footwear; it refers to a proximal interphalangeal joint flexion deformity with dorsal interphalangeal joint extension and extended or neutral position of the metatarsophalangeal joint. This patient's normal foot appearance makes this diagnosis incorrect.
Plantar fasciitis typically causes pain localized to the medial inferior heel at the insertion of the plantar fascia in the medial calcaneal tubercle. Pain is usually present at activity initiation following prolonged rest and improves with further walking (for example, the first few steps in the morning after arising from bed). As the condition progresses, pain may be present with both activity and rest. The location and description of this patient's pain are not consistent with plantar fasciitis.

**Bibliography**

Ferkel E, Davis WH, Ellington JK. Entrapment neuropathies of the foot and ankle. Clin Sports Med. 2015;34:791-801. PMID: 26409596 doi:10.1016/j.csm.2015.06.002

This content was last updated in August 2018.