
### Correct Answer: D) Model for Improvement 

**Educational Objective:** Identify an appropriate quality improvement model to reduce postoperative wound infection.

#### **Key Point:** The Model for Improvement relies on identifying a goal to be accomplished with a change, determining how the results of a change will be measured, and deciding on the changes that will bring about an improvement.

The most appropriate tool to assist in reducing postoperative wound sepsis at this institution is the Model for Improvement. The Model for Improvement focuses on achieving specific and measurable results in a specified population. This model relies on identifying a goal to be accomplished with a change, determining how the results of a change will be measured, and deciding on the changes that will bring about an improvement. These changes are tested and implemented using the Plan-Do-Study-Act (PDSA) cycle. PDSA cycles are rapid tests of improvement, and additional PDSA cycles are completed until the desired results are achieved. A medical center, for example, may set the specific goal of decreasing central line–associated bloodstream infections and use the PDSA cycle to rapidly implement and assess the impact of changes, such as using a central line bundle.
A clinical audit involves measuring current practices against desirable outcomes, which are usually guideline based. Feedback is often provided at the individual level. The audit can identify deviations from desired care (for example, surgical infection rate) but does not establish a goal, an intervention, or a metric to gauge the success of the intervention for the purposes of systematically improving care.
A control chart is a commonly used quality improvement tool. Control charts graphically display variation in a process over time and can help determine whether variation is related to a predictable or unpredictable cause. Control charts can additionally be used to determine whether an intervention has had a positive change. This tool could be useful in measuring change but does not involve goal setting or selecting and implementing an intervention, which are required elements in quality improvement models.
The Lean model focuses on closely examining a system's processes and eliminating non−value-added activities, or waste, within that system. By using a tool called value stream mapping that graphically displays the steps of a process (and the time required for each step) from beginning to end, inefficient areas (waste) in a process can be identified and addressed. The Lean model would not be particularly helpful in identifying causes of surgical site infection, selecting and implementing an intervention, and measuring the outcome.

**Bibliography**

Lau CY. Quality improvement tools and processes. Neurosurg Clin N Am. 2015;26:177-87, viii. PMID: 25771273 doi: 10.1016/j.nec.2014.11.016

This content was last updated in August 2018.