
### Correct Answer: C) Prompted voiding 

**Educational Objective:** Treat functional incontinence in a cognitively impaired patient.

#### **Key Point:** Functional incontinence, which occurs in patients who cannot reach and use the toilet in a timely manner, is treated with prompted voiding.

The most appropriate management is prompted voiding every 2 to 3 hours. There are four main classifications of urinary incontinence: urgency incontinence, stress incontinence, mixed incontinence, and overflow incontinence. Functional incontinence, which occurs in patients who cannot reach and use the toilet in a timely manner, may occur in patients with significant cognitive or mobility impairments. Classifying the type(s) of incontinence helps guide management. This patient demonstrates functional incontinence, in which decreased cognitive function limits her ability to recognize early signs of the need to void, and impaired mobility limits her ability to get to the bathroom when she does recognize the need. Providing assistance and scheduled toileting through prompting are effective for patients who have impaired cognition or mobility.
Oxybutynin is appropriate therapy for urgency incontinence, but only after behavioral therapy has been implemented and found to be inadequate to control symptoms. Additionally, in this elderly woman, anticholinergic therapy would be associated with increased risk for confusion.
This patient does not report stress incontinence, which occurs with increased intra-abdominal pressure (coughing, laughing, sneezing). Stress incontinence is best treated with pelvic muscle floor training. In addition, the ability of a cognitively impaired patient to comprehend the instructions for pelvic floor muscle training and to remember to perform the maneuvers is likely to be limited.
Sling cystourethropexy is used to treat stress urinary incontinence when behavioral therapy (pelvic floor muscle training) has failed. Carefully balancing surgical risk against potential for benefit would have to be considered. This patient does not have stress urinary incontinence, and surgery is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Griebling TL. Urinary incontinence in the elderly. Clin Geriatr Med. 2009;25:445-57. PMID: 19765492 doi:10.1016/j.cger.2009.06.004

This content was last updated in August 2018.