
### Correct Answer: C) Psychotherapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat posttraumatic stress disorder.

#### **Key Point:** Treatment of posttraumatic stress disorder requires psychotherapy from a specialist with experience in treating the disorder; antidepressants are useful adjunctive therapies.

This patient with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) would benefit most from psychotherapy provided by a specialist with experience in treating the disorder. PTSD is a disorder triggered by the experience of a traumatic event. The experience can be personal, through a loved one, or by repeated exposure to details or footage of such an event. Patients have intrusive memories of the event, such as nightmares and flashbacks, and avoid situations that remind them of the event. PTSD also causes functional impairment, hypervigilance, irritability, and sleep disturbance. In addition to psychotherapy, antidepressants are useful adjunctive therapies.
Clonazepam and other benzodiazepines are not effective in the treatment of PTSD and have significant potential for adverse effects given the high rates of concomitant substance use and suicidality in this condition.
Because of the high prevalence of hyperarousal symptoms associated with PTSD, β-blocker therapy with propranolol would seem to be a reasonable therapeutic option. However, evidence suggests that β-blocker therapy is ineffective in patients with PTSD.
Anticonvulsant medications with mood-stabilizing properties, such as topiramate, have been studied as potential therapies to improve symptoms of impulsive behavior, hyperarousal, and flashbacks in patients with PTSD. However, studies have been small and largely negative, and this class of drugs is not considered first-line therapy for PTSD.

**Bibliography**

Shalev A, Liberzon I, Marmar C. Post-traumatic stress disorder. N Engl J Med. 2017;376:2459-2469. PMID: 28636846 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1612499

This content was last updated in August 2018.