
### Correct Answer: D) Ultrasonography 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a breast mass in a woman younger than 30 years.

#### **Key Point:** For women younger than 30 years with a low-risk breast mass, ultrasonography is usually the only imaging required.

The most appropriate diagnostic test for this young woman with a breast mass is ultrasonography. A breast mass is characterized by a lesion that persists throughout the menstrual cycle and differs from the surrounding breast tissue and the corresponding area in the contralateral breast. The differential diagnosis of a palpable breast mass includes abscess, cyst, fat necrosis, fibroadenoma, and neoplasm. Evaluation of a palpable breast mass varies based on the patient's age and risk factors and the degree of clinical suspicion. Mammography and ultrasonography are the initial imaging modalities. Ultrasonography is often preferred in women younger than 30 years because increased breast tissue density in younger women limits the usefulness of mammography. Ultrasonography may also be a better choice for young women and pregnant patients in order to avoid radiation exposure. The main utility of ultrasonography is its ability to differentiate cystic from solid lesions. A cyst is likely to be benign if it has symmetric, round borders with no internal echoes. A solid lesion with uniform borders and uniformly sized internal echoes is consistent with a benign fibroadenoma. In this patient with relatively low-risk clinical symptoms, ultrasonography is preferred. The description of the mass (firm, nontender, mobile mass with well-defined margins and no lymphadenopathy) suggests a benign finding, such as a fibroadenoma or cyst. If the ultrasound shows a simple cyst, no further evaluation is necessary, unless the patient is symptomatic. If the ultrasound reveals a solid lesion, it must be evaluated completely with biopsy.
An image-directed core-needle biopsy of a breast mass would be recommended if an ultrasound shows a solid-appearing, suspicious (Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System [BI-RADS] category 4) or highly suspicious (BI-RADS category 5) mass. This patient must undergo ultrasonography to determine the BI-RADS category of the mass before a decision on whether to perform a biopsy can be made.
The dense breast tissue often found in young women limits the sensitivity, and hence the effectiveness, of mammography. Therefore, mammography is generally not needed for young women with a low-risk breast mass.
For women aged 30 years or older with a palpable breast abnormality, both diagnostic mammography and ultrasonography would be recommended. Because this patient is younger than 30 years, only ultrasonography is warranted at this time.

**Bibliography**

Lehman CD, Lee AY, Lee CI. Imaging management of palpable breast abnormalities. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2014;203:1142-53. PMID: 25341156 doi:10.2214/AJR.14.12725

This content was last updated in August 2018.