
### Correct Answer: A) Acute angle-closure glaucoma 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose acute angle-closure glaucoma.

#### **Key Point:** Characteristic features of acute angle-closure glaucoma include the sudden onset of headache, nausea, vomiting, and vision changes; the appearance of halos around lights; and the presence of a mid-dilated, nonreactive pupil.

In this patient with an acute onset of headache and visual changes with nausea and vomiting, the most likely diagnosis is acute angle-closure glaucoma (AACG). Risk factors for AACG include age older than 60 years, family history, and female sex. Several medications may precipitate an attack or worsen the condition, including anticholinergics; antihistamines; diuretics; and antidepressants, including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Characteristic features include the description of halos around lights, as well as a mid-dilated, nonreactive pupil. An acute attack may be precipitated by dilation of the pupil, which may cause the iris to adhere to the lens, blocking the draining of aqueous humor; the blockage results in increased intraocular pressure. Other situations that can precipitate attacks include excitement, stress, or watching television in a dark room. AACG is an ophthalmologic emergency. Prompt intervention may prevent vision loss.
Bacterial endophthalmitis is inflammation of the aqueous and vitreous humors. It is typically associated with ocular surgery, especially cataract surgery. Patients usually have a subacute history of decreasing vision and eye pain, often mild in intensity. Visual acuity is decreased, and a hypopyon (layering of white blood cells in the anterior chamber) is typically present. Treatment includes intravitreal antibiotics.
Central retinal vein occlusion, which is often caused by a thrombus in the retinal vein, presents as painless onset of blurry vision or vision loss. It is not usually associated with redness or pupillary changes; however, if it is severe, patients may have a relative afferent pupillary defect.
Scleritis can present with severe eye pain that radiates to the periorbital region and watery discharge. Pain may occur with eye movement due to inflammation of the extraocular muscles. The sclera appears violaceous with notable edema. Severe local tenderness can be elicited by exerting pressure on the overlying closed eyelid. In approximately half of scleritis cases, an associated systemic rheumatic or inflammatory disorder is present. The local tenderness to touch and the violaceous and edematous sclera differentiate scleritis from AACG.

**Bibliography**

Tarff A, Behrens A. Ocular emergencies: red eye. Med Clin North Am. 2017;101:615-639. PMID: 28372717 doi:10.1016/j.mcna.2016.12.013

This content was last updated in August 2018.