
### Correct Answer: B) Obtain a three-generation family history 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a request for genetic testing by first taking a family history.

#### **Key Point:** The three-generation family history is an inexpensive and important risk assessment tool that allows clinicians to identify persons at increased risk for developing certain conditions.

The most appropriate management of this patient is to obtain a three-generation family history. Obtaining a family history is an inexpensive and important risk assessment tool that allows clinicians to identify persons at increased risk for developing certain conditions. Up to 40% of genetic risk factors that would otherwise be missed can be detected with a family history. Features that suggest the presence of a genetically inherited condition include earlier age of onset than expected for a common disease; two or more relatives with the same disorder, especially if the disorder is uncommon or known to be caused by a single gene mutation; and the presence of a disease in the less-often-afflicted gender, such as breast cancer in a man. Obtaining a comprehensive family history in this patient will help determine her risk for developing Huntington disease, a neurodegenerative condition most commonly inherited in an autosomal-dominant pattern. Huntington disease has a very high penetrance, meaning that nearly all persons with a mutation in the huntingtin protein gene will ultimately develop the disease.
Although persons affected with Huntington disease have various abnormalities on MRI, including cortical atrophy and ventriculomegaly, obtaining MRI in this patient would not be helpful given the absence of symptoms and neurologic deficits on physical examination.
Genetic testing should be reserved for patients at increased risk for developing a disease who have received appropriate genetic counseling. Genetic testing raises many ethical questions, as the results affect not only the patient but also other members of the family. Testing can also lead to possible discrimination. The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 protects against genetic discrimination in regard to both health insurance and employment but does not protect against discrimination involving disability, life, or long-term care insurance.
Genetic counseling is indicated in all patients for whom genetic testing is being considered. The basic components of genetic counseling are education on the condition being tested, including the natural history, possible treatments, and preventive measures; the risks and benefits of genetic testing; alternatives to testing, including the option to forgo testing; and the implications for the patient and family members. A referral for genetic counseling would be indicated if this patient's family history is positive for family members with Huntington disease. Genetic counseling for this disease is unnecessary in the absence of an affected family member.

**Bibliography**

Pyeritz RE. The family history: the first genetic test, and still useful after all those years? Genet Med. 2012;14:3-9. PMID: 22237427 doi:10.1038/gim.0b013e3182310bcf

This content was last updated in August 2018.