
### Correct Answer: C) Levonorgestrel-containing intrauterine device 

**Educational Objective:** Treat abnormal uterine bleeding with a levonorgestrel-containing intrauterine device.

#### **Key Point:** For women with anovulatory abnormal uterine bleeding and contraindications to combination oral contraceptive use, a progestin-containing intrauterine device will likely reduce blood loss and maintain the stability of the endometrium, thereby reducing the risk for uterine cancer.

The most appropriate management of abnormal uterine bleeding in this patient is a levonorgestrel-containing intrauterine device (IUD). Abnormal uterine bleeding can generally be categorized into ovulatory and anovulatory patterns. Ovulatory abnormal uterine bleeding (menorrhagia) occurs at normal regular intervals but is excessive in volume or duration. Women with ovulatory bleeding have estrogen-mediated endometrial proliferation, produce progesterone, slough the endometrium regularly following progesterone withdrawal, and have a minimal risk for uterine cancer. Anovulatory cycles are characterized by unpredictable bleeding of variable flow and duration caused by the absence of normal cyclic hormonal flux. Without cyclic progesterone, the estrogen-mediated endometrium proliferates excessively, resulting in endometrial instability, erratic bleeding, and an increased risk for uterine cancer. For this perimenopausal patient who is anemic secondary to excessive menstrual blood loss and has contraindications to combination oral contraceptive use (previous deep venous thrombosis and current smoking), using a progestin-containing IUD would likely result in amenorrhea and prevent future blood loss. Managing anovulatory cycles involves the use of progestin to maintain endometrial stability to reduce the risk for endometrial cancer, which a levonorgestrel-containing IUD would do.
An estrogen-progestin oral contraceptive protects against unplanned pregnancy and regulates the menstrual cycle to prevent bleeding between cycles. However, this patient has contraindications to combination hormone therapy, leaving a progestin-containing IUD as the most appropriate choice.
Endometrial ablation or hysterectomy may be considered for patients who do not respond to medical treatment or in whom anatomic causes are identified as the cause of the bleeding. These interventions are not indicated for this patient at this time.
Treatment of anovulatory bleeding is directed toward restoring hormonal balance and stabilizing the endometrium. A progestin such as medroxyprogesterone acetate may be used to promote withdrawal bleeding for women who wish to become pregnant. However, this patient has not expressed a desire to become pregnant, and such treatment is unlikely to prevent future abnormal bleeding in a patient with continued anovulatory cycles.

**Bibliography**

Bacon JL. Abnormal uterine bleeding: current classification and clinical management. Obstet Gynecol Clin North Am. 2017;44:179-193. PMID: 28499529 doi:10.1016/j.ogc.2017.02.012

This content was last updated in August 2018.