
### Correct Answer: D) Sertraline 

**Educational Objective:** Treat persistent postural-perceptual dizziness.

#### **Key Point:** The treatments of choice for persistent postural-perceptual dizziness are vestibular and balance rehabilitation therapy and medical therapy with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors or serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors.

The most appropriate treatment in addition to vestibular and balance rehabilitation therapy (VBRT) is sertraline. Dizziness that remains nonspecific despite a thorough history, examination, and evaluation is referred to as persistent postural-perceptual dizziness (PPPD; formerly known as chronic subjective dizziness). PPPD is described as persistent, nonvertiginous dizziness or imbalance that worsens with personal motion, upright positioning, and movement of objects in the surrounding environment. Symptoms must be present on most days for at least 3 months. PPPD is most often preceded by another vestibular process (benign paroxysmal positional vertigo, vestibular neuronitis, vestibular migraine, stroke), trauma (concussion, traumatic brain injury), infection, or certain psychiatric conditions (anxiety, panic disorder, major depression). Approximately 75% of patients with PPPD have concomitant anxiety or depressive symptoms. The treatments of choice are VBRT and medical therapy, including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). VBRT focuses on balance training, core stabilization, and desensitization exercises; it is often performed by physical and occupational therapists. SSRIs and SNRIs take 8 to 12 weeks to produce a clinical response; if effective, treatment for at least 1 year is recommended. A positive response to these medications does not depend on the presence of psychiatric symptoms. In this patient with a history of concussion, a cause of dizziness has not been identified after thorough evaluation, and he should be treated with VBRT and an SSRI (such as sertraline) or SNRI.
Treatment response with other classes of antidepressants has been disappointing, and amitriptyline has not been found to be effective in the treatment of PPPD.
The canalith repositioning maneuver (Epley maneuver) is used to treat benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV). Patients with BPPV have brief episodes of vertigo (10-30 seconds) precipitated by abrupt head movement. This patient's symptoms are not compatible with BPPV, and the canalith repositioning maneuver is not indicated.
Lorazepam and other benzodiazepines have been used in the treatment of acute vertigo. This patient does not have vertigo, which is characterized by a spinning, swaying, or tilting sensation that is often accompanied by nausea and vomiting. In addition, long-term treatment with lorazepam can lead to dependence and may suppress vestibular feedback and central compensation mechanisms, resulting in worsening of PPPD symptoms.

**Bibliography**

Popkirov S, Staab JP, Stone J. Persistent postural-perceptual dizziness (PPPD): a common, characteristic and treatable cause of chronic dizziness. Pract Neurol. 2018;18:5-13. PMID: 29208729 doi: 10.1136/practneurol-2017-001809

This content was last updated in August 2018.