
### Correct Answer: A) Lead-time bias 

**Educational Objective:** Recognize the types of bias that affect screening tests.

#### **Key Point:** Lead-time bias occurs when early detection of a disease with a screening test leads to an increase in measured survival but not overall survival time.

Lead-time bias is most likely to threaten the validity of the authors' conclusions. Lead-time bias occurs when survival time (time from diagnosis to death) appears to be lengthened because the screened patient is diagnosed earlier during the preclinical phase but does not live longer in actuality. To guard against this bias, disease-specific mortality rates rather than survival time should be used as an outcome derived from randomized clinical trials.
Screening is also more likely to detect indolent disease, which has a long latent period, than aggressive disease, which has a short latent period and is most often detected with onset of symptoms. This causes length-time bias, in which a screen-detected cohort will have overrepresentation of indolent disease, whereas a symptom-detected cohort will have overrepresentation of aggressive disease. Consequently, the screen-detected cohort falsely appears to have a better prognosis. Length-time bias is unlikely in studies of ovarian cancer because ovarian cancer is an aggressive disease with a poor survival rate. The cancer has spread beyond the ovary at the time of detection in 75% of patients. This may be the result of rapid progression from unifocal disease to diffuse disease or to multiple foci of cancer within the abdomen, as carcinomatosis has been shown to develop after the removal of normal ovaries in high-risk patients.
Recall bias occurs when patients with a disease of interest are more likely to recall past exposures compared with controls. Recall bias primarily affects observational retrospective study designs. In this case, the screening protocol was a prospective observation study, and those being screened are not being asked to recall exposures; therefore, recall bias would not affect the study authors' conclusions.
Selection bias occurs when the study participants do not accurately reflect the population being studied, usually because the choice to participate is influenced by the clinical question. A national study of randomly selected women with a high participation rate would not be expected to be influenced by selection bias.

**Bibliography**

Berry DA. Failure of researchers, reviewers, editors, and the media to understand flaws in cancer screening studies: application to an article in Cancer. Cancer. 2014;120:2784-91. PMID: 24925345 doi: 10.1002/cncr.28795

This content was last updated in August 2018.