
### Correct Answer: D) Naltrexone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with alcohol use disorder with naltrexone.

#### **Key Point:** Naltrexone, which is available in both oral and long-acting injectable forms, is associated with a substantial decrease in 30-day readmission and emergency department visits when prescribed to patients with alcohol dependence at the time of hospital discharge.

The most appropriate treatment is naltrexone. Recent developments in the pharmacologic treatment of alcohol use disorder focus on modifying the reinforcing effects of alcohol use. Physicians underprescribe medications to treat alcohol use disorder and prevent relapse, despite their demonstrated efficacy. This patient, with hypertension and stage 3 chronic kidney disease, would likely benefit most from naltrexone. Available in both oral and long-acting injectable forms, naltrexone has been associated with a substantial decrease in 30-day readmission and emergency department visits when prescribed to patients with alcohol dependence at the time of hospital discharge. Multiple systematic reviews and meta-analyses of clinical trials have found naltrexone to reduce alcohol consumption compared with placebo. Naltrexone carries a risk for hepatotoxicity, for which the patient should be monitored; however, hepatotoxicity is rare with the dosages used for alcohol use disorder. Because naltrexone is an opioid receptor antagonist, opioids are contraindicated while the patient is taking naltrexone. Caution should also be used in patients with depression, due to an increased risk for suicidal ideation.
Acamprosate is FDA approved for the maintenance of abstinence in alcohol use disorder. This medication likely works through the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor to modulate γ-aminobutyric acid and glutamate levels. The American Psychiatric Association Practice Guideline for the Pharmacological Treatment of Patients With Alcohol Use Disorder recommends that acamprosate not be used as first-line therapy in persons with mild to moderate kidney impairment, but if used, the dosage should be reduced. Acamprosate is contraindicated in cases of severe kidney disease (estimated glomerular filtration rate <30 mL/min/1.73 m2). Additionally, the thrice-daily dosage regimen can hinder adherence to acamprosate.
Although chlordiazepoxide can be used to treat alcohol withdrawal, it is not indicated for relapse prevention because of its addiction potential and ineffectiveness.
Disulfiram inhibits acetaldehyde dehydrogenase, causing buildup of aldehyde after alcohol consumption; the associated flushing, nausea, and vomiting act as a deterrent to further alcohol use. Unlike naltrexone and acamprosate, disulfiram does not directly diminish the motivation to drink, but it is an aversion therapy causing an unpleasant physiologic reaction when alcohol is consumed. Disulfiram is now considered second-line therapy.

**Bibliography**

Akbar M, Egli M, Cho YE, Song BJ, Noronha A. Medications for alcohol use disorders: an overview. Pharmacol Ther. 2017. PMID: 29191394 doi:10.1016/j.pharmthera.2017.11.007

This content was last updated in September 2019.