
### Correct Answer: C) Ask what he understands about his illnesses 

**Educational Objective:** Effectively elicit goals, preferences, and values in a patient with terminal illnesses.

#### **Key Point:** For seriously ill patients, understanding of their health and prognosis must be assessed before a conversation regarding care preferences and pathways can occur.

The most appropriate initial strategy to develop goals of care is to ask the patient what he understands about his illnesses. This patient has multisystem organ dysfunction, recurrent hospitalizations, and a poor prognosis. He is at high risk for readmission and dying within the next 12 months, and assessing his understanding of his current illnesses is the first step in starting a conversation about the patient's goals, preferences, and values, after which the clinical care team can make recommendations on how best to meet those goals.
Discussions regarding hospice should occur only after the clinician has assessed the patient's understanding of the prognosis and after the patient's goals, hopes, and worries have been established.
Asking questions regarding resuscitation preferences is often important during a hospitalization, but a meaningful conversation regarding resuscitation preferences must be grounded in a patient's prognostic awareness, as well as their hopes and worries.
The patient's prognosis must be shared before a conversation regarding care preferences can occur. Before sharing the prognosis, however, evaluating the patient's understanding of his illnesses will allow for appropriate and efficient information sharing.

**Bibliography**

Bernacki RE, Block SD; American College of Physicians High Value Care Task Force. Communication about serious illness care goals: a review and synthesis of best practices. JAMA Intern Med. 2014;174:1994-2003. PMID: 25330167 doi:10.1001/jamainternmed.2014.5271

This content was last updated in August 2018.