
### Correct Answer: A) Alanine aminotransferase level measurement 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate liver function before initiating statin therapy.

#### **Key Point:** In patients in whom statin therapy is being considered, an alanine aminotransferase level should be obtained at baseline to evaluate for liver dysfunction; further hepatic monitoring is unnecessary if the baseline level is normal.

The most appropriate diagnostic testing to perform before initiating high-intensity statin therapy in this patient is alanine aminotransferase level measurement. This patient with clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (defined as acute coronary syndrome, or a history of myocardial infarction, stable or unstable angina, coronary or other arterial revascularization, stroke/transient ischemic attack, or peripheral artery disease attributable to atherosclerosis) meets the criteria for high-intensity statin therapy for secondary prevention of cardiovascular events. In patients in whom statin therapy is being considered, an initial fasting lipid panel (including total cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL cholesterol, and calculated LDL cholesterol levels) is recommended. A lipid panel should also be obtained 4 to 12 weeks after initiation of therapy to determine treatment adherence and response. Statins are generally safe and well tolerated. They can cause asymptomatic, dose-related elevations in aminotransferases in approximately 1% of patients, but liver injury occurs in less than 0.001% of patients. The incidence of statin-associated muscle symptoms is no greater than 1%, and the incidence of myopathy and rhabdomyolysis is less than 0.1%. The American Heart Association Scientific Statement on Statin Safety and Associated Adverse Effects recommends obtaining liver chemistry tests before starting statin therapy. Liver chemistry tests and muscle enzyme studies should not be obtained during therapy in the absence of symptoms.
In patients who are at risk for adverse muscle events because of personal history of a muscle disease, current muscle symptoms, or concomitant drug therapy that might increase the risk for myopathy, it is reasonable to obtain a creatine kinase level before beginning statin therapy. Routine baseline measurement of creatine kinase, however, is not recommended.
During statin therapy, routine measurement of liver aminotransferases and creatine kinase is not recommended. However, if the patient develops symptoms of hepatotoxicity (such as jaundice, fatigue, weight loss, or abdominal pain), liver aminotransferases should be measured. Likewise, if a patient develops muscle symptoms (such as pain, weakness, generalized fatigue, or tenderness), creatine kinase level measurement is indicated.

**Bibliography**

Newman CB, Preiss D, Tobert JA, Jacobson TA, Page RL 2nd, Goldstein LB, et al; American Heart Association Clinical Lipidology, Lipoprotein, Metabolism and Thrombosis Committee, a Joint Committee of the Council on Atherosclerosis, Thrombosis and Vascular Biology and Council on Lifestyle and Cardiometabolic Health; Council on Cardiovascular Disease in the Young; Council on Clinical Cardiology; and Stroke Council. Statin safety and associated adverse events: a scientific statement from the American Heart Association. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2019;39:e38-e81. PMID: 30580575 doi:10.1161/ATV.0000000000000073

This content was last updated in May 2019.