
### Correct Answer: A) Bipolar disorder 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose bipolar disorder.

#### **Key Point:** More than half of patients with bipolar disorder initially present with a depressive episode; however, recognition of previous manic or hypomanic episodes is crucial because the treatment of bipolar disorder requires mood stabilizers, either alone or in combination with antidepressants.

The most likely diagnosis is bipolar disorder. This patient exhibits multiple symptoms of depression (anhedonia, sleep disturbance, feelings of worthlessness, suicidal ideation), but he also has a history of at least one previous manic episode, manifested by increased energy, decreased need for sleep, grandiose thinking, and risky behavior. This patient's clinical picture of depression and one or more episodes of mania is most consistent with a diagnosis of bipolar disorder. In patients with bipolar disorder, dysfunction is often extreme, and the associated lifetime risk for suicide is high (6%-15%). Referral to a psychiatrist should be strongly considered when resources are available.
Generalized anxiety disorder is characterized by excessive anxiety about activities or events occurring more days than not for at least 6 months and causing significant distress or functional impairment. Patients with this disorder often experience fatigue and sleep disturbance but do not have a history of mania or meet diagnostic criteria for a major depressive disorder.
More than half of patients with bipolar disorder initially present with a depressive episode. However, presence of manic episodes in this patient excludes major depressive disorder as the diagnosis. Recognition of previous manic or hypomanic episodes is crucial because the treatment of depression in bipolar disorder requires mood stabilizers (such as carbamazepine, lithium, or valproic acid), either alone or in combination with antidepressants. Treatment with antidepressants alone may increase the risk for mania and hypomania.
Patients with schizophrenia have negative symptoms, such as flattened affect and decreased activity, in combination with positive symptoms, including hallucinations and disorganized thought. This patient has no positive symptoms.

**Bibliography**

Frye MA. Clinical practice. Bipolar disorder—a focus on depression. N Engl J Med. 2011;364:51-9. PMID: 21208108 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp1000402

This content was last updated in August 2018.