
### Correct Answer: D) Schizophrenia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose schizophrenia.

#### **Key Point:** Schizophrenia is a heterogeneous disorder characterized by at least two of the following symptoms: delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, disorganized or catatonic behavior, and negative symptoms; the typical age of onset is early adulthood.

This patient's clinical presentation is most consistent with schizophrenia. This heterogeneous disorder is characterized by a combination of positive symptoms (delusions, disorganized thought, hallucinations) and negative symptoms (decreased activity, flattened affect). Typical age of onset is early adulthood. Diagnosis also requires at least one area of functional impairment (occupation, social interactions, or self-care) and duration of at least 6 months (including 1 month of active symptoms).
Bipolar disorder is characterized by major depressive episodes and periods of mania or hypomania. During manic episodes, patients experience increased energy and risk-taking behaviors, as well as inflated self-worth. Patients with major depressive disorder have depressed mood and/or anhedonia, plus other symptoms of depression, including difficulty concentrating, fatigue, feelings of worthlessness, psychomotor agitation or retardation, sleep disturbance, thoughts of suicide, and weight or appetite changes. Although patients may have major depressive disorder or bipolar disorder with psychotic features, this patient does not meet the criteria for either depression (depressed mode and/or anhedonia) or mania (abnormally expansive, euphoric, or irritable mood).
In paranoid personality disorder, patients are distrustful of others, including loved ones, and misperceive social interactions as personal attacks. However, disorganized thoughts, hallucinations, and negative symptoms are not present in patients with paranoid personality disorder.

**Bibliography**

Owen MJ, Sawa A, Mortensen PB. Schizophrenia. Lancet. 2016;388:86-97. PMID: 26777917 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(15)01121-6

This content was last updated in August 2018.