
### Correct Answer: D) Saline microscopy for clue cells 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose bacterial vaginosis.

#### **Key Point:** Clinical diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis requires three of the following four features: vaginal pH greater than 4.5, thin and homogenous vaginal discharge, positive whiff test result, and clue cells comprising at least 20% of all squamous cells on saline microscopy; culture is not a reasonable test to confirm the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis and would also be costly and inefficient compared with an office-based diagnosis.

Bacterial vaginosis can be diagnosed in this patient with detection of at least 20% clue cells on saline microscopy. Bacterial vaginosis is the most common cause of vaginal discharge and results from an imbalance in the normal vaginal bacterial flora—loss of the normal hydrogen-producing lactobacilli in the vagina and subsequent overgrowth of Gardnerella vaginalis, Mycoplasma species, and other anaerobes. Clinical diagnosis is made when three of the following features are present: vaginal pH greater than 4.5, thin and homogenous vaginal discharge, positive result on a whiff test (application of 10% potassium hydroxide to vaginal secretions resulting in a fishy odor), and clue cells comprising at least 20% of all squamous cells on saline microscopy. Clue cells are vaginal epithelial cells with ill-defined cell borders on microscopy as a result of adherent coccobacilli. The patient has vaginal pH greater than 4.5 and a homogenous thin discharge but a negative whiff test result. A saline wet mount that demonstrates at least 20% clue cells on microscopy will establish the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis. Treatment is metronidazole or clindamycin.
Because bacterial vaginosis represents changes in the vaginal flora, vaginal culture has no role in diagnosis. Although cultures for G. vaginalis will be positive in almost all women with bacterial vaginosis, cultures lack specificity—the organism is found in over 50% of healthy asymptomatic women. Therefore, culture is not a reasonable test to confirm the diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis and would also be costly and inefficient compared with an office-based diagnosis.
The nucleic acid amplification test (NAAT) is a highly sensitive test for diagnosis of trichomoniasis and other sexually transmitted infections, such as chlamydia and gonorrhea. Although NAAT can detect G. vaginalis, it is time consuming, expensive, and unnecessary, and simple office-based diagnosis is preferred in straightforward cases such as this one. When office microscopy is not available, NAAT is a reasonable test to perform.
Vulvovaginal candidiasis is typically characterized by vaginal itching, irritation, and discharge and may be associated with dysuria and dyspareunia. Examination reveals vulvar edema and excoriation, with thick, white, curdy vaginal discharge. The diagnosis can be made when a saline or 10% potassium hydroxide wet mount of vaginal discharge shows yeast, hyphae, or pseudohyphae. This patient's clinical presentation is not consistent with vaginal candidiasis; a 10% potassium hydroxide wet mount is unnecessary and will not establish the most likely diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Mills BB. Vaginitis: beyond the basics. Obstet Gynecol Clin North Am. 2017;44:159-177. PMID: 28499528 doi:10.1016/j.ogc.2017.02.010

This content was last updated in August 2018.