
### Correct Answer: C) Tadalafil 

**Educational Objective:** Treat benign prostatic hyperplasia and erectile dysfunction with tadalafil.

#### **Key Point:** For patients with concomitant benign prostatic hyperplasia and erectile dysfunction, a trial of tadalafil (a phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor) has been shown to be effective and is the only FDA-approved option to treat both conditions.

The most appropriate treatment for this patient with benign prostatic hyperplasia and erectile dysfunction is tadalafil. This patient has lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) due to benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), with both obstructive symptoms (decreased stream, incomplete emptying, hesitancy) and irritative symptoms (nocturia, frequency, urgency). Diagnosing BPH can be challenging because of the many causes of LUTS; furthermore, there is poor correlation between prostate size on examination and urinary symptoms. Nonetheless, a careful history and examination can usually render the diagnosis. Men older than 50 years are likely to have BPH as a cause of LUTS, whereas men younger than 40 years are likely to have other causes of LUTS. Furthermore, the patient has a history of untreated erectile dysfunction; in cases of BPH and erectile dysfunction, a trial of tadalafil, a phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor, is recommended. In this setting, tadalafil has been shown to be clinically and symptomatically effective and is the only FDA-approved option to treat the symptoms of both conditions.
Finasteride and other 5α-reductase inhibitors are considered second-line medical therapy for BPH. The American Urological Association recommends the addition of 5α-reductase inhibitors in cases of BPH refractory to α-blocker monotherapy, not as a first-line monotherapy choice. Furthermore, this medication class has been known to lead to erectile and ejaculatory dysfunction.
Oxybutynin and other anticholinergic agents are effective in treating irritative LUTS of BPH. However, given their mechanism of action, anticholinergic agents can lead to worsening obstructive symptoms and could also lead to worsening erectile dysfunction.
Tamsulosin and other α-blocking agents are first-line medical therapy for symptomatic BPH. However, α-blockers have numerous side effects, including hypotension, orthostasis, and sexual dysfunction. Tamsulosin could worsen this patient's erectile dysfunction and thus would not be the most appropriate treatment choice.

**Bibliography**

Albisinni S, Biaou I, Marcelis Q, Aoun F, De Nunzio C, Roumeguère T. New medical treatments for lower urinary tract symptoms due to benign prostatic hyperplasia and future perspectives. BMC Urol. 2016;16:58. PMID: 27629059 doi:10.1186/s12894-016-0176-0

This content was last updated in August 2018.