
### Correct Answer: D) Continue all medications 

**Educational Objective:** Manage long-term medications in the perioperative setting.

#### **Key Point:** In patients undergoing noncardiac surgery, β-blockers and statins should be continued in those who have been taking the drugs long term, and aspirin generally should be continued in patients with coronary stents unless the bleeding risk is prohibitively high.

This patient should continue all medications the morning of surgery. In general, many medications are well tolerated throughout the perioperative period. The 2014 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guideline on perioperative cardiovascular evaluation and management of patients undergoing noncardiac surgery includes recommendations for the management of statins, β-blockers, and antiplatelet agents.
Statins should be continued in patients who have been taking statins long term. In patients undergoing vascular surgery, initiation of statins is reasonable, and perioperative statin initiation can also be considered in patients who would otherwise qualify for statin therapy based on current guideline–directed medical therapy.
Likewise, β-blockers should be continued in patients who have been taking β-blockers long term, especially those with coronary artery disease. Preoperative initiation of β-blockers may be indicated for some patients undergoing nonurgent surgery, including those with intermediate- or high-risk myocardial ischemia on preoperative stress testing, those with three or more Revised Cardiac Risk Index risk factors (diabetes mellitus, heart failure, coronary artery disease, chronic kidney disease, cerebrovascular disease), or those who otherwise have a compelling indication for β-blockade. However, β-blockers should never be started on the day of surgery, but rather with enough time preoperatively to assess safety and tolerability.
There are very few data available regarding the benefits versus risks of continuing calcium channel blockers such as amlodipine. There are no known interactions with anesthetic agents, and continuing calcium channel blockers is not associated with hemodynamic instability. Most experts, in the absence of data, recommend continuing this class of medication for patients already taking them.
In general, patients with coronary stents should be continued on aspirin throughout the perioperative period unless the bleeding risk is prohibitively high, as is the case with many neurosurgical procedures. It is important to discuss perioperative management of aspirin and P2Y12 inhibitors with the surgical team to reach a consensus recommendation.

**Bibliography**

Fleisher LA, Fleischmann KE, Auerbach AD, Barnason SA, Beckman JA, Bozkurt B, et al; American College of Cardiology. 2014 ACC/AHA guideline on perioperative cardiovascular evaluation and management of patients undergoing noncardiac surgery: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2014;64:e77-137. PMID: 25091544

This content was last updated in August 2018.