
### Correct Answer: B) Oral medical cannabis oil 

**Educational Objective:** Treat chronic noncancer pain with medical cannabis.

#### **Key Point:** Medical cannabis has demonstrated some efficacy in the treatment of chronic noncancer pain.

A trial of oral medical cannabis oil would be a reasonable treatment in the management of this patient's chronic pain. Medical cannabis, although classified as a scheduled agent by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration on a federal level, has been approved by many states as a treatment for chronic pain. Current data on the effectiveness of medical cannabis for chronic pain are characterized by significant heterogeneity in both patient populations and cannabis preparations, although recent systematic reviews have demonstrated that cannabis has some efficacy in the treatment of chronic noncancer pain. Only two cannabinoid drugs (dronabinol and nabilone) are licensed for sale in the United States, and both drugs are available only in oral form. The pharmacokinetics of oral cannabis differ greatly from those of smoked cannabis, which has varying implications. Oral cannabis is slow in onset of action but produces more pronounced, and often unfavorable, psychoactive effects that last much longer than those experienced with smoking. On the other hand, smoked cannabis is quickly absorbed into the blood, and effects are immediate. However, examining the effects of smoked marijuana can be difficult because the absorption and efficacy of cannabis on symptom relief depend on subject familiarity with smoking and inhaling. This patient with end-stage kidney disease has a complex chronic pain syndrome that is unresponsive to multiple trials of nonpharmacologic and nonopioid analgesic therapies. If she resides in a state in which medical cannabis is available, oral medical cannabis oil would be a reasonable treatment option.
Oral immediate-release morphine sulfate should be avoided in this patient with end-stage kidney disease who is receiving dialysis because it could cause opioid-induced neurotoxicity with repeated use.
Oral methadone is a potent opioid agonist and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. Its complex pharmacokinetics and variable half-life restrict its general use, and it should not be prescribed by clinicians who lack experience in its management.
Topical lidocaine does not penetrate into the deep myofascial tissues and would not be an effective agent for this patient with pelvic pain.

**Bibliography**

Whiting PF, Wolff RF, Deshpande S, Di Nisio M, Duffy S, Hernandez AV, et al. Cannabinoids for medical use: a systematic review and meta-analysis. JAMA. 2015;313:2456-73. PMID: 26103030 doi: 10.1001/jama.2015.6358

This content was last updated in August 2018.