
### Correct Answer: D) No female sexual disorder 

**Educational Objective:** Exclude a diagnosis of a female sexual disorder in a postmenopausal woman.

#### **Key Point:** The diagnosis of a female sexual disorder requires both significant distress and the persistence of symptoms not explained by a nonsexual mental disorder.

This patient does not currently meet the diagnostic criteria for any sexual disorder. Female sexual dysfunction describes sexual difficulties that are persistent, personally distressing to the patient, and not explained by a nonsexual mental disorder. The patient reports that she is only occasionally distressed by these symptoms. Intervention may still be appropriate for patients reporting significant distress, such as sexual health education and/or referral to a sex therapist.
Female orgasmic disorder is the persistent or recurrent absence, delay, or diminished intensity of orgasm following a normal excitement phase with at least 75% of sexual encounters. The patient does not describe symptoms compatible with this disorder.
Genitopelvic pain/penetration disorder is diagnosed when there is persistent or recurrent difficulty in vaginal penetration during intercourse, marked vulvovaginal or pelvic pain during penetration, fear of pain or anxiety about pain in anticipation of or during penetration, or tightening or tensing of pelvic floor muscles during attempted penetration. For this diagnosis, symptoms must occur more than 75% of the time for at least 6 months and cause clinically significant distress. These symptoms are not present in this patient.
Female sexual interest/arousal disorder includes hypoactive sexual desire or arousal dysfunction that is present for a minimum of 6 months and causes significant distress. It is diagnosed if the patient reports at least three of the following symptoms: lack of sexual interest, lack of sexual thoughts or fantasies, decreased initiation of sexual activity or decreased responsiveness to the partner's initiation attempts, reduced excitement or pleasure during sexual activity, reduced response to sexual cues, or decreased genital or nongenital sensations during sexual activity. This patient reports only occasional distress that has been present for 3 months.

**Bibliography**

Faubion SS, Rullo JE. Sexual dysfunction in women: a practical approach. Am Fam Physician. 2015;92:281-8. PMID: 26280233

This content was last updated in August 2018.