
### Correct Answer: B) MRI of the brain 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with suspected central vertigo with MRI.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with findings concerning for centrally mediated vertigo or patients with acute sustained vertigo and risk factors for vertebrobasilar stroke, urgent evaluation with MRI and posterior circulation magnetic resonance angiography are strongly recommended.

The most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next in this patient with risk factors for stroke is MRI of the brain. Patients with central vertigo secondary to vertebrobasilar stroke (posterior circulation ischemic or hemorrhagic events) frequently display concomitant neurologic findings in addition to vertigo. However, roughly 20% of patients with vertebrobasilar stroke present with isolated vertigo, and studies have shown that up to one third of cases of vertebrobasilar stroke that manifest as isolated vertigo are misclassified as peripheral vertigo, leading to considerable morbidity and mortality. In patients with findings concerning for centrally mediated vertigo (nystagmus, dysphagia, dysarthria, diplopia, ataxia, postural instability, hemiparesis, or mental status changes), or in patients with acute sustained vertigo and risk factors for vertebrobasilar stroke (advanced age, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus, peripheral vascular disease, atrial fibrillation), urgent evaluation with MRI is strongly recommended. MRI can detect infarction in the posterior fossa on the first day and is typically performed with magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). MRA is both sensitive and specific in the identification of stenosis or occlusion of the posterior cerebral circulation.
CT can provide an effective and expedited evaluation of hemorrhagic stroke, although hemorrhagic vertebrobasilar stroke accounts for a very small minority of cases of centrally mediated vertigo. MRI is far more sensitive for the early detection of ischemic stroke in these patients.
Vestibular laboratory testing using electronystagmography and videonystagmography can be helpful in distinguishing between peripheral and central vertigo. Electronystagmography and videonystagmography use electrodes and video cameras, respectively, to record eye movements. These techniques record and quantify both spontaneous and induced nystagmus. Vestibular laboratory testing should not take precedence over urgent brain imaging for a potentially life-threatening condition, such as a cerebellar stroke.
Imaging studies are generally unnecessary in the diagnosis of peripheral vertigo. However, because this patient is at high risk for posterior circulation stroke (cardiovascular disease risk factors; acute, sustained vertigo; gait ataxia), further evaluation is urgently required.

**Bibliography**

Venhovens J, Meulstee J, Verhagen WI. Acute vestibular syndrome: a critical review and diagnostic algorithm concerning the clinical differentiation of peripheral versus central aetiologies in the emergency department. J Neurol. 2016;263:2151-2157. PMID: 26984607

This content was last updated in August 2018.