
### Correct Answer: B) Behavioral therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with obesity with comprehensive behavioral therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Weight loss is best achieved with a high-intensity behavioral therapy program (≥14 sessions of ≥6 months' duration) delivered by a trained interventionist and including regular self-monitoring of weight and calorie intake.

The initial recommendation to achieve weight loss is lifestyle modification, which includes reducing calorie intake by at least 500 kcal/day, physical activity exceeding 150 minutes weekly, and comprehensive behavioral therapy. High-intensity behavioral therapy programs (≥14 sessions of at least 6 months' duration) delivered by a trained interventionist and including regular self-monitoring of weight and calorie intake are associated with successful weight loss. Although face-to-face interventions most reliably result in weight loss, success has also been demonstrated with phone- or electronic-based interventions. Comprehensive programs lasting 1 year or longer and with at least monthly contact are associated with more successful maintenance of lifestyle change, and they are usually a reimbursable service.
Bariatric surgery for obesity is reserved for when a trial of comprehensive lifestyle intervention does not succeed. Additionally, surgical therapy is recommended only for patients with a BMI of 40 or greater, or with a BMI of 35 or greater and obesity-related comorbid conditions; this patient does not meet these criteria.
This patient is already exercising at the recommended level of at least 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous physical activity per week. Although increasing her physical activity may reduce the caloric restriction required to achieve weight loss, the impact of exercise is thought to be less important in initial weight loss than that of calorie restriction.
This patient admits that she has difficulty adhering to a diet plan; there is no reason to suspect that her adherence to a different plan (whether low-carbohydrate, Mediterranean, or another diet) would improve without the behavioral intervention components of regular calorie tracking and weight monitoring.
Combination low-dose phentermine (a sympathomimetic drug) and low-dose topiramate (an antiepileptic drug) has demonstrated efficacy in reducing weight, possibly by suppressing appetite, altering taste, and increasing metabolism. As with bariatric surgery, pharmacologic therapy is recommended only if a trial of lifestyle intervention is not successful. This patient has not yet truly engaged in a program of behavioral intervention.

**Bibliography**

Jensen MD, Ryan DH, Apovian CM, Ard JD, Comuzzie AG, Donato KA, et al; American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2013 AHA/ACC/TOS guideline for the management of overweight and obesity in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines and The Obesity Society. Circulation. 2014;129:S102-38. PMID: 24222017 doi:10.1161/01.cir.0000437739.71477.ee

This content was last updated in August 2018.