
### Correct Answer: A) Bariatric surgery 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with obesity with bariatric surgery.

#### **Key Point:** Bariatric surgery should be considered in patients who do not lose weight with lifestyle modifications and have a BMI of 40 or greater, or a BMI of 35 or greater with obesity-related comorbid conditions, such as type 2 diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, obstructive sleep apnea, or osteoarthritis.

This patient with obesity-related comorbid conditions and no weight loss success after a trial of comprehensive lifestyle modifications meets the criteria for referral for bariatric surgery. Bariatric surgery should be considered for patients who do not lose weight with lifestyle modifications, with or without pharmacologic therapy, and have a BMI of 40 or greater or a BMI of 35 or greater with obesity-related comorbid conditions, such as type 2 diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, obstructive sleep apnea, or osteoarthritis. Studies comparing bariatric surgery with nonsurgical treatment (diet, exercise, behavioral modification, and medications) have shown that participants randomly assigned to bariatric surgery lost more weight and were more likely to experience remission of type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome, improved quality of life, and reduced medication use. Evidence suggests that bariatric surgery is also associated with reduced mortality and improvement of obstructive sleep apnea, osteoarthritis, and other conditions.
In 2020, lorcaserin, which was used as adjunctive therapy to comprehensive lifestyle modification in the treatment of overweight and obesity, was withdrawn from the market for safety reasons.
Behavioral therapy for obesity may include the use of a trained interventionist, such as a nutritionist or dietician. This patient is already participating in a comprehensive behavioral therapy plan that includes nutritional counseling; a separate referral to a dietician is unnecessary. Behavioral therapy is also less likely than bariatric surgery to be successful in this patient.
Very-low-calorie diets are recommended when rapid weight loss is medically indicated. Their use requires close medical supervision with frequent office visits and laboratory monitoring. In this patient, there is no indication for rapid weight loss that would warrant the use of a very-low-calorie diet.

**Bibliography**

Jensen MD, Ryan DH, Apovian CM, Ard JD, Comuzzie AG, Donato KA, et al; American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2013 AHA/ACC/TOS guideline for the management of overweight and obesity in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines and The Obesity Society. Circulation. 2014;129:S102-38. PMID: 24222017 doi:10.1161/01.cir.0000437739.71477.ee

This content was last updated in March 2021.