
### Correct Answer: C) Patient's previously expressed wishes 

**Educational Objective:** Manage surrogate decision making in a patient without an advance directive.

#### **Key Point:** When decisions are made on behalf of a patient who lacks decision-making capacity, they should be based on previously expressed oral or written statements of preferences or values, also known as substituted judgment.

The most appropriate basis for the decision regarding the patient's management is the patient's previously expressed wishes, otherwise known as substituted judgment. The strongest evidence of a patient's preferences derives from a living will, in which a patient can outline specific preferences for treatment decisions (for example, use of dialysis or mechanical ventilation). A patient could also formally designate a health care proxy through a durable power of attorney. Unfortunately, few patients have completed an advance directive, and when one is not available, it is important to be familiar with the local state laws regarding surrogate decision making. Many states have a health consent statute that designates the order in which family members are selected to provide surrogate decisions. The patient's spouse usually takes precedence over parents or adult children.
Decisions based on the patient's best interests should be reserved for situations in which there are no previously expressed oral or written statements of preferences or values from the patient. Family members and physicians may have divergent opinions of what is in the patient's best interests, which may not correlate with what the patient would want for himself.
Although this patient's medical condition is a crucial consideration, proper management of complex cases such as this one depend upon knowledge of the values and ethical principles at play. These decisions should be made in accord with local legal standards; risk management should not be the driving factor. Practicing according to ethical standards of care should reduce legal risk.

**Bibliography**

Snyder L; American College of Physicians Ethics, Professionalism, and Human Rights Committee. American College of Physicians ethics manual: sixth edition. Ann Intern Med. 2012;156:73-104. PMID: 22213573 doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-156-1-201201031-00001

This content was last updated in August 2018.