
### Correct Answer: B) Methylnaltrexone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat opioid-induced constipation in a patient with serious illness.

#### **Key Point:** If maximal medical therapy has failed to achieve laxation in patients taking opioids, peripheral opioid antagonists, such as methylnaltrexone, can be considered; methylnaltrexone does not reverse the analgesic or antidyspneic effects of systemically administered opioids.

The most appropriate treatment of this patient's constipation is methylnaltrexone. This patient presents with significant constipation refractory to enema therapy, osmotic laxatives (lactulose), and stimulants (bisacodyl, senna). There are several causes of this patient's constipation, but special attention must be paid to his opioid use for dyspnea palliation. In patients with laxative-refractory opioid-induced constipation, the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) Institute recommends two peripherally acting µ-opioid receptor antagonists, oral naldemedine or subcutaneous methylnaltrexone, and naloxegol, a pegylated form of naloxone. By reversing μ-opioid receptor activation in the gut, methylnaltrexone can cause laxation in less than 60 minutes and does not reverse analgesic or antidyspneic effects of systemically administered opioids. It is contraindicated in patients with bowel obstruction.
When constipation symptoms do not respond to osmotic and stimulant laxative therapy, the chloride channel activator lubiprostone can be considered. Lubiprostone is FDA approved for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation; however, the AGA Institute concluded there was insufficient evidence to recommend lubiprostone. Regardless, lubiprostone can cause shortness of breath and is likely a poor choice for a patient taking opioids to palliate dyspnea.
Polyethylene glycol is an osmotic laxative that increases the water content of stools to improve bowel motility. This patient is already taking an osmotic laxative (lactulose), and the addition of polyethylene glycol is unlikely to have any effect in the setting of opioid-induced bowel dysmotility refractory to stimulants and enema therapy.
Sodium phosphate enemas are contraindicated in older adult patients and in patients with kidney failure or heart failure because of the risks for dangerous electrolyte shifts and renal toxicity.

**Bibliography**

Streicher JM, Bilsky EJ. Peripherally acting µ-opioid receptor antagonists for the treatment of opioid-related side effects: mechanism of action and clinical implications. J Pharm Pract. 2017:897190017732263. PMID: 28946783

This content was last updated in May 2019.