
### Correct Answer: B) Autism spectrum disorder 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose autism spectrum disorder.

#### **Key Point:** Autism spectrum disorder is a heterogeneous group of disorders that share two diagnostic features: (1) repetitive, nonpurposeful behaviors and (2) deficiencies in communication and social interaction.

This patient demonstrates behaviors most consistent with autism spectrum disorder. This is a heterogeneous group of disorders that share two diagnostic features: (1) repetitive, nonpurposeful behaviors and (2) deficiencies in communication and social interaction. Although the disorder may not be diagnosed until adulthood, the abnormal behaviors begin in childhood. The exact prevalence is debated, but it is estimated to affect 0.5% to 1% of the U.S. population. Early intervention with behavioral and educational interventions improves long-term functioning, but most patients require lifelong assistance.
Antisocial personality disorder is characterized by lack of empathy for others and engaging in socially unacceptable activities (such as stealing or cheating) without remorse. Patients with this personality disorder do not engage in repetitive behaviors and do not have communication difficulties.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder is characterized by obsessions (persistent and intrusive thoughts, images, or impulses that are associated with distress) and compulsions (repetitive behaviors [such as counting, hand washing, and inspecting] that are performed to decrease anxiety caused by the obsession) that result in marked distress, wasted time, or impaired social function. Although patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder may engage in repetitive behaviors such as those exhibited by this patient, they do not have difficulties with communication or social interaction.
Social anxiety disorder is characterized by severe, persistent anxiety or fear of social or performance situations (public speaking, meeting unfamiliar people) lasting 6 months or longer. In these situations, affected patients experience anxiety and physical symptoms, such as palpitations, dyspnea, and flushing. Patients recognize their anxiety is excessive but nonetheless avoid trigger situations (or endure them with extreme anxiety), resulting in impairments at home, work, and other settings. This patient's repetitive behaviors and difficulty with social interactions are not consistent with social anxiety disorder.

**Bibliography**

Nicolaidis C, Kripke CC, Raymaker D. Primary care for adults on the autism spectrum. Med Clin North Am. 2014;98:1169-91. PMID: 25134878 doi:10.1016/j.mcna.2014.06.011

This content was last updated in August 2018.