
### Correct Answer: D) Therapeutic lifestyle changes 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hyperlipidemia in a patient at low risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.

#### **Key Point:** Therapeutic lifestyle changes, including dietary modification, regular physical activity, weight loss, and smoking cessation, are the initial treatment for hyperlipidemia.

This patient with hyperlipidemia and low risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) should be counseled regarding therapeutic lifestyle changes and followed to monitor progress. Key components of therapeutic lifestyle changes include dietary modification, regular physical activity, weight loss, smoking cessation (if applicable), and addressing risk factors associated with the metabolic syndrome. Patients should be encouraged to adhere to a dietary pattern that focuses on consumption of fruits, vegetables, fiber, and monounsaturated fats and minimizes intake of saturated and trans fats, simple carbohydrates, and red meats. Replacing saturated fats with polyunsaturated fats has been shown to reduce LDL cholesterol levels and cardiovascular mortality. Recommended diets include the American Heart Association (AHA) diet and the DASH (Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension) diet. The AHA/American College of Cardiology (ACC) lifestyle management guideline additionally recommends that patients engage in 40 minutes of moderate to vigorous activity 3 to 4 days per week to lower LDL and non-HDL cholesterol levels.
According to the 2018 AHA/ACC Guideline on the Management of Blood Cholesterol, groups for which a strong body of evidence supports statin initiation for the primary prevention of ASCVD are patients with an LDL cholesterol level of 190 mg/dL (4.92 mmol/L) or higher, patients aged 40 to 75 years with diabetes mellitus, and patients with a 10-year risk for ASCVD of 20% or higher. Other populations in whom statin therapy should be considered include patients with a 10-year risk for ASCVD of 7.5% to less than 20% accompanied by ASCVD risk-enhancing factors. In this patient with a 10-year risk for ASCVD of 3.4%, statin therapy would not be appropriate.
The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends low- to moderate-intensity statin therapy in asymptomatic adults aged 40 to 75 years without ASCVD who have at least one ASCVD risk factor (dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, or smoking) and a calculated 10-year ASCVD event risk of 10% or higher. In contrast, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and U.S. Department of Defense cholesterol guideline recommends primary prevention with moderate-intensity statin therapy for patients with a 10-year ASCVD risk of 12% or more, an LDL cholesterol level of 190 mg/dL (4.92 mmol/L) or higher, or diabetes. Although this patient has hyperlipidemia, his 10-year ASCVD event risk is 3.4%, and neither low- nor moderate-intensity statin therapy is indicated.

**Bibliography**

Eckel RH, Jakicic JM, Ard JD, de Jesus JM, Houston Miller N, Hubbard VS, et al; American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2013 AHA/ACC guideline on lifestyle management to reduce cardiovascular risk: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. Circulation. 2014;129:S76-99. PMID: 24222015 doi:10.1161/01.cir.0000437740.48606.d1

This content was last updated in March 2021.