
### Correct Answer: A) Ibuprofen 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with greater trochanteric pain syndrome (trochanteric bursitis).

#### **Key Point:** Patients with greater trochanteric pain syndrome (trochanteric bursitis) typically have pain localized to the greater trochanter, which may radiate down the lateral leg to the knee, and pain to palpation over the greater trochanter; treatment includes avoiding painful activities, acetaminophen or NSAIDs, and muscle strengthening.

This patient's clinical presentation is consistent with greater trochanteric pain syndrome (GTPS; formerly trochanteric bursitis), and first-line therapy is pain relief with acetaminophen or an oral NSAID, such as ibuprofen. Patients with GTPS typically have pain localized to the greater trochanter that may radiate down the lateral leg to the knee. The pain is often exacerbated by lying on the affected side and climbing stairs. Pain onset is usually insidious. GTPS can be differentiated from hip joint pain in that GTPS does not usually radiate to the groin or limit hip range of motion. Diagnosis is made by history and by eliciting pain with palpation over the greater trochanter or reproduction of the pain when the patient takes a step up. Use of pain-relieving agents should accompany activity modification, such as avoiding or minimizing painful activities. Physical therapy to strengthen the muscles of the hip may help with reducing friction and therefore pain.
Glucocorticoid injections (frequently combined with a local anesthetic) are reserved for patients with GTPS with persistent symptoms and for those who do not respond to acetaminophen or an oral NSAID. Because this patient has not yet received any therapy, it would be most appropriate to start with an oral agent such as ibuprofen instead of progressing directly to glucocorticoid injection.
Most patients respond to acetaminophen, NSAIDs, or glucocorticoid injections. Opioid pain medications are typically unnecessary, have a significant risk profile, and do not have a role in the management of GTPS. Therefore, hydrocodone/acetaminophen would not be an appropriate management option.
GTPS is diagnosed clinically based on a consistent clinical presentation. Plain radiographs are typically normal in patients suspected of having GTPS. The role of imaging studies is to evaluate for alternative diagnoses when the diagnosis of GTPS is unclear. In this patient, plain radiography is unnecessary.

**Bibliography**

Redmond JM, Chen AW, Domb BG. Greater trochanteric pain syndrome. J Am Acad Orthop Surg. 2016;24:231-40. PMID: 26990713 doi:10.5435/JAAOS-D-14-00406

This content was last updated in August 2018.