
### Correct Answer: B) Genitourinary syndrome of menopause 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose genitourinary syndrome of menopause.

#### **Key Point:** Genitourinary syndrome of menopause is a clinical diagnosis characterized by vulvar itching, vaginal dryness, and dyspareunia; pelvic examination findings include pale, shiny vaginal walls; decreased rugae; and petechiae.

The most likely diagnosis is genitourinary syndrome of menopause (vaginal atrophy). The clinical history and physical examination are most helpful for diagnosing genitourinary syndrome of menopause. Approximately 10% to 40% of menopausal women experience symptoms related to vaginal atrophy, including vulvar itching, vaginal dryness, and dyspareunia. On physical examination, pale and shiny vaginal walls, decreased rugae, and petechiae are characteristic findings. In contrast to menopausal vasomotor symptoms, which may last for a few years and resolve spontaneously, genitourinary syndrome of menopause is frequently progressive and often requires treatment. Mild to moderate symptoms can be treated with vaginal moisturizers and lubricants, but more severe symptoms, as experienced by this patient, are best treated with vaginal estrogen.
Like genitourinary syndrome of menopause, acute allergic contact dermatitis presents with intense pruritus, often worse at night, as well as burning and stinging. Defining characteristics on physical examination include a discrete, well-demarcated area of erythema and edema. Fissures may be present along the labial folds. Excoriations are common and may become secondarily infected. The course of acute contact dermatitis progresses over days, not months as experienced by this patient. The most commonly implicated culprits are fragrances, medications, and preservatives in medications, such as glucocorticoids. Diagnosis is typically made on clinical grounds; biopsy is rarely necessary. Treatment generally consists of allergen avoidance and soaking in warm water (bathtub or sitz bath), followed by application of an emollient, such as petrolatum or a low-potency glucocorticoid.
Lichen planus is an inflammatory condition that can affect the skin, nails, or mucosa. Clinical presentation includes white lines and patches (Wickham striae) or painful erythema and erosions (erosive variant). Therapies are glucocorticoids (systemic and topical) and immunosuppressive agents in severe disease.
Lichen sclerosus is an inflammatory condition that often presents as white, atrophic patches on the genital and perianal skin. It differs from lichen planus in its clinical presentation of white patches that circumferentially involve the vaginal introitus and perianal area (“figure 8” appearance). Prepubertal girls and postmenopausal women are at highest risk. Biopsy establishes the diagnosis and can differentiate it from other inflammatory disorders. Treatment is with potent topical glucocorticoids.

**Bibliography**

Faubion SS, Sood R, Kapoor E. Genitourinary syndrome of menopause: management strategies for the clinician. Mayo Clin Proc. 2017;92:1842-1849. PMID: 29202940 doi:10.1016/j.mayocp.2017.08.019

This content was last updated in August 2018.