
### Correct Answer: C) Opioid risk assessment 

**Educational Objective:** Screen a patient for opioid-related risk.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with chronic pain, risk assessment should be performed before initiating or continuing opioid therapy.

The recommended next step in management before prescribing opioid therapy is to perform an opioid risk assessment. Opioid therapy may be reasonably prescribed to this patient with pain that has not responded to nonpharmacologic and nonopioid therapies as part of a multimodal treatment plan, which may also include cognitive behavioral therapy and/or physical therapy. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for Chronic Pain recommends that before starting and periodically during continuation of opioid therapy, clinicians should evaluate risk factors for opioid-related harms. Clinicians should incorporate into the management plan strategies to mitigate risk, including offering naloxone when factors that increase risk for opioid overdose (such as history of overdose, history of substance use disorder, higher opioid dosages [≥50 morphine milligram equivalents/day], or concurrent benzodiazepine use) are present. Other factors that strongly support the coprescribing of naloxone include the presence of COPD or obstructive sleep apnea. Similar interventions are indicated for patients not prescribed opioids but who are otherwise at high risk for overdose, such as those illicitly using opioids or drugs that may be contaminated with opioids (methamphetamine and cocaine), those with a history of opioid misuse who have been recently released from incarceration, and those receiving treatment for opioid use disorder. Other recommended risk-mitigation strategies include reviewing the patient's history of controlled substance use with state prescription monitoring program data and urine drug testing before initiation of therapy and at least annually thereafter.
The Current Opioid Misuse Measure is a brief self-report survey of current aberrant drug-related behavior. It is intended for use in patients currently receiving long-term opioid therapy who may be misusing opioid medications. Its value in improving outcomes related to misuse or overuse of opioids is unknown, and it would not be the next management step in this patient who has yet to be prescribed opioid therapy.
Coprescription of naloxone is recommended in patients at high risk for opioid overdose. In this patient, opioid risk assessment would further delineate the patient's risk and may prompt consideration of naloxone, but until the risk assessment is completed, prescribing naloxone is premature.
In patients with no apparent mental health diagnoses, psychiatry referral is not routinely needed before prescribing long-term opioid therapy. Psychiatry referral may be appropriate for patients with a comorbid psychiatric diagnosis and, in those circumstances, could be part of a multimodal treatment plan. However, it is not the next recommended step in the management of this patient's opioid therapy.

**Bibliography**

Dowell D, Haegerich TM, Chou R. CDC guideline for prescribing opioids for chronic pain—United States, 2016. JAMA. 2016;315:1624-45. PMID: 26977696 doi:10.1001/jama.2016.1464

This content was last updated in May 2019.