
### Correct Answer: B) 3 Days 

**Educational Objective:** Manage perioperative anticoagulation in a patient receiving non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulant therapy.

#### **Key Point:** When it is necessary to discontinue anticoagulant therapy for surgery, non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants can be stopped 2 to 3 days preoperatively because of their short half-lives.

Apixaban should be discontinued 3 days before surgery because there is a moderate to high bleeding risk with partial colectomy. Perioperative management of non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulant (NOAC) therapy, such as with the factor Xa inhibitors (apixaban, edoxaban, rivaroxaban), is based on the patient's creatinine clearance and bleeding risk. When it is necessary to discontinue anticoagulation for surgery, NOACs can generally be stopped 2 to 3 days preoperatively because of their short half-lives. The shorter period is considered for patients undergoing procedures with low bleeding risk, and the longer period is considered for patients undergoing procedures with moderate or high bleeding risk. This applies to patients with normal kidney function or mild to moderate kidney disease (creatinine clearance ≥30 mL/min). For patients with creatinine clearance less than 30 mL/min, there are no data to guide recommendations; clinicians are advised to obtain an anti-Xa level or discontinue anticoagulation at least 72 hours before surgery. In patients taking the direct thrombin inhibitor dabigatran with creatinine clearance greater than 80 mL/min, dabigatran can be discontinued 2 to 3 days before surgery, with the longer period considered for moderate to high bleeding risk; for creatinine clearance less than 80 mL/min, dabigatran should be withheld at least 3 days preoperatively. The lower the creatinine clearance, the longer it must be withheld preoperatively.
For procedures with low bleeding risk, withholding apixaban 2 days preoperatively is usually sufficient; however, withholding apixaban only 1 day before surgery is insufficient for all procedures. Discontinuing apixaban 5 or 7 days before surgery would expose this patient to a small but increased thrombotic risk during that time frame.
In patients taking NOACs, bridging anticoagulation is unnecessary because of the rapid onset and short half-life associated with these drugs. Postoperative timing of NOAC reinstitution depends on the bleeding risk associated with the surgery, as NOACs reach therapeutic levels in 1 to 3 hours, at which point the patient is presumed to be fully anticoagulated. NOACs may be resumed once adequate hemostasis is ensured, usually 24 to 72 hours after surgery. Close collaboration with the surgeon is advised.

**Bibliography**

Doherty JU, Gluckman TJ, Hucker WJ, Januzzi JL Jr, Ortel TL, Saxonhouse SJ, et al. 2017 ACC expert consensus decision pathway for periprocedural management of anticoagulation in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation: a report of the American College of Cardiology Clinical Expert Consensus Document Task Force. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2017;69:871-898. PMID: 28081965 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2016.11.024

This content was last updated in August 2018.