
### Correct Answer: B) Cognitive behavioral therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat major depressive disorder with cognitive behavioral therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Cognitive behavioral therapy and second-generation antidepressants have proved equally effective for treatment of major depressive disorder, with similar rates of discontinuation; treatment selection should be made after discussion of adverse effect profiles, accessibility, cost, and preferences with the patient.

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is the most appropriate initial therapy for this patient with major depressive disorder. Most patients with mild or moderate depression (PHQ-9 score <15) are treated in the primary care setting. Referral to a psychiatrist is indicated for patients with severe depression, failure of initial therapy, complex psychiatric comorbidities, and high suicide risk. In a 2016 clinical practice guideline, the American College of Physicians recommends that clinicians treat patients with major depressive disorder with CBT or second-generation antidepressants (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, serotonin modulators, or atypical antidepressants) after discussing adverse effect profiles, accessibility, cost, and preferences with the patient. On the basis of moderate-quality evidence, CBT and second-generation antidepressants were equally effective treatments for major depressive disorder, with similar rates of discontinuation. For this patient who is opposed to the use of psychotropic medications, CBT is the best initial treatment.
Amitriptyline and other tricyclic antidepressants can be used to treat major depressive disorder, but these agents are second-line therapy because of the higher rate of associated side effects.
Paroxetine is a second-generation antidepressant that is a reasonable choice for initial management of major depressive disorder. However, there is a particularly high incidence of side effects with paroxetine use. This patient is wary of psychotropic medications, and if one were to be tried, a different second-generation antidepressant with a lower incidence of side effects would be preferred to improve patient adherence.
Quetiapine is FDA approved for use in combination with an antidepressant for the treatment of depression that does not respond to initial therapy. First-line treatment has not yet been attempted in this patient, and quetiapine is not appropriate as monotherapy for major depressive disorder.

**Bibliography**

Qaseem A, Barry MJ, Kansagara D; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the American College of Physicians. Nonpharmacologic versus pharmacologic treatment of adult patients with major depressive disorder: a clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians. Ann Intern Med. 2016;164:350-9. PMID: 26857948

This content was last updated in August 2018.