
### Correct Answer: A) Discontinue lisinopril 

**Educational Objective:** Treat ACE inhibitor–induced chronic cough.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with chronic cough who have a normal chest radiograph and are taking an ACE inhibitor, the first intervention is discontinuation of the ACE inhibitor.

The most appropriate management is discontinuation of lisinopril. This patient has chronic cough, defined as cough lasting more than 8 weeks. When smoking and use of an ACE inhibitor are eliminated, the most common causes of chronic cough are upper airway cough syndrome (UACS), gastroesophageal reflux disease, and asthma. Evaluation of chronic cough begins with a thorough history, physical examination, and chest radiography. If the initial evaluation is unrevealing and the patient is taking ACE inhibitor therapy, discontinuation of the ACE inhibitor is the most appropriate first step in management. Up to 20% of patients taking an ACE inhibitor develop a dry cough, usually within 1 to 2 weeks of therapy initiation. Onset of cough, however, may be delayed by months in a small percentage of patients. Cessation of ACE inhibitor therapy usually results in resolution of the cough within 2 weeks. Rechallenge with an ACE inhibitor will result in return of the cough in two thirds of patients and is not recommended. In patients whose blood pressure responded to ACE inhibitor therapy or who require renin-angiotensin system inhibition, an angiotensin receptor blocker can be tried because this class of drugs is associated with a lower incidence of cough.
If a cause of chronic cough is not determined after initial evaluation, and smoking and ACE inhibitor therapy have been discontinued, a stepwise approach is pursued, beginning with a 2-week trial of empiric treatment for UACS. UACS related to allergic rhinitis is best treated with intranasal glucocorticoids, whereas UACS due to nonallergic rhinitis should be treated with first-generation antihistamines and decongestants. This patient has no findings suggestive of allergic rhinitis and has not yet discontinued ACE inhibitor therapy; therefore, an intranasal glucocorticoid should not be initiated.
If chronic cough does not respond to empiric treatment for UACS, evaluation of asthma with spirometry (or empiric treatment) is warranted. If results of spirometry are negative for asthma, bronchial hyperresponsiveness testing should be pursued.
Proton pump inhibitor therapy is indicated in patients with chronic cough when symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux are present or when chronic cough persists despite empiric therapy for UACS or empiric treatment for asthma and nonasthmatic eosinophilic bronchitis with inhaled glucocorticoids.

**Bibliography**

Irwin RS, Baumann MH, Bolser DC, Boulet LP, Braman SS, Brightling CE, et al. Diagnosis and management of cough executive summary: ACCP evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. Chest. 2006;129:1S-23S. PMID: 16428686 doi:10.1378/chest.129.1_suppl.1S

This content was last updated in August 2018.