
### Correct Answer: D) Patient education and no further testing 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient who has undergone direct-to-consumer genetic testing.

#### **Key Point:** Patients who undergo direct-to-consumer genetic testing should be advised of the risks and limitations of these tests, including the possibility for misinterpretation.

This patient should be advised that no further testing is necessary and should be educated on the limitations of direct-to-consumer (DTC) genetic testing. DTC genetic testing is a commercial service that allows patients to obtain genetic information for a low cost and without referral from a physician. These tests estimate the risk for many common medical conditions by genotyping polymorphic nucleotides. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that are disproportionately found in affected individuals are identified, and odds ratios for each SNP are determined. The SNPs are usually common but have low penetrance (that is, most people with an SNP do not develop disease). Individually, SNPs contribute very little to overall disease risk; most SNPs have an odds ratio of less than 1.5. Because counseling or education is not typically provided before or after the DTC genetic test is obtained, patients are generally unable to accurately interpret the results and may request guidance or additional testing from their physicians. This patient's absolute risk for developing prostate cancer based on the test results is extremely small; therefore, no further testing is required.
Screening for prostate cancer in asymptomatic, average-risk men is controversial, and recommendations vary among professional organizations and frequently change. However, no guidelines support performing a digital rectal examination (DRE) to screen for prostate cancer. The overall sensitivity of DRE does not exceed 60%, whereas the specificity is greater than 90%; the positive predictive value of an abnormal DRE is 28%. As such, there is no indication for this test either alone or in combination with serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level measurement.
The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends that clinicians discuss potential benefits and harms of PSA-based screening for prostate cancer in men aged 55 to 69 years. The decision to proceed with PSA level measurement should be individualized based on the patient's beliefs and values. In this 46-year-old patient, obtaining a serum PSA level is not indicated. The patient's family history of prostate cancer at an advanced age does not significantly increase his risk for cancer. He has a low pretest probability of prostate cancer, and a positive test result will likely be a false positive. Nevertheless, patients with positive test results often undergo biopsy with the attendant risks of infection, bleeding, pain, and anxiety.

**Bibliography**

Burke W, Trinidad SB. The deceptive appeal of direct-to-consumer genetics. Ann Intern Med. 2016;164:564-5. PMID: 26925528 doi: 10.7326/M16-0257

This content was last updated in August 2018.