
### Correct Answer: B) MRI of the internal auditory canal 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate unilateral tinnitus and hearing loss.

#### **Key Point:** Tinnitus associated with unilateral sensorineural hearing loss suggests acoustic neuroma and requires advanced imaging with MRI.

The most appropriate management is MRI of the internal auditory canal. The assessment of tinnitus must differentiate more dangerous causes (such as neoplasms or cerebrovascular conditions) from more benign causes (such as infections or drugs). Most commonly, tinnitus is bilateral; unilateral tinnitus may indicate more serious pathology. Patients with unilateral tinnitus should undergo prompt hearing testing; if hearing loss is documented, as in this case, the patient should undergo MRI of the internal auditory canal to rule out an acoustic neuroma. It is important to note that patients who present with tinnitus may not report hearing loss that is subsequently revealed on audiologic testing.
The type of tinnitus is an important factor in the evaluation. Pulsatile tinnitus, when synchronous with the heartbeat, may suggest a vascular anomaly, including atherosclerotic disease, arteriovenous fistulas, or paragangliomas, most commonly in the jugular bulb or tympanic arteries of the middle ear. A patient with pulsatile tinnitus should be examined for bruits over the neck, periauricular area, temple, orbit, and mastoid areas. If the physical examination findings do not explain the pulsatile tinnitus, noninvasive intracranial imaging, including CT angiography or MR angiography, should be performed. This patient does not have pulsatile tinnitus but does have unilateral hearing loss. Therefore, imaging of the internal auditory canal for acoustic neuroma will be of higher diagnostic yield than vascular imaging.
This patient's primary symptom is tinnitus, with accompanying asymptomatic hearing loss. A hearing aid is more likely to be of use in a patient with symptomatic hearing loss. More importantly, the priority in this patient is excluding an acoustic neuroma, not hearing aid placement.
This patient's tinnitus is gradual in onset and requires further evaluation. However, the patient does not need urgent referral to an otolaryngologist. Patients should be urgently referred when tinnitus is associated with symptoms suggesting serious, reversible underlying pathology, including sudden sensorineural hearing loss, pulsatile tinnitus, vestibular symptoms, ear pain, or drainage or malodor that fails to resolve.

**Bibliography**

Baguley D, McFerran D, Hall D. Tinnitus. Lancet. 2013;382:1600-7. PMID: 23827090

This content was last updated in August 2018.