
### Correct Answer: D) No testing 

**Educational Objective:** Use a shared decision-making approach to guide the initiation of breast cancer screening in a younger woman.

#### **Key Point:** The decision to initiate breast cancer screening in women aged 40 to 49 years should be an individualized one based on patient context and values regarding specific benefits and harms.

This patient should not be screened for breast cancer at this time. In women aged 50 to 74 years, there is a clear benefit to screening mammography, and all breast cancer guidelines recommend screening mammography in this age group. Biennial screening mammography imparts most of the benefit of annual screening mammography with fewer harms, although the recommended screening frequency differs between guidelines. In women younger than 50 years or aged 75 years or older, the balance of benefits and harms is less clear, and screening recommendations vary widely. Most guidelines recommend individualized screening decisions for women aged 40 to 49 years based on patient context and values regarding specific benefits and harms. The American College of Physicians states that the potential harms of screening mammography outweigh the benefits in average-risk patients aged 40 to 49 years and suggests that screening occur only if an informed woman requests it. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) concludes that, compared with screening mammography in older women, the number of women in their 40s who benefit from screening mammography is smaller, and the harm is higher; however, the benefit still outweighs the harm. Therefore, the value the patient places on averting death from breast cancer compared with the importance she places on avoiding potential harms (false-positive results, anxiety, and overdiagnosis) can help guide her decision. This patient places more importance on avoiding potential harms and therefore should not pursue screening mammography or breast tomosynthesis at this time; no further testing is the best option.
The USPSTF and ACP both recommend against teaching breast self-examination (BSE), as BSE does not reduce breast cancer mortality and is associated with increased rates of breast biopsy.
The USPSTF found insufficient evidence to assess the balance of benefits and harms of using breast tomosynthesis, or three-dimensional mammography, as a primary screening method for breast cancer; however, National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines indicate that breast tomosynthesis can be considered as an initial screening strategy for average-risk women. In studies, breast tomosynthesis is often associated with double the rate of radiation but lower recall rates.
As women progress through their 40s, the number of women who benefit from screening mammography increases, while the chance for harms slightly decreases. A woman's values and preferences may also shift over time; therefore, breast cancer screening should be periodically discussed.

**Bibliography**

Nelson HD, Pappas M, Cantor A, Griffin J, Daeges M, Humphrey L. Harms of breast cancer screening: systematic review to update the 2009 U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendation. Ann Intern Med. 2016;164:256-67. PMID: 26756737

This content was last updated in September 2019.