
### Correct Answer: D) Pulmonary rehabilitation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat severe dyspnea.

#### **Key Point:** Pulmonary rehabilitation can provide significant benefits for patients with chronic lung disease and has been shown to improve subjective dyspnea in patients with severe COPD and following an acute exacerbation of COPD.

The most appropriate treatment for this patient is pulmonary rehabilitation. Pulmonary rehabilitation is recommended for all symptomatic patients with an FEV1 less than 50% of predicted and specifically for those hospitalized with an acute exacerbation of COPD. These programs include education, functional assessment, nutrition counseling, and follow-up to reinforce behavioral techniques for change. They also include an exercise training component that has been shown to improve endurance, flexibility, and upper and lower body strength. Exercise training can provide sustained benefit for postexacerbation symptoms (such as breathlessness) following the completion of even a single rehabilitation program. When combined with other forms of therapy (medical therapy, smoking cessation, nutrition counseling, and education), pulmonary rehabilitation decreases patients' perceived intensity of breathlessness, reduces dyspnea and fatigue, facilitates increased participation in daily activities, and enhances health-related quality of life, including improvements in anxiety and depression.
This patient has heart failure with preserved ejection fraction but no physical examination findings that suggest volume overload. Thus, initiation of furosemide is not indicated at this time.
Although this patient has severe dyspnea in the setting of advanced COPD, her oxygen saturation is preserved with 1 L/min oxygen by nasal cannula at rest and during a 6-minute walk test. Additional oxygen therapy will not relieve dyspnea or improve clinical outcomes.
Glucocorticoids, such as prednisone, can be an effective treatment in the setting of a COPD exacerbation, which is defined as a sustained worsening of a patient's COPD. Exacerbations are marked by increased breathlessness and are usually accompanied by increased cough and sputum production. This patient has stable chronic dyspnea on exertion and no other findings that would suggest an exacerbation.

**Bibliography**

Cortopassi F, Gurung P, Pinto-Plata V. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in elderly patients. Clin Geriatr Med. 2017;33:539-552. PMID: 28991649

This content was last updated in August 2018.