
### Correct Answer: A) Cancel surgery and refer for liver transplant evaluation 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with decompensated liver disease who is scheduled for elective surgery.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with decompensated liver disease should avoid elective surgery and be referred for liver transplant evaluation.

The most appropriate preoperative management is to cancel surgery and refer the patient for liver transplant evaluation. Patients with cirrhosis but no complications are referred to as having compensated cirrhosis; they may be asymptomatic or may have nonspecific symptoms, such as fatigue, poor sleep, muscle cramps, feeling cold, or itching. Patients with complications of cirrhosis (hepatic encephalopathy, variceal hemorrhage, ascites, spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, hepatorenal syndrome, jaundice, or hepatocellular carcinoma) are referred to as having decompensated cirrhosis. Referral to a transplant center is indicated for patients with decompensation or a Model for End-stage Liver Disease (MELD) score of greater than 15. Patients with Child-Pugh class C disease or a MELD score greater than 20 are at high risk for death, and all but the most urgent and life-saving surgeries should be avoided until after liver transplantation. The MELD score is an equation that incorporates bilirubin, INR, and serum creatinine levels, and it accurately predicts 3-month survival. This patient, who has decompensated liver disease with a MELD score of 22, which confers a 30-day surgical mortality risk of more than 50%, should avoid elective surgery. Patients with decompensated liver disease have not only a higher perioperative mortality rate but also a significantly increased risk for other complications, including encephalopathy, electrolyte derangements, fluid imbalance, coagulopathy, infection, acute kidney injury, and hepatorenal syndrome. It is reasonable to refer patients at intermediate risk to a hepatologist before proceeding with surgery. Patients with compensated liver disease are often able to proceed with surgery with optimal medical management.
The deciding factor in this case is not the patient's duration of sobriety but the presence of decompensated liver disease and an unacceptably high MELD score. Elective surgery should be avoided until these risks are mitigated with liver transplantation.
The American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases recommends against perioperative transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunts, stating that there is no reliable perioperative evidence of improved clinical outcomes.

**Bibliography**

Rai R, Nagral S, Nagral A. Surgery in a patient with liver disease. J Clin Exp Hepatol. 2012;2:238-46. PMID: 25755440

This content was last updated in May 2019.