
### Correct Answer: E) Symptomatic treatment 

**Educational Objective:** Provide culturally sensitive care to a transgender patient.

#### **Key Point:** Irrespective of gender presentation, physicians should provide care for all patients in a sensitive, respectful, and affirming manner.

This patient requires symptomatic treatment of his viral upper respiratory tract symptoms. In general, examination of an organ system should be related to the patient's symptoms. This patient's gender identity is not relevant to the reason for the visit; therefore, obtaining a detailed gender-related history (hormonal, surgical, social, and sexual) and performing a genital examination are unnecessary. Additionally, these interventions may make this nervous patient feel more uncomfortable and potentially dissuade him from returning for important ongoing health care.
A comprehensive history of a transgender person is usually not possible to obtain in one visit; it is best obtained over time in order to build rapport with the patient. In general, history taking is similar in transgender and nontransgender patients and should include family, reproductive, sexual, psychiatric, and social histories. Elements of the history that are unique to the transgender population are hormonal and surgical therapies related to gender transition.
Recommendations for sexually transmitted infection (STI) screening are the same for transgender patients as for nontransgender patients. Screening should take into account the patient's anatomy and sexual history. As it would be inappropriate to perform STI screening in a nontransgender patient during a first-time visit for unrelated episodic care, it would also be inappropriate to screen this patient today. STI screening is important and should be performed; however, it can wait until patient rapport has been established and a more detailed history has been obtained to guide screening.
Many online resources are available for learning about transgender persons and providing culturally sensitive medical care. The University of California, San Francisco, has published guidelines for primary and gender-affirming care of transgender and gender nonbinary persons at . Additionally, the National Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Health Education Center, a program of the Fenway Institute, provides learning modules at .

**Bibliography**

Lewis EB, Vincent B, Brett A, Gibson S, Walsh RJ. I am your trans patient. BMJ. 2017;357:j2963. PMID: 28667010 doi:10.1136/bmj.j2963

This content was last updated in October 2020.