
### Correct Answer: D) Timely discharge summary for the primary care physician 

**Educational Objective:** Use a discharge summary to improve patient safety at transitions of care.

#### **Key Point:** A discharge summary that includes the evaluations performed, medication reconciliation, pending test results, required follow-up tests, and follow-up appointments is an important tool in the communication between the hospital and the follow-up clinician.

Communicating with and sharing the discharge summary with the primary care physician is recommended to improve patient safety and reduce rehospitalization in this patient. The evidence to support a reduction in hospital readmissions with completion of a discharge summary is mixed, most likely because of many complex factors that are difficult to control, such as timeliness, completeness, and quality of the discharge summary. However, the Institute for Healthcare Improvement identifies the lack of a timely discharge summary as a barrier to patient safety and prevention of early hospital readmission and therefore recommends a timely discharge summary as a key element in improving the transition of care from hospital to home. A discharge summary should include the evaluations performed, medication reconciliation, pending test results, required follow-up tests, and follow-up appointments and should be shared with the follow-up clinician. Timely follow-up with the primary care clinician is also important in ensuring that the transition goes smoothly. Another approach that has been successful in reducing hospitalization is the use of multiple team members, such as a nurse and pharmacist, to provide components of care.
A systematic review found that implementation of an intensive home visitation program reduced the risk for hospital readmission for heart failure at 3 to 6 months. This intervention included a series of eight planned home visits, the first within 24 hours of discharge. A medium-intensity intervention that included one telephone call within 7 days of discharge and one planned home visit within 10 days of discharge found no statistically significant reduction in all-cause readmissions or mortality.
Home telemonitoring of patients with heart failure had no impact on hospital readmission or mortality. Postdischarge heart failure patient education programs also failed to result in reduced readmission rates or lower mortality.

**Bibliography**

Rattray NA, Sico JJ, Cox LM, Russ AL, Matthias MS, Frankel RM. Crossing the communication chasm: challenges and opportunities in transitions of care from the hospital to the primary care clinic. Jt Comm J Qual Patient Saf. 2017;43:127-137. PMID: 28334591 doi:10.1016/j.jcjq.2016.11.007

This content was last updated in August 2018.