
### Correct Answer: C) Topical lidocaine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat premature ejaculation.

#### **Key Point:** The most effective pharmacologic options for premature ejaculation is the combination of a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor plus a phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor and topical anesthetics.

Topical lidocaine is the most appropriate treatment for this patient's premature ejaculation. Premature ejaculation is defined as ejaculation that occurs sooner than desired and is distressful to either or both partners. The mainstays of therapy include counseling and pharmacotherapy (oral and topical agents). Pharmacologic therapy is the first-line approach, with the combination of a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) and a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor being most effective; other options, in descending order of efficacy, include topical anesthetics, SSRI or PDE-5 inhibitor monotherapy, and clomipramine. This patient is currently taking a tricyclic antidepressant and has had previous mood instability with an SSRI; therefore, the most appropriate treatment is a regimen of topical lidocaine to help reduce tactile stimulation and thus prolong the time to ejaculation. Topical medications (lidocaine, prilocaine) may be used with or without a condom.
Paroxetine therapy is an effective treatment strategy for premature ejaculation. However, it is not appropriate in this case because of the patient's previously reported mood instability when exposed to sertraline. Both sertraline and paroxetine are SSRIs, which can cause deleterious mood changes (a class effect). In a patient with depression that is currently well controlled, adding an additional psychoactive medication is not warranted.
Testosterone gel, which is used in the treatment of hypogonadism, is not appropriate for this patient. Hypogonadism (androgen deficiency) can lead to decreased libido and erectile dysfunction, but it has not been shown to be a causative or correlative factor in premature ejaculation. Furthermore, this patient has no examination findings that would raise concern for hypogonadism, such as body hair growth and pattern changes, reduced testicular size, or gynecomastia, and his 8:00 AM serum total testosterone level was normal.
Given that the patient's premature ejaculation is distressing to both the patient and his spouse, offering no treatment options could lead to worsening self-confidence, mood, and quality of life.

**Bibliography**

Martin C, Nolen H, Podolnick J, Wang R. Current and emerging therapies in premature ejaculation: Where we are coming from, where we are going. Int J Urol. 2017;24:40-50. PMID: 27704632 doi:10.1111/iju.13202

This content was last updated in March 2021.