
### Correct Answer: D) Pelvic floor muscle training (Kegel exercises) 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a woman with stress urinary incontinence.

#### **Key Point:** Stress urinary incontinence is characterized by urine leakage associated with activities that cause increased intra-abdominal pressure, such as coughing, laughing, or sneezing; it is best managed with pelvic floor muscle training exercises.

The most appropriate treatment for this patient is pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT; also known as Kegel exercises). This multiparous, postmenopausal woman describes classic stress urinary incontinence, which is characterized by urine leakage associated with activities that cause increased intra-abdominal pressure, such as coughing, laughing, or sneezing. The American College of Physicians (ACP) recommends PFMT as first-line therapy for women with stress incontinence. PFMT may also be of benefit in patients with mixed urge and stress incontinence. If performed correctly and diligently, PFMT exercises may strengthen the pelvic floor muscles and enhance urinary retention. The patient is advised to tighten the pelvic muscles as if trying to interrupt urination. Best results require three or four sets of 10 contractions daily, with contractions lasting 10 seconds. The regimen should be continued for a minimum of 15 to 20 weeks. The ACP recommends against pharmacotherapy for this condition.
Bladder training and suppressive therapy are recommended by the ACP for urgency and mixed incontinence. With bladder training, patients are instructed to void regularly throughout the day, regardless of urge, and progressively increase the interval between voids. Suppression techniques are used to manage urge to void outside of the schedule. The patient is instructed to contract pelvic floor muscles quickly three or four times, use a distraction technique (counting backwards from 100), and, when the urge passes, walk to the bathroom to urinate.
The risks and benefits of systemic hormone replacement therapy, such as oral estradiol, in postmenopausal women must be carefully considered. Its use should be reserved for vasomotor symptoms of menopause at the lowest effective dosage. Estrogen replacement therapy is not recommended for chronic medical problems. Trials of topical estrogen therapy for stress urinary incontinence in patients with vaginal atrophy are of mixed quality at best, and its use is not routinely recommended.
Oxybutynin is a treatment for urgency urinary incontinence when bladder training is only partially successful or has failed. It is not recommended for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence.
The ACP recommends exercise and weight loss for all women with obesity and urinary incontinence. This patient does not have overweight, and her incontinence would likely not benefit from exercise and weight loss.

**Bibliography**

Qaseem A, Dallas P, Forciea MA, Starkey M, Denberg TD, Shekelle P; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the American College of Physicians. Nonsurgical management of urinary incontinence in women: a clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians. Ann Intern Med. 2014;161:429-40. PMID: 25222388

This content was last updated in August 2018.