
### Correct Answer: A) Consult with the hospital ethics committee 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a request for potentially inappropriate treatment.

#### **Key Point:** A physician should not provide treatment that conflicts with professional obligations and will not meet the goals of care; when the physician and the patient (or family members) have conflicting goals of care, an ethics consultation may be beneficial.

The most appropriate management is consultation with the hospital ethics committee. A recent policy statement from the Society of Critical Care Medicine recommends that appropriate treatment goals of ICU care include treatment that provides a reasonable expectation of survival outside of the acute care setting with sufficient cognitive ability to perceive benefits of treatment, or palliative care through the dying process in the ICU. Because conflicts between the desire to provide benefit to the patient and the desire to minimize the burden of treatment can be very difficult, one of the most important skills of the physician is the ability to communicate and negotiate a reasonable treatment plan with the patient's family. If these situations become intractable, many organizations recommend initiating a process to resolve the disagreement, including notifying surrogates of the process, seeking a second medical opinion, obtaining review by an interdisciplinary ethics committee, offering the surrogate the opportunity to seek care at another institution, and implementing the decision of the resolution process. This patient's family is requesting treatment that the care team does not think will achieve reasonable goals, and an ethics consultation may lead to conflict resolution.
In some situations, the physician and the patient's family may mutually establish a time frame in which care will be withdrawn if there is no improvement; however, these decisions should not be made unilaterally by the care team.
A physician should not provide treatment that conflicts with professional obligations and will not meet the goals of care. However, often by communicating his or her concerns, a physician is able to help a family understand the burden of continued, ineffective treatment. If resolution is not possible, family members may seek transfer to another institution; however, the physician is not obliged to initiate such arrangements.

**Bibliography**

Kon AA, Shepard EK, Sederstrom NO, Swoboda SM, Marshall MF, Birriel B, et al. Defining futile and potentially inappropriate interventions: a policy statement from the Society of Critical Care Medicine Ethics Committee. Crit Care Med. 2016;44:1769-74. PMID: 27525995 doi: 10.1097/CCM.0000000000001965

This content was last updated in August 2018.