
### Correct Answer: D) Vaginal estrogen therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat genitourinary syndrome of menopause.

#### **Key Point:** Vaginal estrogen therapy is appropriate treatment for patients with moderate to severe genitourinary syndrome of menopause that has not responded to moisturizers and lubricants.

Vaginal estrogen therapy is the most appropriate treatment for this patient with genitourinary syndrome of menopause (GSM), also known as vaginal atrophy. GSM is a common condition in postmenopausal women that is characterized by dryness, inflammation, and thinning of the vaginal walls due to decreased estrogen. Other symptoms include dyspareunia, itching, and vulvovaginal irritation. The associated dyspareunia may lead to avoidance of sexual activity because of discomfort. This patient's pelvic examination features are classic for GSM, including a pale and dry vaginal lining with reduction in rugae. For severe symptoms or symptoms not responsive to moisturizers and lubricants, topical estrogen therapy has numerous beneficial effects, including restoration of the acidic vaginal pH, thickening of the epithelium, and increase in vaginal secretions. Available preparations include estradiol or conjugated estrogen in tablet, cream, or ring forms. Low-dose vaginal estradiol tablets and the estradiol vaginal ring have minimal systemic estrogen absorption. Because estradiol absorption is insufficient to cause endometrial proliferation, concurrent progestin is typically not indicated when low-dose local estrogen is used to treat GSM. The dose and duration of topical estrogen therapy are individualized according to symptom severity. Family history of breast cancer is not a contraindication to use.
A potent topical glucocorticoid, such as clobetasol, is used to treat vulvar lichen sclerosus. This inflammatory condition often presents as white, atrophic patches on the genital and perianal skin. It is associated with dyspareunia, pain, and pruritus. Prepubertal girls and postmenopausal women appear to be at highest risk. The intense itching and plaque-like involvement of the labia, introitus, and perianal region are clinical clues that distinguish vulvar lichen sclerosus from the generalized thinning and drying associated with GSM.
Ospemifene is an estrogen agonist/antagonist used to reduce the severity of moderate to severe dyspareunia in postmenopausal women. It is recommended that women with an intact uterus also take a progestin. How ospemifene compares to vaginal estrogens in terms of efficacy and safety is unknown. Because topical estrogen therapy has a long history of safety, experts recommend that ospemifene be reserved for women who cannot or will not use topical estrogens.
Although systemic estrogen therapy may help with symptoms of vaginal atrophy, use of vaginal estrogen is most effective for treatment of GSM in a patient with no other menopausal symptoms, such as hot flushes, night sweats, or mood concerns.
Recent evidence suggests that vaginal estrogen therapy may be as effective as vaginal lubricants for treating postmenopausal vaginal symptoms. However, in this patient with symptoms that have not responded to vaginal lubricants, vaginal estrogen is the most reasonable option.

**Bibliography**

The NAMS 2017 Hormone Therapy Position Statement Advisory Panel. The 2017 hormone therapy position statement of The North American Menopause Society. Menopause. 2017;24:728-753. PMID: 28650869 doi:10.1097/GME.0000000000000921

This content was last updated in August 2018.