
### Correct Answer: D) Sertraline 

**Educational Objective:** Treat generalized anxiety disorder with pharmacologic therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Treatment options for generalized anxiety disorder include cognitive behavioral therapy and pharmacologic therapy with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor or serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor.

The most appropriate long-term pharmacologic treatment for this patient with generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is sertraline. GAD is characterized by excessive anxiety about activities or events (occupation, school) occurring more days than not for at least 6 months and causing significant functional impairment. Patients with GAD also experience difficulty concentrating, irritability, muscle tension, restlessness, and sleep disturbance. A useful tool for identifying and assessing the severity of GAD is the Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item scale (GAD-7), which asks patients to rate seven items on a scale of 0 to 3 based on increasing severity (). A score of 5 to 9 indicates mild anxiety, 10 to 14 moderate anxiety, and 15 to 21 severe anxiety. The GAD-7 can be used to monitor symptom severity over time, allowing clinicians to monitor treatment effectiveness.
Treatment options for GAD include cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and pharmacologic therapy, such as with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) or serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI). Patients with GAD often have comorbid mood and anxiety disorders, which often make SSRIs (such as sertraline) and SNRIs (such as venlafaxine) preferred because of their broad therapeutic applicability. CBT is the most effective psychotherapy for GAD; trials have shown it is as effective as pharmacologic therapy and can be used as monotherapy or in combination with drugs. The choice between pharmacologic therapy and CBT is often based on patient preference and the presence of comorbid disorders. Another consideration may be costs of treatment, both direct and indirect (due to time away from work or school). Depending on the particular agent, antidepressant therapy costs $100 to $300 per year, with low indirect costs. On average, annual costs for CBT are three to four times higher than for antidepressant therapy and also require significant time away from work or school to attend therapy.
Tricyclic antidepressants, such as amitriptyline, are considered second-line therapy for GAD because of a higher incidence of side effects with their use.
Benzodiazepines, such as clonazepam, are useful for controlling severe anxiety symptoms, especially before the benefits of CBT or other pharmacologic therapy take effect. These agents should be used only for short periods (<4-6 weeks) because of the potential for dependency.
Lithium and other mood stabilizers are appropriate treatment for bipolar disorder but are not indicated for the treatment of anxiety disorders.

**Bibliography**

Patel G, Fancher TL. In the clinic. Generalized anxiety disorder. Ann Intern Med. 2013;159:ITC6-1–ITC6-11; quiz ITC6-12. PMID: 24297210

This content was last updated in August 2018.