
### Correct Answer: C) Total of 35 days 

**Educational Objective:** Provide extended-duration postoperative pharmacologic venous thromboembolism prophylaxis in a patient undergoing major orthopedic surgery.

#### **Key Point:** For patients undergoing orthopedic surgery without increased bleeding risk, postoperative dual venous thromboembolism prophylaxis with intermittent pneumatic compression and low-molecular-weight heparin is recommended during hospitalization; low-molecular-weight heparin should be continued for up to 35 days.

The recommended postoperative duration of venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis with low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) following major orthopedic surgery is 35 days in patients who are not at increased bleeding risk and have not experienced perioperative bleeding complications. The American College of Chest Physicians (ACCP) antithrombotic guideline provides recommendations for VTE prophylaxis for both orthopedic and nonorthopedic surgery populations. The ACCP guideline identifies hip arthroplasty, knee arthroplasty, and hip fracture surgery as major orthopedic surgeries. These surgeries pose a high VTE risk, and both pharmacologic and mechanical VTE prophylaxis are recommended during hospitalization. The ACCP recommends LMWH over other pharmacologic agents, although there are other acceptable agents, including aspirin for those unable or unwilling to take heparin. For patients without increased bleeding risk, extended duration of postoperative prophylaxis for up to 35 days is recommended over shorter-duration prophylaxis of 10 to 14 days, which is the minimum recommended duration of pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis in orthopedic surgery. Randomized trials, systematic reviews, and meta-analyses have shown that compared with placebo, aspirin, and warfarin, extended prophylaxis up to 35 days with LMWH reduces the rate of VTE disease without excess bleeding in patients who undergo major orthopedic surgery. If bleeding risk is especially high, mechanical prophylaxis is recommended over no prophylaxis. In patients who decline LMWH injections or who are unable to tolerate LMWH, the oral direct thrombin inhibitor dabigatran, a factor Xa inhibitor (apixaban, rivaroxaban, edoxaban), or a vitamin K antagonist (warfarin) is recommended over alternate forms of prophylaxis. For this patient undergoing major orthopedic surgery, dual perioperative VTE prophylaxis with LMWH and intermittent pneumatic compression is recommended during hospitalization, with LMWH continued for up to 35 days.
Because of the elevated risk for VTE in many patients undergoing orthopedic surgery, a short course of VTE prophylaxis, such as 10 or 14 days, is insufficient because thrombotic risk remains elevated beyond this time frame.

**Bibliography**

Falck-Ytter Y, Francis CW, Johanson NA, Curley C, Dahl OE, Schulman S, et al. Prevention of VTE in orthopedic surgery patients: antithrombotic therapy and prevention of thrombosis, 9th ed: American College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. Chest. 2012;141:e278S-e325S. PMID: 22315265

This content was last updated in August 2018.