
### Correct Answer: B) Prescribe naloxone and provide caregiver education on its use 

**Educational Objective:** Implement risk-mitigation strategies for patients at high risk for opioid overdose.

#### **Key Point:** Physicians should consider offering naloxone to patients receiving long-term opioid therapy with a high risk for overdose (history of overdose or substance use disorder, other mental health disorder, high opioid dosage [≥50 morphine milligram equivalents/day], concurrent benzodiazepine use, COPD, or obstructive sleep apnea).

The most appropriate next step before continued prescription of this patient's long-term opioid therapy is to prescribe naloxone and provide caregiver education on its use. Naloxone, a pure opioid antagonist that acts as a competitive inhibitor at opioid receptors, can be a life-saving reversal agent for patients with opioid overdose, and evidence shows that naloxone is effective in preventing opioid-related overdose death at the community level through community-based distribution. The U.S. Department of Health & Human Services recommends that physicians strongly consider offering naloxone to patients receiving long-term opioid therapy with a high risk for overdose (history of overdose or substance use disorder, other mental health disorder, high opioid dosage [≥50 morphine milligram equivalents/day], concurrent benzodiazepine use, or COPD or obstructive sleep apnea). Similar interventions are indicated for patients not prescribed opioids but who are otherwise at high risk for overdose, such as those illicitly using opioids or drugs that may be contaminated with opioids (methamphetamine and cocaine), those with a history of opioid misuse who have been recently released from incarceration, or those receiving treatment for opioid use disorder. When naloxone is prescribed, patients and patients' household members should be educated on its use and on ways to prevent overdose. This patient is currently taking approximately 75 morphine milligram equivalents/day and using a long-acting formulation; therefore, she is considered at high risk for overdose and should be considered for naloxone prescription.
Coprescription of opioids and benzodiazepines is associated with an increased risk for death from overdose and should be avoided when prescribing medications for patients with chronic pain.
Close monitoring, including review of prescription monitoring databases (where available), urine drug screening, and ongoing functional assessment, are all appropriate tools in the safe prescribing of long-term opioid therapy; however, weekly nursing visits are not currently recommended as a risk-mitigation strategy.
Although current guidelines recommend avoiding the use of extended-release opioids, this patient's pain and quality of life improved with substitution of a short-acting regimen for a transdermal fentanyl patch. If the benefits outweigh the risks and the patient has provided informed consent and received appropriate education, continued extended-release opioid therapy (with implementation of appropriate safety mechanisms) could be considered in this patient with chronic, irreversible pain.

**Bibliography**

Dowell D, Haegerich TM, Chou R. CDC guideline for prescribing opioids for chronic pain—United States, 2016. JAMA. 2016;315:1624-45. PMID: 26977696 doi:10.1001/jama.2016.1464

This content was last updated in May 2019.