
### Correct Answer: A) Add alirocumab 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease who has not achieved target LDL cholesterol reduction with statin therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitors and ezetimibe are the preferred nonstatin drugs for patients with clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease who do not achieve goal LDL cholesterol reduction with maximally tolerated statin therapy.

In addition to discontinuing ezetimibe, the most appropriate management of this patient with clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) is to initiate alirocumab. For patients with clinical ASCVD, high-intensity statin therapy is recommended, with a goal of at least 50% LDL cholesterol reduction. Nonstatin drugs, preferably ezetimibe or a proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitor, should be considered alone or in combination with statins in patients who do not achieve target LDL cholesterol reduction. PCSK9 inhibitors, such as alirocumab, are monoclonal antibodies that bind to serine protease PCSK9, a liver enzyme that degrades hepatocyte LDL receptors. Treatment with PCSK9 inhibitors produces a 50% to 60% reduction in LDL cholesterol. ASCVD risk reduction has also been demonstrated with PCSK9 inhibitors, although studies have included a relatively small number of patients with limited follow-up. A modest reduction in triglyceride level and increase in HDL cholesterol level have also been observed with their use. Limitations include high cost and the need for subcutaneous injections every 2 to 4 weeks. Common side effects include injection-site reactions, fatigue, and limb pain. This patient with clinical ASCVD has not achieved the goal LDL cholesterol reduction on maximally tolerated statin therapy and did not tolerate ezetimibe. Therefore, alirocumab should be initiated. In addition to starting a PCSK9 inhibitor, intensification of therapeutic lifestyle changes, such as weight loss and regular exercise, should be encouraged.
A bile acid sequestrant, such as cholestyramine, may be considered as an optional alternative agent for patients with ezetimibe intolerance and a triglyceride level less than 300 mg/dL (3.39 mmol/L) or because of patient preference, but there is no evidence of a net cardiovascular risk reduction benefit with bile acid sequestrants in combination with statins.
Niacin is no longer routinely recommended for treatment of hyperlipidemia based on lack of efficacy and potential harms.
Continuing atorvastatin without additional intervention is unlikely to result in further LDL cholesterol reduction.

**Bibliography**

Lloyd-Jones DM, Morris PB, Ballantyne CM, Birtcher KK, Daly DD Jr, DePalma SM, et al. 2017 focused update of the 2016 ACC expert consensus decision pathway on the role of non-statin therapies for LDL-Cholesterol lowering in the management of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease risk: a report of the American College of Cardiology Task Force on Expert Consensus Decision Pathways. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2017;70:1785-1822. PMID: 28886926 doi:10.1016/j.jacc.2017.07.745

This content was last updated in May 2019.