
### Correct Answer: C) Discontinue kava tea 

**Educational Objective:** Counsel a patient on the use of herbal supplements.

#### **Key Point:** Dietary and herbal supplements have questionable efficacy and may be associated with considerable harms; physicians must inform patients of harmful supplements and suggest safer alternatives.

This patient should be advised to discontinue drinking kava tea. Patients take dietary supplements for various reasons, such as to prevent illness, enhance health, and correct perceived deficiencies. In the United States, approximately 50% of adults report using vitamins or dietary supplements, with total consumer spending of more than $20 billion each year. Despite their prevalent use, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force does not recommend multivitamins or herbal supplements for the prevention of cardiovascular disease or cancer. In addition to questionable efficacy, supplement use is associated with risk for considerable harms, including side effects; interactions with other drugs; and harms related to inclusion of unadvertised additives, compounds, or toxins. Despite the risks, many patients strongly believe in supplement use, and the role of the physician is to inform these patients of harmful supplements and suggest safer alternatives. This patient is taking kava, which is derived from Piper methysticum, a plant native to the western Pacific islands. It is often used to relieve stress and anxiety but has been associated with liver damage. In 2002, the FDA issued a consumer advisory regarding the potential risk for severe liver injury with kava use, especially in patients with liver disease or at risk for liver disease. Therefore, advising this patient with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis to discontinue kava tea would be the best management option.
Echinacea may be slightly effective for prevention but not treatment of the common cold. The most common side effects are gastrointestinal upset and nausea. Although this patient does not need to take echinacea, this herb has a relatively safe side effect profile, and she may continue it if she wishes.
The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends daily folic acid supplementation (400 to 800 µg) for women of childbearing age to prevent fetal neural tube defects; therefore, folic acid should be continued in this 35-year-old patient.
This patient has diagnoses of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and obesity, and continuing an herbal supplement that is associated with known hepatotoxicity may cause harms.

**Bibliography**

Teschke R, Wolff A, Frenzel C, Schulze J, Eickhoff A. Herbal hepatotoxicity: a tabular compilation of reported cases. Liver Int. 2012;32:1543-56. PMID: 22928722 doi: 10.1111/j.1478-3231.2012.02864.x

This content was last updated in August 2018.