
### Correct Answer: B) Electrocardiography 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate preoperative cardiac risk using electrocardiography in a patient with known cardiovascular disease.

#### **Key Point:** Preoperative electrocardiography is reasonable for patients with known atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, including coronary artery disease, arrhythmia, peripheral artery disease, cerebrovascular disease, or significant structural heart disease, who are undergoing moderate- to high-risk surgeries; cardiac stress testing should generally be reserved for patients at elevated risk for major adverse cardiac event with a functional capacity less than 4 metabolic equivalents, but only if the results of the test will change perioperative management.

The most appropriate preoperative cardiac testing for this patient is electrocardiography (ECG). The 2014 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guideline on perioperative cardiovascular evaluation and management of patients undergoing noncardiac surgery states that preoperative ECG is reasonable for patients with known atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (including coronary artery disease, arrhythmia, peripheral artery disease, cerebrovascular disease, or significant structural heart disease) who are undergoing moderate- to high-risk surgeries. Preoperative ECG also may be considered for other asymptomatic patients, except for those undergoing low-risk procedures. This patient has known coronary artery disease and has not undergone ECG in 2 years. It is reasonable to obtain ECG preoperatively because certain interval findings (for example, new Q waves), additional evidence of conduction disease, or arrhythmia may result in changes in perioperative management.
Risk calculators, including the Revised Cardiac Risk Index and the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program myocardial infarction and cardiac arrest calculator, can be used to determine the risk for a perioperative major adverse cardiac event (MACE). Patients with low risk (<1% risk for perioperative MACE) may proceed to surgery without preoperative cardiac stress testing, whereas patients with elevated risk (≥1% risk for perioperative MACE) should undergo assessment of functional capacity. Metabolic equivalents (METs) are used to represent the patient's functional capacity based on the intensity of activity able to be performed. If the patient's functional capacity exceeds 4 METs, the patient may proceed to surgery without further testing. Examples of 4 METs of activity include the ability to walk 4 miles per hour on a flat surface, climb one to two flights of stairs without stopping, or perform vigorous housework such as vacuuming. Swimming for 30 minutes also exceeds this threshold. Cardiac stress testing should generally be reserved for patients at elevated risk for MACE with a functional capacity less than 4 METs, but only if the results of the test will change perioperative management. Although this patient has an elevated risk for a MACE perioperatively, his functional capacity exceeds 4 METs; therefore, he does not require preoperative cardiac stress testing with dobutamine or exercise.

**Bibliography**

Fleisher LA, Fleischmann KE, Auerbach AD, Barnason SA, Beckman JA, Bozkurt B, et al; American College of Cardiology. 2014 ACC/AHA guideline on perioperative cardiovascular evaluation and management of patients undergoing noncardiac surgery: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2014;64:e77-137. PMID: 25091544

This content was last updated in August 2018.