
### Correct Answer: D) Ulnar nerve entrapment 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose ulnar nerve entrapment.

#### **Key Point:** Ulnar nerve entrapment, also known as cubital tunnel syndrome, is caused by impingement of the ulnar nerve at the elbow by bone spurs, fibrous tissue, ganglion cysts, or ulnar nerve subluxation; characteristics include pain at the elbow that worsens with flexion, paresthesias and numbness of the fourth and fifth fingers, and weakness of the interosseous muscles.

This patient has symptoms consistent with ulnar neuropathy (fourth and fifth finger numbness and, more rarely, interosseous muscle weakness), making ulnar nerve entrapment the most likely diagnosis. Ulnar nerve entrapment, also known as cubital tunnel syndrome, is caused by impingement of the ulnar nerve at the elbow by bone spurs, fibrous tissue, ganglion cysts, or ulnar nerve subluxation. Elbow pain typically worsens with flexion. The diagnosis is usually made clinically and does not require imaging. Initial treatment consists of activity modification, splinting the elbow at night to prevent prolonged elbow flexion, and use of an elbow pad during the day to avoid direct trauma. Surgery is an option when conservative measures fail in the setting of significant or progressive symptoms.
Carpal tunnel syndrome is associated with wrist pain and symptoms of median nerve dysfunction, namely numbness in the first three fingers and pain that radiates into the forearm and hand. Pain frequently worsens at night and with repetitive actions. Findings on physical examination may include weakened thumb abduction; thenar muscle atrophy suggests severe disease. These symptoms and findings are not present in this patient.
Medial epicondylitis is an important differential diagnosis in a patient presenting with medial elbow pain. Patients with this condition usually have pain and tenderness over the medial epicondyle and ventral forearm, which worsens with resisted wrist flexion rather than elbow flexion. Medial epicondylitis is not usually associated with hand symptoms.
Olecranon bursitis is associated with swelling and, depending on the cause, significant tenderness of the posterior elbow over the olecranon bursa. This patient has not had signs of elbow swelling, and olecranon bursitis does not cause neuropathic symptoms.

**Bibliography**

Hobson-Webb LD, Juel VC. Common entrapment neuropathies. Continuum (Minneap Minn). 2017;23:487-511. PMID: 28375915 doi:10.1212/CON.0000000000000452

This content was last updated in August 2018.