
### Correct Answer: D) Orthostatic blood pressure measurement and electrocardiography 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with syncope.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with syncope, the physical examination should include an in-depth cardiovascular evaluation, including orthostatic (postural) blood pressure measurements, as well as a basic neurologic examination to evaluate for focal defects; electrocardiography is the only diagnostic study that is routinely recommended in patients with syncope.

The most appropriate diagnostic tests to perform next are orthostatic blood pressure measurement and electrocardiography. The American Heart Association (AHA), the American College of Cardiology (ACC), and the Heart Rhythm Society (HRS) jointly conclude that the history and physical examination are the most important diagnostic tools in determining the underlying cause of a syncopal event. The history should focus on eliciting prodromal or postepisode symptoms, comorbid medical or psychiatric conditions, the psychosocial context of the event, and bystander information. The patient's prescription and over-the-counter medications should also be thoroughly reviewed. The physical examination should include an in-depth cardiovascular evaluation, including orthostatic (postural) blood pressure measurements, as well as a basic neurologic examination to evaluate for focal defects. Orthostatic blood pressure assessment has consistently been shown to be the most valuable diagnostic tool in the evaluation of syncope. The AHA/ACC/HRS guideline for the evaluation and management of patients with syncope additionally recommends that resting 12-lead electrocardiography (ECG) be performed in all patients with syncope to identify an underlying arrhythmia, myocardial ischemia, or QT prolongation. Further diagnostic testing should be methodically selected on the basis of the clinical circumstances.
The diagnostic yield of 24- to 48-hour electrocardiographic monitoring is low (1%-2%), unless there are frequent episodes over a short period. More prolonged rhythm monitoring with an external loop event recorder improves yield if the patient has clinical or ECG features of arrhythmia-related syncope. Clinical evidence does not support routine echocardiography in patients with syncope. Unexpected findings on echocardiogram to explain syncope are uncommon.
Laboratory testing, such as B-type natriuretic peptide and cardiac enzyme measurement, has considerably low diagnostic yield and is not recommended in the routine evaluation of patients with syncope. Rather, further diagnostic testing should be based on the findings on the history, physical examination, and ECG.
The AHA/ACC/HRS syncope guideline does not recommend MRI and CT of the head in the routine evaluation of patients with syncope in the absence of head injury or focal neurologic findings that support further evaluation. Similarly, carotid artery imaging is not recommended in the routine evaluation of patients with syncope in the absence of focal neurologic findings.

**Bibliography**

Shen WK, Sheldon RS, Benditt DG, Cohen MI, Forman DE, Goldberger ZD, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/HRS guideline for the evaluation and management of patients with syncope: executive summary: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines and the Heart Rhythm Society. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2017;70:620-663. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2017.03.002. PMID: 28286222

This content was last updated in August 2018.