
### Correct Answer: B) Liraglutide 

**Educational Objective:** Treat obesity with liraglutide in a patient with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

#### **Key Point:** Weight-loss medications are recommended when a trial of comprehensive lifestyle modification, including reduced dietary intake, exercise, and behavioral therapy, fails to achieve a 5% to 10% reduction in weight after 3 to 6 months.

Liraglutide is the most appropriate next step in treatment. Weight-loss medications are recommended when a trial of comprehensive lifestyle modification, including reduced dietary intake, exercise, and behavioral therapy, fails to achieve a 5% to 10% reduction in weight at 3 to 6 months. This patient has appropriately adhered to dietary caloric restriction, with regular self-monitoring of calorie intake and weight, and is now exercising for more than 150 minutes per week. Her BMI is greater than 27, and she has obesity-related comorbid conditions (type 2 diabetes mellitus and uncontrolled hypertension). Liraglutide has been shown to increase satiety and aid in achieving more than 5% weight loss after 52 weeks of therapy, and it may help the patient feel less hungry.
Bariatric surgery is recommended for patients with BMI of 40 or greater, and for patients with BMI of 35 or greater who have obesity-related comorbidities and who have tried all other weight loss therapies without achieving significant weight loss or improvements in comorbid conditions.
There is no evidence that low-carbohydrate diets are more effective for reducing weight than low-fat diets. This patient is adherent to her chosen diet but has difficulty reducing her caloric intake to achieve continued weight loss. Clinicians should prescribe a diet with which the patient will adhere (that is, a diet that is palatable and affordable) and that maintains negative energy balance in order to achieve weight loss.
Very-low-calorie diets are recommended when rapid weight loss is medically indicated. This patient does not require rapid weight loss, and neither the risk nor the expense of frequent visits and laboratory monitoring are justified in this case.

**Bibliography**

Jensen MD, Ryan DH, Apovian CM, Ard JD, Comuzzie AG, Donato KA, et al; American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2013 AHA/ACC/TOS guideline for the management of overweight and obesity in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines and The Obesity Society. Circulation. 2014;129:S102-38. PMID: 24222017 doi:10.1161/01.cir.0000437739.71477.ee

This content was last updated in August 2018.