
### Correct Answer: A) Now 

**Educational Objective:** Identify appropriate timing for palliative medicine referral in a patient with advanced cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Palliative medicine, with its focus on reducing pain, nonpain symptoms, and psychosocial stress associated with advanced disease, improves quality of life for patients and their caregivers; early initiation of palliative medicine during a life-threatening illness has substantial advantages.

The most appropriate time for palliative medicine referral is now. Palliative medicine (or palliative care) focuses on reducing pain, nonpain symptoms, and psychosocial stress associated with advanced disease. This patient has been diagnosed with incurable lung cancer and would benefit from concurrent specialty palliative medicine in conjunction with initiation of disease-directed therapy. Studies have consistently shown improvements in various quality-of-life metrics when palliative medicine is integrated early in the course of incurable cancer, and such integration is consistent with recommendations from the American Society of Clinical Oncology.
Although referral to palliative care historically occurred at the end of life, an emerging consensus of research indicates that early initiation during a serious or life-threatening illness is associated with substantial advantages. Evidence shows that early palliative medicine referral improves mood and decreases rates of depressive symptoms; anxiety is not heightened by palliative medicine referral. Palliative medicine teams are positioned to work with oncologists and primary care physicians in treating the complex symptoms of serious illness, and an integrated approach is recommended.
Hospice is a specialized form of palliative medicine that can provide a team-based care platform in the patient's preferred setting (for example, home, skilled nursing facility, or residential hospice house). Hospice should be considered for patients with an advanced illness who are no longer candidates for further disease-directed therapy, or whose goals (such as quality of life) are not likely to be met with further disease-directed therapies. Despite significant quality-of-life benefits for patients and their caregivers, hospice referrals often happen late in a patient's illness trajectory, leading to short hospice lengths of stay.

**Bibliography**

Ferrell BR, Temel JS, Temin S, Alesi ER, Balboni TA, Basch EM, et al. Integration of palliative care into standard oncology care: American Society of Clinical Oncology Clinical Practice Guideline Update. J Clin Oncol. 2017;35:96-112. PMID: 28034065

This content was last updated in August 2018.