
### Correct Answer: A) Oral duloxetine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with neuropathic pain with duloxetine.

#### **Key Point:** Gabapentinoids and serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors are first-line therapy for neuropathic pain syndromes.

The most appropriate treatment for this patient with evidence of painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy and substantial neuropathic pain is initiation of oral duloxetine. Diabetes mellitus can cause various types of neuropathy. The most common pattern is symmetric distal sensory or sensorimotor. It is characterized by a stocking-glove distribution that ascends proximally. Diabetic sensorimotor neuropathy frequently presents as a sensation of numbness, tingling, burning, heaviness, pain, or sensitivity to light touch. The pain may worsen at night and with walking. Glycemic control and minimizing cardiovascular risk factors can slow the progression and improve the symptoms of diabetic neuropathy. Treatment of painful neuropathies is symptomatic. Tricyclic antidepressants (amitriptyline, nortriptyline), serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (venlafaxine, duloxetine), antiepileptic drugs (pregabalin, gabapentin, valproic acid), opioids (tapentadol), and topical capsaicin are commonly used. However, only pregabalin, duloxetine, and tapentadol (extended release) have FDA approval for painful diabetic neuropathy. Although duloxetine and gabapentinoids are considered first-line therapy, they are costly. Additionally, in 2019, the FDA issued a warning that gabapentinoids may cause serious breathing difficulties in patients with respiratory risk factors, including opioid use and COPD. The dosage of duloxetine is started at 20 mg/d or 30 mg/d and increased to a goal dosage of 60 mg/d. Dosages higher than 60 mg/d have not been shown to be more effective for analgesia.
Hydromorphone is a potent opioid agonist that is typically used in the treatment of cancer-associated pain, whereas tramadol is a weak opioid agonist with analgesic activity that is influenced by inhibition of serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake. Although potentially effective in the treatment of neuropathic pain syndromes, opioids are considered third-line therapy after maximization and combination of neuropathic agents. Studies have shown that most patients with peripheral neuropathies are not treated with appropriate neuropathic agents or adequate dosages of these drugs, and dosages should be maximized before initiating opioids.
The effectiveness of lamotrigine for chronic neuropathic pain was evaluated in a systematic review. The studies included patients with central poststroke pain, diabetic neuropathy, HIV-related neuropathy, intractable neuropathic pain, spinal cord injury–related pain, and trigeminal neuralgia. Only one study of patients with HIV-related neuropathy had a statistically significant result, which was restricted to patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. The authors concluded that there is no role for lamotrigine in the treatment of chronic neuropathic pain.
Topical NSAIDs such as diclofenac (available as a solution, spray, gel, or patch) provide similar pain relief for inflammatory conditions as do oral medications, with fewer gastrointestinal effects. However, they are significantly more expensive than oral NSAIDs. More importantly, anti-inflammatory agents have not been shown to be effective in the treatment of peripheral neuropathies and would not be indicated in this patient with a neuropathic pain syndrome.

**Bibliography**

Watson JC, Dyck PJ. Peripheral neuropathy: a practical approach to diagnosis and symptom management. Mayo Clin Proc. 2015;90:940-51. PMID: 26141332

This content was last updated in October 2020.