
### Correct Answer: B) Low-dose aspirin 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease with low-dose aspirin therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Low-dose aspirin for the primary prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) and colorectal cancer is recommended for adults aged 50 to 59 years with a 10-year ASCVD risk of 10% or higher who do not have an increased risk for bleeding.

The most appropriate measure to reduce this patient's atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk is low-dose aspirin. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends low-dose aspirin for the primary prevention of ASCVD and colorectal cancer in adults aged 50 to 59 years with a 10-year ASCVD risk of 10% or higher who do not have an increased risk for bleeding, have a life expectancy of at least 10 years, and are willing to take low-dose aspirin daily for at least 10 years. In those aged 60 to 69 years with a 10-year ASCVD risk of 10% or higher, the benefits of aspirin use for primary prevention are smaller but still outweigh the risk for bleeding, and the decision to initiate low-dose aspirin in this population should be individualized. In contrast to the USPSTF recommendations, the American Diabetes Association (ADA) recommends consideration of low-dose aspirin therapy as a primary prevention strategy in patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus who are at increased cardiovascular risk. Similarly, the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association suggest that low-dose aspirin might be considered in patients aged 40 to 70 years at higher risk for ASCVD who do not have an increased risk of bleeding. The decision to initiate low-dose aspirin should be informed by a holistic approach to ASCVD risk estimation that considers risk-enhancing factors, such as strong family history of premature myocardial infarction, smoking, albuminuria, or inability to achieve lipid, blood pressure, or glucose targets. The decision must take into account bleeding risk and patient preferences after careful assessment and a frank discussion of benefits and harms. For patients older than 70 years, aspirin appears to have a greater risk than benefit. The ADA does not recommend aspirin for patients younger than 50 years without major cardiovascular risk factors, although the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association suggest considering therapy at age 40 years in those at higher ASCVD risk.
For patients with ASCVD and documented aspirin allergy, the ADA recommends clopidogrel as an alternative preventive measure. This patient does not have a documented aspirin allergy, and therapy in this patient will be initiated for primary, not secondary, prevention; therefore, clopidogrel is not recommended for this patient.
The most commonly recommended dose of aspirin for primary prevention of cardiovascular events is 75 mg to 100 mg. Primary prevention trials have shown that lower doses are likely as effective as higher doses; however, observational trials and a meta-analysis have demonstrated an increased risk for bleeding with regular-dose aspirin compared with low-dose aspirin.

**Bibliography**

Bibbins-Domingo K; U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Aspirin use for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease and colorectal cancer: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. Ann Intern Med. 2016;164:836-45. PMID: 27064677 doi: 10.7326/M16-0577

This content was last updated in March 2021.