
### Correct Answer: E) Two-week sleep diary 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with symptoms of chronic insomnia with a sleep diary.

#### **Key Point:** The initial evaluation of chronic insomnia involves obtaining a sleep diary to identify adverse environmental factors, inappropriate exposure to electronic screens before bedtime, and sleep patterns.

The most appropriate next step in management of this patient with symptoms of chronic insomnia is to obtain a 2-week sleep diary. Symptoms of insomnia vary and may include poor sleep quality, frustration with sleep quantity, difficulty initiating sleep, or an inability to return to sleep after awakening. In patients with symptoms of insomnia, a thorough history, physical examination, and medication review may point to potentially reversible causes, such as sleep apnea or restless legs syndrome. In the absence of specific historical features that are consistent with a primary sleep disorder, the initial evaluation of insomnia additionally involves obtaining a sleep diary to identify adverse environmental factors, inappropriate exposure to electronic screens (computer, phone, tablet, television) before bedtime, and sleep patterns. If the sleep diary reveals red flags for a primary sleep disorder or another condition that may interfere with sleep, further diagnostic testing would be indicated. Use of the Insomnia Severity Index or the Athens Insomnia Scale can also be a helpful component of a comprehensive sleep assessment. In this patient with daytime somnolence, fatigue, and difficulty with sleep initiation, a sleep log may facilitate collection of an accurate sleep history.
Polysomnography is indicated in patients for whom there is a strong suspicion of a primary sleep disorder based on the initial history and physical examination. Polysomnography typically involves overnight, laboratory-based testing that is monitored by a sleep technician. Similarly, multiple sleep latency testing is a labor-intensive evaluation designed to identify diagnoses of narcolepsy and idiopathic hypersomnia. Neither study is indicated in the initial evaluation of this patient, whose primary problem appears to be initiating sleep.
Overnight pulse oximetry has a high rate of false-positive and false-negative results and has not been validated as a screening tool for obstructive sleep apnea. Normal-appearing results on overnight pulse oximetry may allow for avoidance of further testing in patients with a low pretest probability. However, there is no clinical suspicion for obstructive sleep apnea in this patient, and it would not be indicated in her initial evaluation.
Low serum ferritin levels are strongly correlated with restless legs syndrome, which is characterized by discomforting sensations in the legs at rest or when falling asleep, an urge to move the legs, and immediate relief after moving the legs or walking. However, no features in the history suggest restless legs syndrome as a cause of this patient's chronic insomnia.

**Bibliography**

Masters PA. In the clinic. Insomnia. Ann Intern Med. 2014;161:ITC1-15; quiz ITC16. PMID: 25285559 doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-161-7-201410070-01004

This content was last updated in October 2020.