
### Correct Answer: D) Urethral bladder catheterization 

**Educational Objective:** Manage postoperative urinary retention with urinary catheterization.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with postoperative urinary retention and residual bladder volume of 800 mL or more should be treated with bladder decompression and urinary catheterization.

Bladder decompression with urinary catheterization is the most appropriate management of this patient who has developed postoperative urinary retention (POUR). POUR is a common complication in the postoperative setting and is characterized by the inability to spontaneously and adequately empty the bladder. Risk factors include type of surgery (incontinence and anorectal surgery, hernia repair, joint arthroplasty), longer surgery, use of regional anesthesia, administration of greater than 750 mL of intraoperative fluids, use of certain postoperative medications (opioids, anticholinergic agents), older age, constipation, pelvic organ prolapse, neurologic disease, history of urinary retention, and history of pelvic surgery. POUR is a urologic emergency. Symptoms of suprapubic pain and the finding of a palpable bladder are insensitive indicators of POUR. Patients may also present with frequent urination of small volumes and overflow incontinence. Reversible causes of POUR, such as medication use, should be addressed. Whenever possible, offending medications, including opioids, anticholinergics, antihistamines, antipsychotics, and calcium-blocking drugs, should be discontinued. Early removal of indwelling urinary catheters and voiding trials are recommended. Retrograde voiding trials are preferred to spontaneous voiding trials because they are more predictive of the need for continued catheterization. A retrograde voiding trial involves infusion of sterile saline, followed by the attempt to void. For patients in whom a voiding trial is unsuccessful, intermittent urinary catheterization should be considered in place of indwelling bladder catheterization. Results of a recent randomized controlled trial in patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty and total knee arthroplasty demonstrated that a catheterization threshold of 800 mL significantly reduced the need for postoperative urinary catheterization and did not increase urologic complications.
Placement of a suprapubic catheter would require another surgical procedure and is reserved for situations in which urethral catheterization is not possible or in cases of pelvic trauma.
Suprapubic application of hot packs or warm wet gauze may stimulate spontaneous voiding but lacks proof from well-designed clinical trials. Some experts recommend consideration of this technique in patients for a limited time when residual bladder volume is 200 mL to 400 mL. Greater residual volume should be treated with bladder catheterization.
There is no role for tamsulosin in the treatment of POUR in women. Randomized studies in men have demonstrated that α1-blockade for the treatment of acute urinary retention is associated with a reduced need for bladder catheterization. α1-Blockers should be continued in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia.

**Bibliography**

Bjerregaard LS, Hornum U, Troldborg C, Bogoe S, Bagi P, Kehlet H. Postoperative urinary catheterization thresholds of 500 versus 800 ml after fast-track total hip and knee arthroplasty: a randomized, open-label, controlled trial. Anesthesiology. 2016;124(6):1256-64. PMID: 27054365 doi: 10.1097/ALN.0000000000001112

This content was last updated in October 2020.