
### Correct Answer: D) Mini-Cog testing 

**Educational Objective:** Test for cognitive impairment in a symptomatic older woman.

#### **Key Point:** Cognitive impairment is a progressive decline that impairs function in at least two areas, including attention, executive function, language, memory, and visual-spatial function; it is best measured with assessment examinations, such as the Mini-Cog and the Mini–Mental State Examination, rather than laboratory testing or imaging.

This patient would most benefit from evaluation with the Mini-Cog test or another validated screening test for cognitive function. Cognitive impairment is a progressive decline that impairs function in at least two areas: attention, executive function, language, memory, or visual-spatial function. Patients with signs and symptoms of cognitive impairment, such as this patient who reports difficulty with both memory and executive function, should undergo evaluation. A variety of validated tools are available to assess cognitive function. Among the free tools, the Montreal Cognitive Assessment and Mini-Cog test have been validated in primary care populations; these instruments screen for impairments in executive function. Self-administered instruments, such as the Self-Administered Gerocognitive Examination and Test Your Memory examination, have been validated in memory clinic populations to detect mild cognitive impairment and early dementia. Although the Mini–Mental State Examination has been the most extensively studied screening instrument, it is now proprietary, with a cost per use.
Although numerous factors have been studied, and some have been associated with a higher risk for progression to dementia (such as baseline functional impairment, abnormal results of fluorodeoxyglucose-PET brain imaging, and the apolipoprotein E [APOE-ε4] genotype), no reliable clinical markers can predict the clinical likelihood that an individual patient with mild cognitive impairment will develop dementia. More importantly, these tests do not establish the diagnosis of cognitive impairment.
In clinical practice, a careful history and results of a standard mental examination are often sufficient to diagnose cognitive impairment, and extensive formal cognitive testing is not routinely required. Occasionally, a formal battery of neuropsychologic testing beyond the standard mental examination is needed to distinguish particularly mild cases of cognitive impairment from normal aging.

**Bibliography**

Lin JS, O’Connor E, Rossom RC, Perdue LA, Eckstrom E. Screening for cognitive impairment in older adults: a systematic review for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Ann Intern Med. 2013;159:601-12. PMID: 24145578

This content was last updated in August 2018.