
### Correct Answer: C) Cervical sprain 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose cervical sprain.

#### **Key Point:** Pain associated with cervical sprain is usually an aching sensation that is isolated to the neck but can radiate to the posterior head or shoulders; physical examination usually shows decreased range of motion, tenderness to palpation, and reproduction of the pain with flexion or extension, but no neurologic findings.

This patient most likely has a cervical sprain (nonspecific or axial neck pain), which is the most common cause of neck pain. The pain associated with cervical sprain is usually an aching sensation that is isolated to the neck, but it can radiate to the posterior head or shoulders. The pain does not typically radiate into the arms. Cervical sprain symptoms can be precipitated by an unaccustomed activity or overuse. Physical examination of the neck usually shows decreased range of motion, tenderness to palpation, and reproduction of the pain with flexion or extension. The condition is also notable for the absence of abnormal neurologic findings.
Cervical myelopathy (compression of the cervical spinal cord) can also cause neck pain. Common clinical manifestations include progressive worsening of symptoms, difficulty with fine object manipulation and manual dexterity, and gait abnormalities. This patient's symptoms are not consistent with cervical myelopathy.
Cervical radiculopathy is caused by disk herniation or bony degeneration causing compression of adjacent nerve roots; it is characterized by neck pain associated with radiating arm pain and paresthesias that follow a dermatomal distribution. On examination, affected patients frequently have reproduction of their pain with the Spurling test (examiner bends the patient's head to the affected side while extending the neck and applying a downward pressure on the top of the head). Symptoms can be improved by holding the patient's hand on the affected side above the patient's head (shoulder abduction test). This patient's presentation is not consistent with cervical radiculopathy.
Whiplash-associated neck pain is a poorly understood entity that refers to cervical sprain that develops in the setting of trauma, such as a car accident, which produces an abrupt flexion/extension movement of the cervical spine. Typical symptoms include persistent severe pain, spasm, loss of range of motion in the neck, and occipital headache. Because this patient's neck pain did not result from direct abrupt flexion/extension trauma, it would be incorrect to classify it as whiplash-associated neck pain.

**Bibliography**

Cohen SP. Epidemiology, diagnosis, and treatment of neck pain. Mayo Clin Proc. 2015;90:284-99. PMID: 25659245 doi:10.1016/j.mayocp.2014.09.008

This content was last updated in August 2018.