
### Correct Answer: C) Medically unexplained symptom 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose a patient with a medically unexplained symptom.

#### **Key Point:** Medically unexplained symptoms are diagnosed according to the presence of symptoms that cannot be attributed to a specific medical cause after a thorough medical evaluation.

This patient most likely has a medically unexplained symptom. Such symptoms cannot be attributed to a specific medical cause after a thorough medical evaluation. Symptoms that are common in these patients include fatigue, headache, abdominal pain, musculoskeletal pain (back pain, myalgia, and arthralgia), dizziness, paresthesia, generalized weakness, transient edema, insomnia, dyspnea, chest pain, chronic facial pain, chronic pelvic pain, and chemical sensitivities. Symptoms can range from a minor nuisance to functional impairment. In this case, the patient's symptom does not appear to have a pathologic basis, and she is not excessively focused on or functionally limited by her symptom. As such, this patient would most appropriately be diagnosed with a medically unexplained symptom.
Conversion disorder involves at least one symptom of neurologic dysfunction (abnormal sensation or motor function) that is unexplained by a medical condition and not consistent with examination findings. Conversion disorder represents not fabrication of symptoms but rather unexplained symptoms that do not have a pathophysiologic basis. These symptoms, which are functionally limiting, occur during times of substantial physical, emotional, or psychological stress.
Illness anxiety disorder (formerly named hypochondriasis) is characterized by excessive concern about health and preoccupation with health-related activities (for example, measuring pulse). In patients with illness anxiety disorder, no or only mild somatic symptoms are present.
Somatic symptom disorder is characterized by one or more somatic symptoms present for at least 6 months, causing significant distress or interference with life and associated with excessive thoughts, behaviors, and feelings related to the symptoms. The diagnosis of somatic symptom disorder has replaced the previous diagnosis of somatization disorder.

**Bibliography**

Haller H, Cramer H, Lauche R, Dobos G. Somatoform disorders and medically unexplained symptoms in primary care. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2015;112:279-87. PMID: 25939319 doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2015.0279

This content was last updated in August 2018.