
### Correct Answer: C) Major depressive disorder 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose major depressive disorder.

#### **Key Point:** Major depressive disorder is diagnosed by the presence of at least five cardinal symptoms, at least one of which is depressed mood or anhedonia, during the same 2-week period; a tool for identifying and assessing the severity of depression is the PHQ-9.

This patient meets the diagnostic criteria for major depressive disorder. The DSM-5 requires at least five of the following symptoms (at least one of which must be depressed mood or anhedonia) to be present almost all of the time during the same 2-week period: depressed mood, anhedonia, insomnia or hypersomnia, significant change in weight or appetite, fatigue or decreased energy, psychomotor agitation or retardation, difficulty concentrating, feelings of worthlessness or excessive guilt, and recurrent thoughts of death or suicidal ideation. Symptoms of major depressive disorder cause work-related and social impairment and cannot be attributed to a medical condition, drug, or substance use. A tool for identifying and assessing the severity of depression is the PHQ-9 (). The items of the PHQ-9 correlate with the DSM-5 criteria. Each item is scored from 0 (not bothered by the symptom) to 3 (bothered by the symptom every day); the maximum score is 27. A score of 5 to 9 indicates mild depression, 10 to 14 moderate depression, 15 to 19 moderately severe depression, and 20 or more severe depression.
Patients with bipolar disorder often present with major depressive disorder, and it is important for clinicians to inquire about any history of periods of elevated mood, increased energy, and decreased need for sleep. Without a history of such episodes, bipolar disorder cannot be diagnosed.
Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) and other anxiety disorders can often be comorbid with major depressive disorder. Patients with GAD often experience sweats, dyspnea, palpitations, difficulty swallowing, nausea, chest and abdominal pain, loose stools, muscle tension, insomnia, fatigue, tachycardia, and tremor. Diagnosis should be considered in patients with multiple unexplained physical symptoms. This patient does not exhibit the excessive anxiety and restlessness typical of a patient with GAD.
Persistent depressive disorder, previously known as dysthymic disorder or dysthymia, is characterized by depressed mood most of the time for at least 2 years and with at least two of the following symptoms while depressed: appetite change (increased or decreased), fatigue or low energy, decreased self-esteem, insomnia or hypersomnia, poor concentration, and feelings of hopelessness. The symptoms are less severe than in major depressive disorder. This patient has more severe symptoms that have lasted only 6 months, with no history of depression.

**Bibliography**

McCarron RM, Vanderlip ER, Rado J. Depression. Ann Intern Med. 2016;165:ITC49-ITC64. PMID: 27699401

This content was last updated in August 2018.