
### Correct Answer: D) Systemic exertion intolerance disease 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose systemic exertion intolerance disease.

#### **Key Point:** The diagnosis of systemic exertion intolerance disease requires the presence of fatigue of at least 6 months' duration with substantial reduction in preillness activities, postexertional malaise, unrefreshing sleep, and either cognitive impairment or orthostatic intolerance.

The most likely diagnosis is systemic exertion intolerance disease (SEID). Fatigue can be classified as fatigue secondary to another cause, secondary to multiple factors (termed chronic multifactorial fatigue), or a primary condition. In the past, the latter condition was termed chronic fatigue syndrome, myalgic encephalitis, or neurasthenia. In 2015, the Institute of Medicine recommended using the term systemic exertion intolerance disease over the other terms. The diagnosis of SEID requires the presence of (1) substantial reduction or impairment in the ability to engage in preillness levels of occupational, educational, social, or personal activities for at least 6 months, accompanied by profound fatigue that is not relieved by rest; (2) postexertional malaise (worsening of symptoms after physical, cognitive, or emotional effort); and (3) unrefreshing sleep. In addition to the three major criteria, the patient must also demonstrate cognitive impairment or orthostatic intolerance (symptoms such as lightheadedness, dizziness, fatigue, cognitive deficits, and visual difficulties that worsen when a person stands upright and improve when the person lies back down). This patient meets the validated diagnostic criteria for SEID.
Chronic multifactorial fatigue is a clinical condition defined as chronic fatigue symptoms of at least 6 months' duration in the setting of multiple fatiguing factors (medical and/or psychosocial). This patient's benign history and unrevealing evaluation argue against chronic multifactorial fatigue.
Mood disturbances are highly comorbid in patients with SEID (approximately 70% of patients), and all patients with SEID should be screened for depression and anxiety. This patient was screened appropriately and does not have findings consistent with an underlying mood disorder.
Post–Lyme disease syndrome has been reported in approximately 10% of patients after treatment of erythema migrans. Although the condition is often erroneously called chronic Lyme disease, studies have found no microbiologic evidence of chronic or latent infection after appropriate treatment. Symptoms include fatigue, arthralgia, myalgia, and impairment of memory or cognition that can last for years after treatment of the acute infection. Clinical trials have shown no benefit of prolonged antibiotic treatment for post–Lyme disease syndrome. This patient has unrefreshing sleep, postexertional malaise, and orthostatic intolerance, which are more consistent with SEID.

**Bibliography**

Committee on the Diagnostic Criteria for Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, Board on the Health of Select Populations, Institute of Medicine. Beyond Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome: Redefining an Illness. Washington, DC: National Academies Press; 2015. PMID: 25695122

This content was last updated in August 2018.