
### Correct Answer: B) Pain relief with testicular elevation 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose epididymitis by physical examination.

#### **Key Point:** A positive Prehn sign (relief of pain with scrotal elevation) suggests a diagnosis of epididymitis, although it does not rule out other possibilities, such as testicular torsion.

This patient is most likely to have pain relief with testicular elevation (Prehn sign). His history and examination findings (erythema and swelling of the hemiscrotum; fever; tenderness to palpation near the epididymis; and lack of worsening symptoms, nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain) suggest a diagnosis of epididymitis. Prehn sign, which is alleviation of pain with elevation of the testicle or scrotum, can clinically support this diagnosis. Although this finding can suggest a diagnosis of epididymitis, it does not rule out other possibilities, such as testicular torsion; however, testicular torsion is less likely given this patient's presentation.
An absent cremasteric reflex suggests testicular torsion. A patient with testicular torsion would have acutely worsening and severe hemiscrotal pain, hemiscrotum elevation, abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting. These findings are not present in this patient, and the test result would likely be negative.
Varicoceles are caused by dilation of the testicular vein and pampiniform plexus. They are common, occurring in 15% of men. Scrotal examination reveals a left-sided (90%) scrotal mass with a “bag of worms” consistency that increases with standing and decreases while supine. This patient's findings are not consistent with varicocele, and examining the patient in both standing and supine positions is unlikely to support this diagnosis.
A transillumination study, which is performed to identify a hydrocele, is not likely to have a positive result in this patient with findings that suggest epididymitis. A hydrocele manifests over a longer time frame, initially causing no symptoms and then causing a dull aching scrotal discomfort. Examination can reveal a smooth though tense scrotal mass, which transilluminates when a light source is applied adjacently.

**Bibliography**

Crawford P, Crop JA. Evaluation of scrotal masses. Am Fam Physician. 2014;89:723-7. PMID: 24784335

This content was last updated in August 2018.