
### Correct Answer: D) Ibuprofen 

**Educational Objective:** Treat chronic low back pain with an NSAID.

#### **Key Point:** For patients with chronic low back pain, clinicians and patients should initially select nonpharmacologic treatment; NSAIDs can be considered in patients who have had an inadequate response to nonpharmacologic therapy.

The most appropriate pharmacologic option for this patient is an NSAID, such as ibuprofen. For patients with chronic low back pain, clinicians and patients should initially select nonpharmacologic treatment with acupuncture, cognitive behavioral therapy, electromyography biofeedback, exercise, mindfulness-based stress reduction (moderate-quality evidence), low-level laser therapy, motor control exercise, multidisciplinary rehabilitation, progressive relaxation, operant therapy or spinal manipulation, tai chi, or yoga. According to a 2017 clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians (ACP), pharmacologic therapy can be considered in patients with chronic low back pain that has not responded to nonpharmacologic therapy. The ACP recommends NSAIDs as first-line therapy, administered in the lowest effective dosage.
There is little evidence that acetaminophen is effective in reducing pain or improving functional status in patients with acute or chronic low back pain. As such, acetaminophen should not be recommended to this patient.
The FDA recently approved duloxetine for treating chronic low back pain on the basis of evidence from randomized controlled trials that showed a small improvement in both pain and function with its use. However, the ACP guideline deems both duloxetine and tramadol as second-line pharmacologic options (weak recommendation, moderate-quality evidence), reserved for use only after first-line options have been exhausted.
In a randomized controlled trial, opioids, such as hydrocodone, were not more effective than nonopioid therapy in treating chronic low back pain. Opioids should be used only in the treatment of chronic pain when the benefits outweigh the risks (such as abuse potential) and when a clear discussion of risks and benefits has occurred with the patient. This patient is unlikely to benefit from hydrocodone therapy.
Moderate-quality evidence showed that tramadol resulted in moderate short-term pain relief in patients with chronic low back pain and a small improvement in function compared with placebo. Of note, tramadol is a weak opioid agonist that also blocks reuptake of serotonin and norepinephrine; like other opioids, it is associated with the risk for abuse. Its use is relegated to patients who achieve inadequate relief with nonpharmacologic therapy and NSAIDs, and only after a frank discussion of the harms and benefits.

**Bibliography**

Qaseem A, Wilt TJ, McLean RM, Forciea MA; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the American College of Physicians. Noninvasive treatments for acute, subacute, and chronic low back pain: a clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians. Ann Intern Med. 2017;166:514-530. PMID: 28192789

This content was last updated in August 2018.