
### Correct Answer: D) Perform nasal endoscopy 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate recurrent epistaxis.

#### **Key Point:** Recurrent unilateral epistaxis may be a sign of neoplasm and warrants referral for nasal endoscopy.

The most appropriate management is nasal endoscopy. Ninety percent of episodes of epistaxis occur in the anterior nasal septum in the Kiesselbach area. Anterior bleeding can be managed with compression for at least 5 minutes. Posterior epistaxis (behind the posterior middle turbinate, requiring a nasopharyngoscope for visualization) may be more difficult to manage and is more common in older patients. Common causes of epistaxis include topical intranasal medications (such as glucocorticoids or antihistamines), dehumidification, and self-induced digital trauma. Among patients with epistaxis serious enough to require hospitalization, almost half have a causal systemic condition, such as anticoagulation, hemophilia, hematologic malignancy, neoplasm, and acquired coagulopathies from kidney or liver disease. Recurrent unilateral epistaxis may represent a neoplasm; hence, this patient should be referred for nasal endoscopy.
Low-dose aspirin may be associated with a slight increase in the risk for epistaxis, although data have not been conclusive and do not support routine discontinuation in otherwise healthy patients with epistaxis. Notably, other NSAIDs have not been associated with epistaxis. Even if aspirin were stopped, this patient requires further assessment given the presence of unilateral bleeding.
This patient has no symptoms of anemia or history of excessive blood loss. Although epistaxis may be associated with coagulopathies, this patient is not taking an anticoagulant and is otherwise at low risk for an acquired coagulopathy that manifests only as epistaxis. Therefore, coagulation studies are not warranted.
In 80% of patients with epistaxis, results of laboratory evaluation are normal; therefore, routine laboratory testing is not required. A complete blood count, prothrombin time, and activated partial thromboplastin time might be considered in patients with symptoms or signs of a bleeding disorder and those with severe or recurrent epistaxis.

**Bibliography**

Morgan DJ, Kellerman R. Epistaxis: evaluation and treatment. Prim Care. 2014;41:63-73. PMID: 24439881 doi:10.1016/j.pop.2013.10.007

This content was last updated in October 2020.