
### Correct Answer: D) Use a Plan-Do-Study-Act cycle 

**Educational Objective:** Identify the Plan-Do-Study-Act cycle as an effective quality improvement method.

#### **Key Point:** A Plan-Do-Study-Act cycle is a four-step process involving a rapid cycle of change in which baseline data are collected, an intervention is planned and then implemented on a small scale, the results are analyzed, and an action plan is made.

The most likely intervention to improve hand hygiene in this hospital is to use a Plan-Do-Study-Act (PDSA) cycle. A PDSA cycle is a four-step process involving a rapid cycle of change in which baseline data are collected, an intervention is planned and then implemented on a small scale, the results are analyzed, and an action plan is made. Additional PDSA cycles are completed until the desired results are achieved. In this case, a PDSA cycle could be used to study hand hygiene procedures and implement interventions to increase rates of hand hygiene, with the overall goal of reducing the incidence of hospital-acquired infections.
Spaghetti diagrams are used to visually display flow through a system. The flows are drawn as lines on a map and look similar to spaghetti noodles. As an example, a spaghetti diagram may be used to follow a medication order through a hospital unit from order generation to administration of the medication. The diagram can help highlight inefficiencies or redundancies in a system. Although useful in identifying areas ripe for increased efficiency, a spaghetti diagram will have no impact on improving hand hygiene rates.
The Lean model aims to maximize value and minimize waste by closely examining a system's processes and eliminating non–value-added activities within the system. Value stream mapping can be used to graphically display the steps of a process and the time required for each step, thereby highlighting process inefficiencies or areas of waste and allowing for their improvement. The Lean model could be used to determine inefficiencies in hospital processes (such as waiting times); however, it would not help improve hand hygiene rates.
Reiterating the importance of hand hygiene in an email to the entire staff may be a part of a planned intervention to improve hand hygiene, although it alone is unlikely to provide sustained results.

**Bibliography**

Morelli MS. Using the Plan, Do, Study, Act Model to implement a quality improvement program in your practice. Am J Gastroenterol. 2016;111:1220-2. PMID: 27527744

This content was last updated in August 2018.