
### Correct Answer: D) Quetiapine 

**Educational Objective:** Identify medications associated with increased risk for side effects in an older patient.

#### **Key Point:** Frequent review of patient medications to verify their necessity and proper dosing is an essential aspect of optimal geriatric care.

Quetiapine is the medication with greatest potential for adverse effects in this older patient taking multiple prescription medications. Although treatment of comorbid conditions often requires multiple medications, evidence shows that half of older adults take one or more medications that are not medically necessary (that is, not indicated, not effective, or therapeutically duplicative). Frequent review of patient medications to verify their necessity and proper dosing is an essential aspect of optimal geriatric care. Notably, certain medications carry a particularly high risk for geriatric patients. In an effort to improve the care of older adults by reducing the use of potentially inappropriate medications, the American Geriatrics Society (AGS) has compiled a list of high-risk drugs that must be carefully considered in terms of risk-to-benefit ratio in the elderly (available at ). All antipsychotic medications, both first- and second-generation, have significant adverse effects, including anticholinergic effects, extrapyramidal symptoms, and sedation, and older patients are particularly susceptible to these negative effects. For this reason, the AGS 2015 Beers Criteria for Potentially Inappropriate Medication Use in Older Adults recommends avoidance of quetiapine and all antipsychotic medications.
Acetaminophen is relatively safe for older patients if not used at maximal doses for extended periods. Side effects from acetaminophen are far less likely and less severe than other commonly used systemic analgesics, including opioids and NSAIDs.
Amlodipine is not listed as a medication to avoid in the AGS 2015 Beers Criteria. Although the drug could potentially cause excessive blood pressure reduction, this patient's blood pressure is under acceptable control and without orthostatic changes.
Lisinopril can potentially cause electrolyte abnormalities, orthostatic hypotension, and kidney insufficiency. However, this patient has no evidence of these problems, and lisinopril is not included in the Beers Criteria as a potentially inappropriate medication.

**Bibliography**

The American Geriatrics Society 2015 Beers Criteria Update Expert Panel. American Geriatrics Society 2015 updated Beers criteria for potentially inappropriate medication use in older adults. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2015;63:2227-46. PMID: 26446832 doi:10.1111/jgs.13702

This content was last updated in August 2018.