
### Correct Answer: B) Opioid-induced hyperalgesia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose opioid-induced hyperalgesia.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with opioid-induced hyperalgesia, the character of their pain may change during the course of opioid therapy, pain may worsen with increased opioid dosages, and pain may decrease when opioid dosages are reduced.

The most likely diagnosis is opioid-induced hyperalgesia. Opioid-induced hyperalgesia is thought to result from repeated exposure to systemic opioids. In patients with this pain syndrome, the character of their pain may change during the course of opioid therapy, pain may worsen with increased opioid dosages, and pain may decrease when opioid dosages are reduced. In this case, the patient has chronic pain as a sequela of her cancer diagnosis and treatment, and she has required significant dosage escalation in the absence of progressive disease. She also has evidence of cognitive slowing, hyperreflexia, and myoclonus as a result of the neuroexcitatory effects of long-term opioid use; these signs are concerning for opioid-induced toxicity. Appropriate management of opioid-induced hyperalgesia includes opioid dosage reduction in a monitored setting with close follow-up.
Malingering is characterized by the development of symptoms that lack a pathologic basis. The key feature is faking or exaggerating symptoms for an obvious external benefit, such as money, drugs, or escaping criminal prosecution. Malingering should be suspected in patients with inconsistencies in the history and physical examination; nonadherence to recommended diagnostic testing or treatments; known or suspected personality disorder; and legal difficulties. There is no indication of these traits to suggest malingering as the cause of this patient's symptoms.
Opioid withdrawal is unlikely in this patient given her constant symptoms and escalation in the dosages of hydromorphone and transdermal fentanyl.
Pseudoaddiction is a phenomenon in which patients exhibit behaviors concerning for substance use disorder or addiction that are driven by inadequate pain control in the setting of a documented progressive disease. Although this patient has a sequela of cancer therapy, her clinical status is unchanged, and there is no evidence of progressive disease on physical examination or CT scan.

**Bibliography**

Yi P, Pryzbylkowski P. Opioid induced hyperalgesia. Pain Med. 2015;16 Suppl 1:S32-6. PMID: 26461074 doi: 10.1111/pme.12914

This content was last updated in August 2018.