
### Correct Answer: D) Withhold clopidogrel now; continue aspirin 

**Educational Objective:** Manage dual antiplatelet therapy in a patient with recent coronary stent placement who is undergoing urgent noncardiac surgery.

#### **Key Point:** In patients taking dual antiplatelet therapy, if the risk of surgical delay exceeds the risk for stent thrombosis, discontinuation of the P2Y12 inhibitor can be considered after a minimum of 30 days in the case of bare metal stent placement or 3 months after drug-eluting stent placement.

The most appropriate management of this patient's antiplatelet therapy is to withhold clopidogrel 5 to 7 days before surgery and continue aspirin. According to the 2016 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association focused update on the duration of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT), perioperative management is based on surgical bleeding risk balanced with the risk for stent thrombosis. The risk for stent thrombosis is contingent on both the indication for coronary stent placement (stable ischemic heart disease [SIHD] or acute coronary syndrome [ACS]) and the amount of time that has passed from the time of stent placement.
For patients who have a stent placed for SIHD, DAPT (aspirin plus a P2Y12 inhibitor) should be continued for at least 30 days after bare metal stent placement and a minimum of 6 months after drug-eluting stent placement. DAPT is recommended for 1 year in patients with ACS, regardless of medical management or cardiac stent placement, with the understanding that discontinuation may be reasonable if high bleeding risk is identified or the patient has overt bleeding on DAPT. However, in the perioperative setting, and especially if the risk of surgical delay exceeds the risk for stent thrombosis, discontinuation of the P2Y12 inhibitor can be considered after a minimum of 30 days in the case of bare metal stent placement or 3 months after drug-eluting stent placement. It is optimal to continue DAPT for 6 months after drug-eluting stent placement, especially in the case of ACS, if the risk for surgical delay does not exceed the risk for stent thrombosis. Aspirin should be continued, if at all possible, along with restarting of DAPT as soon as bleeding risk has sufficiently diminished.
If surgery must be performed within those periods after percutaneous coronary intervention, DAPT should be maintained perioperatively unless the risk for major bleeding exceeds the risk for stent thrombosis. Communication with the surgical team and the patient regarding risks and benefits of withholding DAPT within these time frames is advised.

**Bibliography**

Levine GN, Bates ER, Bittl JA, Brindis RG, Fihn SD, Fleisher LA, et al. 2016 ACC/AHA guideline focused update on duration of dual antiplatelet therapy in patients with coronary artery disease: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2016;68:1082-115. PMID: 27036918

This content was last updated in August 2018.