
### Correct Answer: A) Discuss the benefits and harms of screening 

**Educational Objective:** Engage a patient in shared decision making for prostate cancer screening.

#### **Key Point:** The decision to pursue prostate cancer screening should be individualized so that each man has an opportunity to understand the potential benefits and harms of screening and to incorporate his values and preferences into his decision.

The most appropriate action is to first engage the patient in a discussion of the benefits and harms of prostate cancer screening. No organization recommends prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing for prostate cancer screening without a discussion of the benefits and harms and a patient's clear expressed preference for screening. Clinicians should inform men about the limited potential benefits and substantial harms of screening for prostate cancer. Screening offers a small potential benefit of reducing the chance of dying of prostate cancer. However, many men will experience potential harms of screening, including false-positive results that require additional testing and possible prostate biopsy; overdiagnosis and overtreatment; and treatment complications, such as incontinence and impotence. All organizations recommend individualized decision making about screening for prostate cancer so that each man has an opportunity to incorporate his values and preferences into his decision. On the basis of the available evidence, it is not possible to make a definitive recommendation for or against prostate cancer screening in men with a family history of prostate cancer. Although screening may offer additional potential benefits for these men compared with the general population, screening also has the potential to increase exposure to potential harms, especially among men with relatives whose cancer was overdiagnosed.
Although some expert groups recommend performing a digital rectal examination in conjunction with PSA testing for prostate cancer screening, digital rectal examination alone is not recommended because this test has suboptimal sensitivity and very low positive predictive value.
The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends that clinicians should not screen men who do not express a preference for screening and recommends against PSA-based screening for prostate cancer in men aged 70 years and older.

**Bibliography**

Grossman DC, Curry SJ, Owens DK, Bibbins-Domingo K, Caughey AB, Davidson KW, et al; US Preventive Services Task Force. Screening for prostate cancer: US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement. JAMA. 2018;319:1901-1913. PMID: 29801017 doi:10.1001/jama.2018.3710

This content was last updated in August 2018.