
### Correct Answer: E) Symptom explanation and reassurance 

**Educational Objective:** Manage audible oropharyngeal secretions in a patient at the end of life.

#### **Key Point:** Audible posterior oropharyngeal secretions (“death rattle”) are common at the end of life and are best managed with family education and reassurance.

This patient has audible posterior oropharyngeal secretions, which are most appropriately managed with family education and reassurance. Although several studies suggest that respiratory distress is not typically associated with these secretions, caregivers are often concerned by what is commonly referred to as the “death rattle.” The first steps in management include caregiver education and anticipatory guidance. Additionally, repositioning often allows secretions to drain without pharmacologic intervention. Mouth hygiene with a sponge swab may also be helpful.
Current literature does not support the routine use of antimuscarinic drugs in the treatment of death rattle. A 2014 literature review acknowledged that death rattle leads to distress in both relatives and professional caregivers; however, its impact on patients is unclear, and medical therapy is unproven. Studies involving atropine, glycopyrronium, scopolamine, hyoscine butylbromide, and/or octreotide were reviewed, and only one study used a placebo group. There is currently no evidence that the use of any antimuscarinic drug is superior to no treatment. In addition, the use of anticholinergic agents in patients who are awake can lead to undesirable symptoms, such as dry mouth and urinary retention.
Suctioning by catheter should be avoided in managing end-of-life secretions unless the secretions are causing the patient obvious respiratory distress or cough. Suction catheters can cause local trauma.

**Bibliography**

Lokker ME, van Zuylen L, van der Rijt CC, van der Heide A. Prevalence, impact, and treatment of death rattle: a systematic review. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2014;47:105-22. PMID: 23790419 doi:10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2013.03.011

This content was last updated in August 2018.