
### Correct Answer: D) 23-Valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine 

**Educational Objective:** Vaccinate an adult smoker against pneumococcal disease.

#### **Key Point:** The 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine should be administered to select immunocompetent patients aged 19 to 64 years, including those with chronic heart, liver, or lung disease; diabetes mellitus; cochlear implants; cerebrospinal fluid leak; alcoholism; or cigarette smoking.

This patient should be administered the 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV23). Pneumococcal vaccination is recommended in all adults aged 65 years and older and adults aged 19 to 64 years with certain high-risk conditions. Two pneumococcal vaccines are available: PPSV23 and a 13-valent conjugate vaccine (PCV13). The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommends administering PPSV23 alone to select immunocompetent patients aged 19 to 64 years, including those with chronic heart, liver, or lung disease; diabetes mellitus; cochlear implants; cerebrospinal fluid leak; alcoholism; or cigarette smoking. Because this patient is a current smoker, he should be given PPSV23.
In adults aged 19 to 64 years with immunocompromise, cochlear implants, or a history of cerebrospinal fluid leaks, PCV13 should be administered in addition to PPSV23. In these patients, a single dose of PCV13 should be given first, followed by a single dose of PPSV23 at least 8 weeks later. All adults aged 65 years and older who have not previously been vaccinated should be considered for PCV13 in addition to PPSV23, and patients should be engaged in a shared decision-making discussion. If given, PCV13 should be given first followed by a dose of PPSV23 1 year later. For immunocompetent adults aged 65 years and older who previously received one or more doses of PPSV23, a single dose of PCV13 should be given at least 1 year after the most recent PPSV23 dose. This patient does not meet the criteria for PCV13 administration.
All adults aged 50 years and older, including those with a previous episode of zoster, should receive the recombinant (inactivated) zoster vaccine to reduce the incidence of zoster and postherpetic neuralgia. The recombinant zoster vaccine is recommended in preference to the live attenuated zoster vaccine, and adults who have been previously vaccinated with the live attenuated zoster vaccine should be revaccinated with the recombinant zoster vaccine after a period of at least 8 weeks. This patient should receive the recombinant zoster vaccine in 2 years.
In persons who previously received the tetanus toxoid, reduced diphtheria toxoid, and acellular pertussis (Tdap) vaccine, revaccination with a tetanus and diphtheria toxoids (Td) booster is recommended every 10 years. Additionally, for pregnant women, one dose of the Tdap vaccine should be administered during each pregnancy between 27 weeks' and 36 weeks' gestation, regardless of when the last dose of Td or Tdap was given. This patient last received the Tdap vaccine 9 years ago and should receive a Td booster in 1 year.
Given the patient's history of cigarette smoking, offering no vaccinations at this time would not be the best strategy.

**Bibliography**

Kim DK, Riley LE, Hunter P; Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. Recommended immunization schedule for adults aged 19 years or older, United States, 2018. Ann Intern Med. 2018;168:210-220. PMID: 29404596

This content was last updated in October 2020.