
### Correct Answer: B) Binge eating disorder 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose binge eating disorder.

#### **Key Point:** The diagnosis of binge eating disorder requires at least three of the following characteristics occurring at least once weekly for 3 months: abnormally rapid consumption, consuming large amounts of food when not hungry, eating alone due to embarrassment, eating until uncomfortably full, and feelings of guilt related to overconsumption.

This patient most likely has binge eating disorder (BED), which is characterized by impulsive overeating and feeling loss of control around food. The diagnosis of this disorder requires at least three of the following characteristics occurring at least once weekly for 3 months: abnormally rapid consumption, consuming large amounts of food when not hungry, eating alone due to embarrassment, eating until uncomfortably full, and feelings of guilt related to overconsumption. BED is more common than both anorexia and bulimia nervosa and is often accompanied by other psychiatric problems. The primary treatment is cognitive behavioral therapy.
Bulimia nervosa and the binging subtype of anorexia nervosa both include episodes of binge eating like BED. The key in differentiating BED from these diseases is the lack of compensatory behaviors (such as induced vomiting and laxative abuse) to avoid weight gain. The major difference between bulimia nervosa and the binging subtype of anorexia nervosa is that patients with anorexia nervosa have a low BMI (usually <18).
Many people have episodes of overeating in which they may eat until uncomfortable or feel guilty about their eating. However, simple overeating does not meet the diagnostic criteria for BED and is not accompanied by the feelings of loss of control over food consumption.

**Bibliography**

Attia E. In the clinic. Eating disorders. Ann Intern Med. 2012;156:ITC4-1–ITC4-15, quiz ITC4-16. PMID: 22473445

This content was last updated in August 2018.