
### Correct Answer: B) Advise use of a well-fitting bra 

**Educational Objective:** Manage cyclic mastalgia.

#### **Key Point:** Cyclic mastalgia is often related to hormonal changes that occur with ovulation, resulting in diffuse premenstrual breast pain that resolves with the menstrual cycle; the most appropriate management is education, reassurance, and appropriate breast support.

The most appropriate next step in this patient's management is the use of a well-fitting bra. Breast pain is common among women and is categorized primarily as cyclic or noncyclic in relation to the menstrual cycle. This patient has cyclic mastalgia, which is bilateral and diffuse and worsens in the days before menses and then abates. Cyclic mastalgia is often related to hormonal changes that occur with ovulation. Because most symptoms of cyclic mastalgia are self-limited, management usually requires only education, reassurance, and appropriate breast support.
There is no evidence from controlled studies that avoidance of caffeine in the diet or beverages relieves breast pain. Similarly, no evidence supports the use of vitamin E and evening primrose oil in reducing pain.
Cyclic mastalgia with no abnormal clinical findings, such as a breast mass or skin changes, does not warrant diagnostic imaging. Hence, ultrasonography and mammography are unnecessary in this patient.
Danazol is approved by the FDA for management of mastalgia, but because of limiting androgenic side effects, it is recommended only for management of persistent severe cyclic breast pain unrelieved by conservative management. If education, reassurance, and appropriate breast support do not sufficiently control symptoms, acetaminophen or an oral or topical NSAID may be useful and can be recommended before consideration of danazol therapy.

**Bibliography**

Iddon J, Dixon JM. Mastalgia. BMJ. 2013;347:f3288. PMID: 24336097 doi:10.1136/bmj.f3288

This content was last updated in August 2018.