
### Correct Answer: D) Vertebrobasilar ischemia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose central vertigo on the basis of Dix-Hallpike maneuver results.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with central vertigo, the Dix-Hallpike maneuver produces nystagmus with an immediate onset (no latency), longer duration (&gt;1 minute), no fatigability, and vertical or horizontal directionality without a torsional component.

The most likely diagnosis is vertebrobasilar ischemia. In patients with vertigo, it is crucial to differentiate central from peripheral causes, especially in patients with acute vertigo concerning for vertebrobasilar ischemia and other central causes. The Dix-Hallpike maneuver is an effective bedside test for this purpose. In this test, the examiner stands at the patient's side and rotates the patient's head 45 degrees; the examiner then moves the patient, whose eyes are open, from the seated to the supine ear-down position. The patient's neck is extended slightly so that the chin is pointed upward, and the patient is observed for nystagmus. During the test, the latency, duration, fatigability, and direction of nystagmus are noted. The maneuver is repeated with the patient's head turned in the opposite direction. Findings that indicate central vertigo are nystagmus with an immediate onset (no latency), longer duration (>1 minute), no fatigability, and vertical or horizontal directionality without a torsional component. With central vertigo, the direction of nystagmus may vary depending on the direction of the patient's gaze. Potentially life-threatening conditions associated with central vertigo include ischemia, infarction, or hemorrhage of the cerebellum or brainstem. Patients at high risk include those with hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, or advanced age. Vertebrobasilar stroke is usually, but not always, accompanied by dysarthria, dysphagia, diplopia, weakness, or numbness. Cerebellar infarct may present with gait or truncal ataxia or with vertigo alone. In a patient presenting with suspicion for a central cause of vertigo, brain MRI and magnetic resonance angiography of the posterior cerebral circulation are the preferred diagnostic studies.
Dix-Hallpike maneuver results that suggest peripheral vertigo include nystagmus that is delayed in onset (presence of latency), is of short duration (<1 minute), exhibits fatigability (habituation), and is primarily unidirectional (usually up-beating and torsional [rotary phenomenon]). The presence of severe symptoms also indicates peripheral vertigo. The most common cause of peripheral vertigo (and all types of vertigo) is benign paroxysmal positional vertigo. Vestibular neuronitis (or labyrinthitis, if hearing is affected), another cause of peripheral vertigo, may follow a viral syndrome that has affected the vestibular portion of cranial nerve VIII. Less common causes of peripheral vertigo are Meniere disease (triad of vertigo, hearing loss, and tinnitus), perilymphatic fistula (vertigo and hearing loss with history of straining or trauma), and acoustic neuroma (tinnitus and associated unilateral sensorineural hearing loss).
An additional bedside test that can be performed to help differentiate central from peripheral causes of vertigo is the HINTS (Head Impulse, Nystagmus, and Test of Skew) examination. Findings concerning for a central cause of vertigo are the absence of catch-up saccades on the head impulse test, bidirectional nystagmus on the nystagmus assessment, and the presence of vertical skew on the test of skew.

**Bibliography**

Kim JS, Zee DS. Clinical practice. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo. N Engl J Med. 2014;370:1138-47. PMID: 24645946 doi: 10.1056/NEJMcp1309481

This content was last updated in August 2018.