
### Correct Answer: B) Fluid aspiration 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate prepatellar bursitis.

#### **Key Point:** Prepatellar bursitis can be caused by repetitive trauma, infection, or gout; fluid aspiration and subsequent analysis should be performed in all patients.

This patient has prepatellar bursitis, and the first step in management should be fluid aspiration. Prepatellar bursitis is caused by inflammation of the prepatellar bursa that overlies the patella. Patients present with anterior knee pain and swelling. Physical examination reveals a palpable fluid collection with preserved active and passive range of motion of the knee. The most common cause of chronic prepatellar bursitis is repetitive trauma, as is likely the case in this patient, who must frequently kneel in his job as a carpet installer. Other causes include gout and infection. Most cases of acute prepatellar bursitis are infectious (typically related to skin bacteria), although trauma and gout are other potential causes. Regardless of the duration of the swelling, all patients with prepatellar bursitis should undergo fluid aspiration. Gram stain and culture of the bursal fluid should be obtained and analyzed for leukocyte count and for the presence of crystals to evaluate for the possibility of an underlying infectious cause and gout.
Prepatellar bursitis due to repetitive trauma from kneeling is managed with activity modification (avoidance of kneeling), in addition to the use of oral NSAIDs such as ibuprofen. It would be inappropriate to recommend activity modification or NSAIDs before first analyzing bursal fluid to rule out infection or gout.
Plain radiography is not usually required for the diagnosis of prepatellar bursitis. It may show soft-tissue swelling on lateral views but rarely aids in establishing the correct diagnosis. Plain radiographs should be obtained when knee osteoarthritis is suspected or there is concern for fracture, neither of which applies to this patient.
Prepatellar bursitis caused by gout is diagnosed by bursal fluid analysis and detecting monosodium urate crystals with polarized microscopy. A high serum urate level supports the potential for gout; however, most patients with hyperuricemia do not have gout, and the serum urate level may be low during some acute attacks. Therefore, it would be inappropriate to obtain a serum uric acid level in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Hong E, Kraft MC. Evaluating anterior knee pain. Med Clin North Am. 2014;98:697-717, xi. PMID: 24994047 doi:10.1016/j.mcna.2014.03.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.