
### Correct Answer: A) Advanced static mattress 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent a pressure injury in a patient with limited mobility.

#### **Key Point:** An advanced static mattress or mattress overlay made of specialized sheepskin, foam, or gel provides the best protection against the development of pressure injuries in hospitalized patients.

An advanced static mattress is the most appropriate intervention to prevent pressure injuries (also known as pressure ulcers) in this patient. Pressure injuries are common in hospitals and long-term care settings. They can result in decreased quality of life, with associated depression, impaired mobility, and social isolation. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services has selected the development of pressure ulcers as a sentinel health event (unexpected and preventable occurrence that results in serious patient injury) for health care facilities. Prevention of pressure injuries starts with identifying patients at risk. There are many standardized risk assessment tools, but evidence of whether these are superior to clinical judgment is inconclusive. Risk factors include advanced age, cognitive impairment, reduced mobility, sensory impairment, and comorbid conditions that affect skin integrity (such as low body weight, incontinence, edema, poor microcirculation, and hypoalbuminemia). Pressure redistribution is the most important factor in preventing pressure injuries through the use of pressure-reducing equipment and proper patient positioning. In 2015, the American College of Physicians (ACP) published a clinical practice guideline for risk assessment and prevention of pressure ulcers. The guideline recommends regular, structured risk assessment of patients and the use of an advanced static mattress or advanced static overlay for patients who are at increased risk. An advanced static mattress is made of specialized sheepskin, foam, or gel and is immobile when a patient lies on it, whereas an advanced static overlay is a pad composed of foam or gel that is secured to the top of a regular mattress.
The ACP guideline recommends against the use of alternating air mattresses because of lack of data showing a clear advantage as well as cost considerations.
There are limited data concerning the preventive effectiveness of frequent patient repositioning, dietary supplements (such as zinc, creams, or dressings), and silicone foam dressings as isolated interventions.

**Bibliography**

Qaseem A, Mir TP, Starkey M, Denberg TD; Clinical Guidelines Committee of the American College of Physicians. Risk assessment and prevention of pressure ulcers: a clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians. Ann Intern Med. 2015;162:359-69. PMID: 25732278

This content was last updated in August 2018.