
### Correct Answer: B) Harms and cost of treatment 

**Educational Objective:** Understand the limitations of the number needed to treat to inform clinical decision making.

#### **Key Point:** The acceptability of the number needed to treat as a means of comparing one treatment with another depends on the risks associated with the condition, the cost and side effects of the treatment, and other treatments available.

The harms and cost of treatment are needed to conclude that treatment A is superior to treatment B. When assessing the clinical impact of an intervention, the number needed to treat (NNT) provides a quantifiable measure of the treatment effect that is easily understood by physicians and patients; it represents the number of patients who must receive a treatment to cause one additional patient to benefit. The acceptability of the NNT as a means of comparing one treatment with another depends on the risks associated with the condition, the cost and side effects of the treatment, and other treatments available. When comparing one treatment with another, head-to-head comparisons provide the best evidence of superiority. In this head-to-head comparison of two treatments, the absolute risk reduction for heart failure–related hospitalizations is 6% with treatment A compared with treatment B. This translates to 17 patients (NNT = 1/absolute risk reduction) who need to receive treatment A to result in 1 less heart failure–related hospitalization compared with treatment B. Although this information is informative, other data, such as cost and harms, must be evaluated before a conclusion that treatment A is superior to treatment B can be reached. If harms are more frequent or more severe with treatment A, the reduction in hospitalization for heart failure may become clinically meaningless.
Confidence intervals (CIs) are a method for indicating the range in which a value derived from a study is likely to lie; narrower ranges imply greater confidence, or certainty, that the reported value is closer to the true value. The P value expresses the probability that the findings in a study can be explained by chance alone and represents the level of statistical significance. P values offer less information than do CIs because CIs can demonstrate the plausible range of values for an event or outcome, whereas P values indicate only statistical significance. Although CIs provide more precise information about the range of expected benefit, the P value and CI are of less importance than understanding the harms, costs, and alternative therapies that might be available.
A disadvantage of relative comparisons, including relative risk, is the potential for exaggerated outcomes. For instance, interventions that reduce the rate of an outcome from 40% to 20% or from 4% to 2% have a relative risk reduction of 50%. However, the absolute risk reduction for the first case is 20%, whereas the absolute risk reduction for the second case is 2%.

**Bibliography**

Citrome L, Ketter TA. When does a difference make a difference? Interpretation of number needed to treat, number needed to harm, and likelihood to be helped or harmed. Int J Clin Pract. 2013;67:407-11. PMID: 23574101 doi: 10.1111/ijcp.12142

This content was last updated in August 2018.