
### Correct Answer: A) At least annually 

**Educational Objective:** Screen for HIV infection in a high-risk patient.

#### **Key Point:** Sexually active gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men and injection drug users should be screened for HIV infection at least annually.

The most appropriate interval for HIV screening in this high-risk patient is at least annually. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends HIV screening for patients aged 15 to 65 years in all health care settings. The currently recommended method for initial testing is combination HIV antibody immunoassay/p24 antigen testing. An “opt-out” approach is preferred; patients are notified that testing will be performed but can decline. Special consent for testing is not required. HIV testing provides a “teachable moment” to conduct HIV/sexually transmitted infection (STI) prevention counseling and offer pre-exposure prophylaxis for high-risk patients. However, prevention counseling should not be a required activity because it can be perceived as a barrier to screening.
The USPSTF suggests that a reasonable approach is one-time screening of adolescent and adult patients and repeated screening of high-risk persons, persons engaged in risky behaviors, and those who reside in or receive medical care in high-prevalence settings for HIV infection. However, the USPSTF found insufficient evidence to determine appropriate or optimal time intervals or strategies for repeat HIV screening. Risk categories may change, and the USPSTF notes that rescreening may not be necessary for persons who have not been at increased risk since they were last tested. Women screened during a previous pregnancy should be rescreened in subsequent pregnancies.
In 2015, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended that providers should offer HIV screening at least annually to all sexually active MSM. Clinicians can also consider the potential benefits of more frequent HIV screening (such as every 3 or 6 months) for some asymptomatic sexually active MSM based on their individual risk factors, local HIV epidemiology, and local policies. The CDC also recommends yearly testing for syphilis, gonorrhea, and chlamydia in MSM; in contrast, the USPSTF has found insufficient evidence to recommend screening for these diseases in men.

**Bibliography**

DiNenno EA, Prejean J, Irwin K, Delaney KP, Bowles K, Martin T, et al. Recommendations for HIV screening of gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men - United States, 2017. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2017;66:830-832. PMID: 28796758

This content was last updated in March 2020.