
### Correct Answer: D) Simvastatin 

**Educational Objective:** Reduce cardiovascular risk with statin therapy in a patient without known atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.

#### **Key Point:** In patients aged 40 to 75 years with no atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) or diabetes mellitus and with a 10-year ASCVD risk of 7.5% or higher accompanied by the presence of ASCVD risk enhancers, the American Heart Association and American College of Cardiology recommend moderate-intensity statin therapy for primary prevention of ASCVD.

The most appropriate therapy for primary prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) in this patient is simvastatin. All patients at increased cardiovascular risk should be counseled regarding therapeutic lifestyle changes, including dietary modification, regular physical activity, weight loss, and smoking cessation. In addition to therapeutic lifestyle changes, the 2018 American Heart Association (AHA)/American College of Cardiology (ACC) Guideline on the Management of Blood Cholesterol recommends adding moderate-intensity statin therapy for primary prevention of ASCVD in adults aged 40 to 75 years without known ASCVD or diabetes mellitus if ASCVD risk is 7.5% to 19% and accompanied by the presence of ASCVD risk-enhancing factors. Risk-enhancing factors include elevated triglyceride level (≥175 mg/dL [1.98 mmol/L]), family history of ASCVD, LDL cholesterol level persistently at 160 mg/dL (4.14 mmol/L) or higher, metabolic syndrome, chronic kidney disease, premature menopause, chronic inflammatory disease, or high-risk ethnicity (South Asian). The decision to initiate statin therapy should occur after taking into account patient preferences, adverse effects, and expected ASCVD risk reduction. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends low- to moderate-intensity statin therapy in asymptomatic adults aged 40 to 75 years without ASCVD who have at least one ASCVD risk factor (dyslipidemia, diabetes, hypertension, or smoking) and a calculated 10-year ASCVD event risk of 10% or higher. This patient with a 10-year risk for ASCVD of 11.1% meets the criteria of both the AHA/ACC and USPSTF guidelines, and both guidelines support initiation of moderate-intensity statin therapy. Differing slightly, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and U.S. Department of Defense, in their 2020 joint clinical practice guideline for managing dyslipidemia to reduce cardiovascular risk, recommend moderate-intensity statin therapy for patients with a 10-year ASCVD risk of 12% or more, an LDL cholesterol level of 190 mg/dL (4.92 mmol/L) or higher, or diabetes.
In the absence of familial hypercholesterolemia or severe hypercholesterolemia despite treatment with maximally tolerated cholesterol-lowering therapy with a statin and ezetimibe, proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) inhibitors, such as alirocumab and evolocumab, are not indicated in the primary prevention of ASCVD. Cost, treatment burden (injections), and minimal long-term safety data argue against their use in primary prevention.
Nonstatin drugs should be considered alone or in combination with statins in patients who do not achieve adequate LDL cholesterol reduction with statin therapy, especially in high-risk patients (those with clinical ASCVD, baseline LDL cholesterol level >190 mg/dL [4.92 mmol/L], or diabetes). This patient does not have an indication for ezetimibe therapy alone or in combination with a statin.
In patients with a fasting triglyceride level of 500 mg/dL (5.65 mmol/L) or higher, triglyceride-lowering drug therapy is useful to prevent pancreatitis. Fibrates, such as gemfibrozil, result in an average reduction in triglyceride levels of 30% to 50%, but this patient does not have an indication for fibrate therapy.

**Bibliography**

Grundy SM, Stone NJ, Bailey AL, Beam C, Birtcher KK, Blumenthal RS, et al. 2018 AHA/ACC/AACVPR/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/ADA/AGS/APhA/ASPC/NLA/PCNA guideline on the management of blood cholesterol. Circulation. 2018:CIR0000000000000625. PMID: 30586774 doi:10.1161/CIR.0000000000000625

This content was last updated in March 2021.