
### Correct Answer: A) Explain that a colleague committed an error and steps will be taken to reduce the chance of recurrence 

**Educational Objective:** Disclose a medical error to an affected patient.

#### **Key Point:** Error disclosure should include an explanation of the course of events and how the error occurred, an apology by the physician, a description of how the effects of the error will be minimized or rectified, and steps the physician or system will take to reduce recurrences.

The most appropriate management is to explain to the patient that an error was committed and the steps that will be taken to reduce the chance of recurrence. This case involves the most common type of medical error, one related to inappropriate medication dosing. Current standards recommend full disclosure of serious unanticipated outcomes, and several states mandate such disclosures. Disclosure of errors is necessary to respect the patient's autonomy, promote trust through honesty, and promote justice through appropriate compensation. Error disclosure should include an explanation of the course of events and how the error occurred, an apology by the physician, a description of how the effects of the error will be minimized or rectified, and steps the physician or system will take to reduce recurrences. In this case, the physician should inform his or her colleague of the error, and they should work within the practice to explore factors that caused the error and determine ways to reduce errors in the future.
The pharmacy may have played a role in commission of the error; however, it would be inappropriate to deflect blame to another source. Communication with the pharmacy regarding the correct dosage would be important in rectifying the situation.
The National Practitioner Data Bank is a federal repository of reports regarding serious professional or safety concerns, including medical malpractice payments or serious actions taken against physicians (such as suspension of licensure or clinical privileges). The error in this case should be disclosed and investigated; however, it would not be appropriate to report to the National Practitioner Data Bank.
Although addressing this patient's symptom without disclosing that an error occurred is an attractive option, disclosure respects the patient's autonomy by providing her with information necessary to make an informed decision about her care. Furthermore, the disclosure may enhance physician-patient communication and trust. Data from health systems that implement medical error disclosure policies suggest that disclosure decreases malpractice lawsuits and litigation costs.

**Bibliography**

Snyder L; American College of Physicians Ethics, Professionalism, and Human Rights Committee. American College of Physicians ethics manual: sixth edition. Ann Intern Med. 2012;156:73-104. PMID: 22213573 doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-156-1-201201031-00001

This content was last updated in August 2018.