
### Correct Answer: B) Pregabalin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat chronic pelvic pain syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Treatment of chronic pelvic pain syndrome demands a multimodal approach, with options including both pharmacologic and nonpharmacologic strategies; among the pharmacologic options are neuromodulatory agents, such as pregabalin, gabapentin, and nortriptyline.

A trial of pregabalin is the most appropriate treatment for this patient with chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CPPS). CPPS is characterized by chronic pelvic pain and intermittent voiding symptoms without evidence of infection. Subtypes of this condition include inflammatory and noninflammatory forms. Treatment involves a multimodal approach; options include pharmacologic therapies (antibiotics, anti-inflammatory agents, α-blocking agents, 5α-reductase inhibitors, and neuromodulating agents) and nonpharmacologic strategies (biofeedback, cognitive behavioral therapy, and physical therapy). There is limited and conflicting evidence for thermal ablation therapies and direct surgical interventions. Despite these options, treatment can be challenging, with minimal rates of improvement. This patient has already attempted numerous medication regimens without symptomatic improvement. At this time, it would be most prudent to proceed with a neuromodulatory approach, with medications such as pregabalin, gabapentin, or nortriptyline. Nonpharmacologic options could also be recommended at this juncture.
No evidence supports the use of lidocaine-hydrocortisone suppositories in the treatment of CPPS.
This patient has already attempted numerous trials of antibiotics, anti-inflammatory agents, and α-blocking agents without any appreciable symptomatic improvement. Furthermore, the laboratory results do not reflect any evidence for an underlying active infection, systemic inflammation, or urinary retention. Consequently, a trial of tamsulosin or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole would not be appropriate.

**Bibliography**

Bharucha AE, Lee TH. Anorectal and pelvic pain. Mayo Clin Proc. 2016;91:1471-1486. PMID: 27712641

This content was last updated in August 2018.