
### Correct Answer: A) Cognitive behavioral therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat somatic symptom disorder.

#### **Key Point:** Treatment of somatic symptom disorder focuses on acknowledging the patient's symptoms, building a therapeutic relationship with the patient through frequent scheduled visits, implementing cognitive behavioral therapy, and avoiding further testing.

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is the most appropriate next step in management. This patient meets the diagnostic criteria for somatic symptom disorder: one or more somatic symptoms causing distress or interference with daily life; excessive thoughts, feelings, and behaviors related to the somatic symptoms; and persistence of somatic symptoms for at least 6 months. Furthermore, after thorough investigation, her symptoms have no identifiable organic source. In addition to acknowledging the patient's symptoms and establishing rapport through frequent scheduled follow-up visits, CBT is the best next step in management. Several studies have shown that CBT is superior to usual care, and the benefits are maintained after completion of therapy.
Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is the classic autoinflammatory disease associated with mutation of the MEFV1 gene, which codes for pyrin (a regulator of interleukin-1β production). Attacks last 1 to 3 days and are characterized by polyserositis, arthritis, erysipeloid rash around the ankles, and elevation of acute phase reactants. Most cases (90%) present before age 20 years, and a family history of similar symptoms is common. This patient's age of onset, chronic symptoms, and negative evaluation results, including acute phase reactant measurement, argue strongly against the diagnosis of FMF and the need to analyze the MEFV gene.
Pregabalin is an FDA-approved treatment for fibromyalgia and other conditions associated with neuropathic pain, such as diabetic peripheral neuropathy and postherpetic neuralgia. However, this patient does not have the fatigue and widespread musculoskeletal symptoms typical of fibromyalgia. Pregabalin has no role in the treatment of somatic symptom disorder.
Whole-body PET is not indicated in a patient without clinical evidence of malignancy. Furthermore, advanced diagnostic testing is not recommended in patients with somatic symptom disorder to provide technological reassurance. In addition to being cost ineffective, such testing may lead to false-positive results, triggering further unnecessary testing and patient stress.

**Bibliography**

Schröder A, Rehfeld E, Ornbøl E, Sharpe M, Licht RW, Fink P. Cognitive-behavioural group treatment for a range of functional somatic syndromes: randomised trial. Br J Psychiatry. 2012;200:499-507. PMID: 22539780 doi:10.1192/bjp.bp.111.098681

This content was last updated in August 2018.