
### Correct Answer: B) Oral hydromorphone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat dyspnea refractory to medical therapy in a patient with heart failure and COPD.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with severe refractory dyspnea, appropriately dosed oral opioids are first-line therapy for symptomatic relief.

The most appropriate treatment is oral hydromorphone. This patient has severe chronic dyspnea that is refractory to maximal therapy for his underlying heart failure and COPD. Oral opioids, dosed appropriately, have been found to be both safe and efficacious in the treatment of dyspnea. Treatment efficacy is thought to be related to modulation of shared neural structures that are involved in the pathogenesis of both pain and dyspnea, as there are numerous μ-opioid receptors throughout the respiratory centers in the central nervous system. No evidence suggests that one opioid is superior to another in the treatment of dyspnea, and agent selection should be based on individual patient considerations, such as avoidance of morphine products in patients with reduced kidney function.
Furosemide would be a reasonable selection in a patient with volume overload as the driver of dyspnea; however, this patient has no evidence to suggest this cause (such as an elevated central venous pressure, an S3, crackles, or peripheral edema).
Benzodiazepines, such as lorazepam, are effective for short-term control of anxiety symptoms. However, this patient's anxiety is a result of his shortness of breath, and as such, treatment should focus on relieving the dyspnea, not on treating the associated anxiety. For this reason, benzodiazepines should be considered only when adjunctive therapy is indicated.
Although systemic opioids have shown clear benefit in treating refractory dyspnea, inhaled opioids, such as nebulized morphine, have not shown significant efficacy in several placebo-controlled trials.

**Bibliography**

Kamal AH, Maguire JM, Wheeler JL, Currow DC, Abernethy AP. Dyspnea review for the palliative care professional: treatment goals and therapeutic options. J Palliat Med. 2012;15:106-14. PMID: 22268406 doi:10.1089/jpm.2011.0110

This content was last updated in August 2018.