
### Correct Answer: C) High ankle sprain 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose high ankle sprain.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with high ankle sprains report the acute onset of pain proximal to the ankle, accompanied by swelling and ecchymosis.

The most likely diagnosis is a high ankle sprain. High ankle sprains result from excessive dorsiflexion or eversion that causes injury to the tibiofibular syndesmotic ligaments connecting the distal tibia and fibula. Pain can be elicited by compressing the leg at mid-calf (squeeze test), by having the patient cross the legs with the lateral malleolus of the injured leg resting on the other knee (crossed-leg test), or by dorsiflexing and externally rotating the foot with the knee flexed (dorsiflexion-external rotation test). The most common mechanism of injury involves an externally rotated force applied to a dorsiflexed ankle, as is the case with this patient. Patients with high ankle sprains report the acute onset of pain proximal to the ankle. Pain is often accompanied by swelling and ecchymosis. Treatment is similar to that used for other ankle sprains and includes cryotherapy (ice or cold water), mobilization, and analgesics for pain control, but recovery is usually delayed.
Achilles tendon rupture most commonly results from sudden, forceful plantar flexion, such as occurs with jumping and sprinting. Patients report sudden onset of heel pain and often hear a popping sound at the time of the injury. On examination, patients have weak or absent plantar flexion. Absent plantar flexion with calf squeezing (Thompson test) also suggests the diagnosis. This patient's clinical presentation is not consistent with Achilles tendon rupture.
The Ottawa ankle and foot rules are useful in excluding ankle fractures, with an extremely high sensitivity (>95%). According to these validated rules, radiography should be obtained when a patient is unable to walk four steps both immediately after the injury and during evaluation, and when focal tenderness is present at the posterior aspect of the malleolus, the navicular bone, or the fifth metatarsal base. If these criteria are not met, obtaining radiography is not necessary because the probability of an ankle fracture is exceedingly low, as in this patient.
Lateral ankle sprains typically result from inversion injuries to the lateral ankle ligaments (the anterior and posterior talofibular ligaments and the calcaneofibular ligament). Physical examination reveals ecchymosis, lateral ankle tenderness, and swelling, which was not the case with this patient. This patient's symptoms and findings were located above the ankle.

**Bibliography**

Vopat ML, Vopat BG, Lubberts B, DiGiovanni CW. Current trends in the diagnosis and management of syndesmotic injury. Curr Rev Musculoskelet Med. 2017;10:94-103. PMID: 28101828

This content was last updated in August 2018.