
### Correct Answer: D) Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole 

**Educational Objective:** Treat acute bacterial prostatitis after a urologic procedure.

#### **Key Point:** The most common infectious cause of acute bacterial prostatitis is Escherichia coli or other gram-negative bacilli; the treatment of choice is a prolonged course of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or ciprofloxacin.

This patient's history and physical examination findings indicate acute bacterial prostatitis, and the most appropriate treatment regimen is trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Patient groups at high risk for acute bacterial prostatitis include those with diabetes mellitus, immunosuppression, or cirrhosis. Risk factors include unprotected sexual intercourse, urogenital instrumentation (chronic indwelling bladder catheterization, intermittent bladder catheterization, prostate biopsy), urinary tract manipulation (prostate resection), urinary stasis (obstruction), and benign prostatic hyperplasia. The most common infectious cause for acute bacterial prostatitis is Escherichia coli or other gram-negative bacilli. Diagnosis is typically established with urine Gram stain and culture in patients with a compatible history. The treatment of choice for acute bacterial prostatitis is a prolonged course of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or ciprofloxacin. Data on treatment duration are sparse, but 6 weeks is reasonable and recommended by experts. Given the prolonged duration of antimicrobial therapy required in cases of acute bacterial prostatitis, it is most prudent to select an antibiotic with appropriate coverage, while also attempting to minimize the potential for serious adverse effects. Prolonged ciprofloxacin use has been associated with QT prolongation as well as tendinopathy/tendon rupture, especially in older adults. As such, given the treatment duration needed for acute bacterial prostatitis, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole would be the most appropriate choice.
Amoxicillin would be an appropriate choice for patients with acute prostatitis and gram-positive cocci in chains. This finding would suggest an enterococcal infection, and treatment with amoxicillin or ampicillin would be appropriate. Neither of these antibiotics would be effective for acute bacterial prostatitis caused by E. coli or other gram-negative bacilli.
Men younger than 35 years who are sexually active and men older than 35 years who engage in high-risk sexual behavior should be treated with regimens that cover Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis. Ceftriaxone and doxycycline, or ceftriaxone and azithromycin, would be appropriate treatment choices in cases of acute epididymitis, specifically targeting C. trachomatis or N. gonorrhoeae. Neither regimen would be appropriate in this case.
Cephalexin would be an appropriate choice for patients with acute prostatitis and gram-positive cocci in clusters suggesting infection with Staphylococcus aureus or coagulase-negative staphylococci (Staphylococcus epidermidis or Staphylococcus saprophyticus).

**Bibliography**

Gill BC, Shoskes DA. Bacterial prostatitis. Curr Opin Infect Dis. 2016;29:86-91. PMID: 26555038 doi:10.1097/QCO.0000000000000222

This content was last updated in August 2018.