
### Correct Answer: A) Intravaginal clotrimazole 

**Educational Objective:** Treat vulvovaginal candidiasis.

#### **Key Point:** Topical antifungal imidazole therapy, such as intravaginal clotrimazole, is an effective treatment for uncomplicated vulvovaginal candidiasis, which is usually caused by Candida albicans.

The most appropriate treatment for this patient with symptoms of vulvovaginal candidiasis is intravaginal clotrimazole. Vulvovaginitis describes infectious and noninfectious conditions that cause vulvovaginal symptoms, including abnormal vaginal discharge, vulvar itching, burning, irritation, and malodor. When discharge is associated with abnormal findings, the differential diagnoses most commonly include bacterial vaginosis, trichomoniasis, and vulvovaginal candidiasis. Vaginal irritation also may be caused by dermatologic conditions or allergic reactions, cervical infections, or genitourinary syndrome of menopause. A woman may have more than one type of infection at a time. The diagnosis of vulvovaginal candidiasis is suggested by the presence of vaginal discharge and vulvar pruritus, pain, irritation, and redness. Signs include vulvar edema; fissures; excoriations; and thick, white, curdy vaginal discharge. The diagnosis can be made when a saline or 10% potassium hydroxide wet mount of vaginal discharge shows hyphae, pseudohyphae, or yeast. Because the sensitivity of microscopy is low, empiric treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis can be considered if symptoms are accompanied by characteristic findings. Several therapeutically equivalent topical and oral drugs are available; among the topically applied drugs, imidazoles (fluconazole, miconazole, clotrimazole) are the most effective. Evidence suggests that topical and oral agents have similar efficacy and that treatment preference should be based on cost, convenience, and patient preference.
Intravaginal nystatin, a topical antifungal drug, lacks good supporting evidence for the treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis and currently is not recommended.
Oral metronidazole is used to treat bacterial vaginosis, the most common cause of vaginal discharge, as well as to treat trichomoniasis. Accepted clinical criteria for diagnosing bacterial vaginosis include the presence of three of four characteristics: vaginal pH greater than 4.5, amine (“fishy”) odor on the application of 10% potassium hydroxide to vaginal secretions (whiff test), the presence of a thin homogeneous vaginal discharge, and the finding of at least 20% clue cells on a microscopic saline wet mount examination. Although the presentation of trichomoniasis varies, many women develop a copious, malodorous, pale yellow or gray frothy discharge with vulvar itching, burning, and postcoital bleeding. Point-of-care vaginal swab rapid immunoassays and nucleic acid amplification tests for detection of Trichomoniasis vaginalis have replaced microscopy or culture as the gold standard for diagnosis. This patient does not have findings of bacterial vaginosis or trichomoniasis; hence, metronidazole is not indicated.
Oral voriconazole should not be used to treat vulvovaginal candidiasis because no data support its use. Case reports suggest that it is ineffective, and there is the added potential for toxicity.

**Bibliography**

Mills BB. Vaginitis: beyond the basics. Obstet Gynecol Clin North Am. 2017;44:159-177. PMID: 28499528 doi:10.1016/j.ogc.2017.02.010

This content was last updated in August 2018.