
### Correct Answer: A) Baseline urine drug screening 

**Educational Objective:** Implement appropriate monitoring strategies before and during opioid therapy in a patient with chronic pain.

#### **Key Point:** In patients in whom opioid therapy is being considered for the treatment of chronic pain, urine drug screening should be performed before opioid prescription and at least yearly during therapy to evaluate for adherence to therapy and to identify the presence of other controlled drugs.

Baseline urine drug screening is recommended before starting opioid therapy in this patient. Many guidelines, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for Chronic Pain, recommend initial and ongoing urine drug screening. Urine drug screening is used to test for adherence to current therapy, identify potential opioid diversion (by assessing whether the expected metabolite is present within an appropriate time frame), and evaluate for the presence of other controlled prescription and nonprescription drugs. Urine drug screening should be performed before opioids are prescribed for chronic pain and at least yearly during therapy. More frequent screening may be necessary in the setting of therapy changes or the presence of red flags (lost prescriptions, early refill requests, multiple concurrent opioid providers or “doctor shopping,” consistently missed appointments, or erratic follow-up).
The CDC guideline and other opioid prescribing guidelines recommend that opioid therapy be considered only if expected benefits for both pain and function are anticipated to outweigh the risks. If opioids are used, they should be combined with nonpharmacologic and nonopioid pharmacologic therapies as appropriate. Discontinuing this patient's current nonpharmacologic and pharmacologic therapies is not indicated.
Chronic pain is often associated with comorbid psychological issues. Patients who meet the criteria for diagnosis of a psychological comorbidity, such as depression or anxiety, should be treated accordingly. However, routine referral for a psychiatric evaluation is not mandatory and is based on the presence and severity of comorbid mental health disorders.

**Bibliography**

Dowell D, Haegerich TM, Chou R. CDC guideline for prescribing opioids for chronic pain—United States, 2016. JAMA. 2016;315:1624-45. PMID: 26977696

This content was last updated in August 2018.