
### Correct Answer: C) Transthoracic echocardiography 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate preoperative cardiac risk using transthoracic echocardiography in a patient with moderate aortic stenosis.

#### **Key Point:** Transthoracic echocardiography to evaluate preoperative cardiac risk is appropriate for patients with moderate to severe valvular stenosis or regurgitation in the absence of an assessment in the previous year or for those whose clinical status has changed or who have referable symptoms.

In addition to electrocardiography, the most appropriate preoperative testing for this patient is transthoracic echocardiography (TTE). The patient was diagnosed with moderate aortic stenosis several years ago and has occasional dizziness with physical exertion, a potential symptom of severe aortic stenosis. Preoperative TTE should not be ordered routinely but is recommended in certain cases. Indications for preoperative echocardiography include dyspnea of unknown origin, heart failure with change in clinical status, and known left ventricular dysfunction in the absence of an assessment in the previous 12 months. Relevant to this patient, TTE is indicated in patients with known or suspected moderate or greater degrees of valvular stenosis or regurgitation if TTE has not been performed within 1 year or in those whose clinical status has changed or who have referable symptoms. It is reasonable to perform elevated-risk elective noncardiac surgery in patients with severe asymptomatic aortic stenosis, with appropriate intraoperative and postoperative hemodynamic monitoring. For patients who are candidates for valvular intervention because of symptoms or severity of disease, valvular intervention before elective noncardiac surgery is effective at reducing risk.
In a systematic review, a preoperative B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) level greater than 92 pg/mL (92 ng/L) predicted the composite outcome of death or nonfatal myocardial infarction at 30 days, at 180 days, and beyond. Despite the improvement in predicting poor surgical outcomes, it is unclear what role BNP measurement should play in perioperative cardiovascular care; this test is currently not recommended by American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines. The Canadian Cardiovascular Society guidelines on perioperative cardiac risk assessment and management for patients who undergo noncardiac surgery strongly recommend that a BNP level be obtained to enhance perioperative cardiac risk estimation in patients with a Revised Cardiac Risk Index score of 1 or more, patients aged 65 years and older, and patients aged 45 to 64 years who have significant cardiovascular disease.
This patient is scheduled to undergo surgery (total knee arthroplasty) and has good functional capacity (able to swim for 30 minutes), and she does not have coronary artery disease or its equivalents (chronic kidney disease, cerebrovascular disease, heart failure, or diabetes mellitus). This patient's risk for major ischemic events is low; therefore, dobutamine stress echocardiography is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Fleisher LA, Fleischmann KE, Auerbach AD, Barnason SA, Beckman JA, Bozkurt B, et al; American College of Cardiology. 2014 ACC/AHA guideline on perioperative cardiovascular evaluation and management of patients undergoing noncardiac surgery: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on practice guidelines. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2014;64:e77-137. PMID: 25091544

This content was last updated in August 2018.