
### Correct Answer: D) Serum lipid panel 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate serum lipid levels in a patient with obesity.

#### **Key Point:** Management guidelines for patients with overweight or obesity recommend measurement of height and weight; calculation of BMI; measurement of waist circumference; and measurement of cardiovascular disease risk factors, including blood pressure, fasting blood glucose (or hemoglobin A1c), and serum lipid levels.

This patient with obesity should undergo serum lipid screening. The American Heart Association, American College of Cardiology, and The Obesity Society guideline for the management of overweight and obesity recommends measurement of height and weight; calculation of BMI; measurement of waist circumference; and measurement of cardiovascular disease risk factors, including blood pressure, fasting blood glucose (or hemoglobin A1c), and serum lipid levels. Obesity is associated with insulin resistance and dyslipidemia characterized by elevations of total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, VLDL cholesterol, and triglycerides and a reduction in HDL cholesterol. The history should address symptoms of obesity-related comorbid conditions, but no additional screening is recommended in the absence of suggestive symptoms or findings.
Exercise stress testing is recommended for patients with symptoms of cardiac ischemia. Patients with overweight or obesity are at increased risk for cardiovascular disease and should be questioned about symptoms and referred for testing if symptoms are present. Routine screening of asymptomatic patients is not recommended.
Hepatic ultrasonography is not necessary for this patient. The risk for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis is increased in patients with overweight or obesity. A presumptive diagnosis can be made in a patient with mild abnormalities in aminotransferase levels, risk factors for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (such as diabetes mellitus, obesity, and hyperlipidemia), and ultrasonographic features consistent with hepatic steatosis. The recommended treatment of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis is weight loss, but no screening for this condition is recommended.
Risk for obstructive sleep apnea is increased among patients with overweight or obesity, particularly those with neck circumference greater than 38 cm (15 in) in women and greater than 43 cm (17 in) in men. The patient should be referred for overnight polysomnography only if symptoms of the disorder are present. He does not report nonrestorative sleep or daytime hypersomnolence, which would suggest obstructive sleep apnea.
The prevalence of an endocrine cause of obesity is very low. Thyroid function testing should be reserved for patients with symptoms and findings indicating thyroid disease.

**Bibliography**

Jensen MD, Ryan DH, Apovian CM, Ard JD, Comuzzie AG, Donato KA, et al; American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines. 2013 AHA/ACC/TOS guideline for the management of overweight and obesity in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines and The Obesity Society. Circulation. 2014;129:S102-38. PMID: 24222017 doi:10.1161/01.cir.0000437739.71477.ee

This content was last updated in August 2018.