
### Correct Answer: D) Multimodal speech therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat unexplained chronic cough.

#### **Key Point:** Recommended treatments for unexplained chronic cough include multimodality speech pathology therapy and neuromodulators, such as gabapentin.

Multimodal speech therapy is an appropriate treatment for this patient with unexplained chronic cough (UCC). UCC is defined as cough persisting for more than 8 weeks with no identifiable cause despite comprehensive evaluation. The evidence supporting the diagnosis and management of UCC is limited and generally weak. The American College of Chest Physicians (ACCP) expert panel recommends multimodal speech therapy consisting of two to four sessions of education, cough suppression techniques, breathing exercises, and counseling. This intervention helps reduce cough frequency and severity and improve cough-related quality of life. The ACCP also recommends a therapeutic trial of the neuromodulator gabapentin as long as the potential side effects and the risk-benefit profile are discussed with patients before use of the medication and the risk-benefit profile is reassessed at 6 months before continuation of the drug. Gabapentinoids were the subject of a 2019 FDA warning regarding the development of serious breathing difficulties in patients with respiratory risk factors, including opioid use and COPD, and should be used with caution in these patients. Neuromodulators may diminish neural sensitization, which is a key driver of unexplained cough.
Levels of neutrophils are frequently increased in patients with chronic cough. Macrolide antibiotics are effective in the treatment of exacerbations of COPD and bronchiectasis, possibly because of their anti-inflammatory and antineutrophil effects that are independent of antimicrobial effects. However, trials with macrolide antibiotics, such as azithromycin and erythromycin, have not demonstrated benefit in patients with UCC.
Inhaled ipratropium bromide was found to be beneficial in patients with chronic cough after an upper respiratory tract infection. The ACCP does not recommend ipratropium for the treatment of UCC because the findings related to ipratropium were from an older study with a small sample size and limited reporting of methods, and the results have not been replicated.
Like gabapentin, morphine was found to be effective in reducing cough severity and frequency, but the ACCP expert panel has declined to recommend morphine as an intervention for chronic cough. The danger of overdose and addiction potential of morphine have been well described.

**Bibliography**

Gibson P, Wang G, McGarvey L, Vertigan AE, Altman KW, Birring SS; CHEST Expert Cough Panel. Treatment of unexplained chronic cough: CHEST guideline and expert panel report. Chest. 2016;149:27-44. PMID: 26426314 doi:10.1378/chest.15-1496

This content was last updated in October 2020.