
### Correct Answer: B) Discontinue sertraline and initiate bupropion 

**Educational Objective:** Manage sexual side effects in a patient taking a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor for major depressive disorder.

#### **Key Point:** Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are generally well tolerated among patients with major depressive disorder, but sexual side effects (such as anorgasmia, delayed orgasm, and reduced libido) are common; for these patients, bupropion is an appropriate alternative, as is cognitive behavioral therapy.

The most appropriate next step in management is to discontinue sertraline and initiate bupropion, which has a lower rate of sexual side effects. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) or a second-generation antidepressant is an appropriate first choice for the treatment of major depressive disorder. Side effects, comorbid conditions, and cost are important considerations in the selection of therapy for a patient with depression. The most widely prescribed antidepressant drugs are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). SSRIs have excellent safety profiles compared with tricyclic antidepressants, but adverse sexual side effects (such as reduced libido, anorgasmia, or delayed orgasm) are common. Bupropion is an appropriate substitute agent for patients experiencing sexual side effects with an SSRI because it is an effective treatment with a low rate of sexual side effects. Bupropion can also be added to SSRI therapy to reduce SSRI-induced sexual side effects, but it is important to note that bupropion is contraindicated in patients with seizure disorders. Substituting CBT for antidepressant therapy in a patient experiencing sexual side effects of an SSRI is also an acceptable alternative.
The addition of CBT to antidepressant therapy is a reasonable approach for depression that does not respond to first-line therapy. This patient's depression is responsive to treatment, and the addition of CBT without stopping sertraline will not affect the patient's sexual side effects.
In patients who develop sexual side effects with one SSRI, there is substantial risk for similar problems with all SSRIs. This patient experienced anorgasmia with sertraline, and paroxetine has the highest rate of sexual side effects of all SSRIs, making it a poor choice for this patient.
Electroconvulsive therapy is appropriate for the management of treatment-resistant depression. This patient's depression is responding to first-line therapy; therefore, electroconvulsive therapy would not be the best treatment choice.

**Bibliography**

Lorenz T, Rullo J, Faubion S. Antidepressant-induced female sexual dysfunction. Mayo Clin Proc. 2016;91:1280-6. PMID: 27594188 doi:10.1016/j.mayocp.2016.04.033

This content was last updated in August 2018.