
### Correct Answer: C) Cognitive behavioral therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat medically unexplained symptoms.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with medically unexplained symptoms may benefit from cognitive behavioral therapy, physical therapy, occupational therapy, individual or group psychotherapy, social support, biofeedback, graded exercise therapy, stress management activities, and training in coping mechanisms.

The most appropriate management strategy in this patient with medically unexplained symptoms (MUS) is to recommend cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). The foundation of management of patients with MUS is an open, honest, and effective therapeutic relationship. Patients should be treated respectfully and cared for in a nonjudgmental manner. It is important to not only expect but to accept the patient's feelings of frustration; acknowledging these feelings early in the patient's management course can help to build and strengthen the therapeutic alliance. Management of MUS requires a patient-focused, holistic, and multimodal approach. The goals of management are functional restoration, decreased symptom focus, and acquisition of coping mechanisms rather than abatement of symptoms. Office visits should be scheduled at regular intervals, allowing for additional discussion, educational opportunities, and longitudinal reassessment. It should be made clear to patients that the treatment of MUS will not likely be curative and that symptoms may persist. Interventions that may benefit patients with MUS include CBT, physical therapy, occupational therapy, individual or group psychotherapy, social support, biofeedback, graded exercise therapy, stress management activities, and training in coping mechanisms. A systematic review of 29 randomized controlled trials comparing CBT with various control treatments found that CBT was an effective treatment for somatization or symptom syndromes and that physical symptoms were more responsive to treatment than were psychological symptoms. At least one randomized controlled trial found that CBT improves outcomes and decreases clinic visits in patients with several unexplained symptoms. A systematic review of four randomized controlled trials of psychodynamic therapy in patients with chronic pain found that the treatment reduced pain, improved function, and decreased the use of health services.
Anti-Hu paraneoplastic syndrome can cause temporal lobe, brainstem, and cerebellar dysfunction and may also involve the dorsal roots and autonomic nervous system. This syndrome is most commonly associated with small cell lung cancer. The long duration and nature of this patient's symptoms make this an unlikely diagnosis, and antibody measurement is not indicated.
Anti–N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (anti-NMDAR) antibody encephalitis has emerged as an increasingly common cause of encephalitis. The diagnosis is suggested by the presence of choreoathetosis, psychiatric symptoms, seizures, and autonomic instability and is confirmed by detection of anti-NMDAR antibodies in the serum. This patient has no symptoms compatible with this syndrome, and testing is not indicated.
Given the likely diagnosis of MUS, the patient's ongoing symptoms, and numerous available treatment strategies, providing no further treatment is not appropriate.

**Bibliography**

Evens A, Vendetta L, Krebs K, Herath P. Medically unexplained neurologic symptoms: a primer for physicians who make the initial encounter. Am J Med. 2015;128:1059-64. PMID: 25910791

This content was last updated in August 2018.