
### Correct Answer: E) No additional testing 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with nonspecific low back pain.

#### **Key Point:** Diagnostic studies should not be routinely obtained in patients with nonspecific low back pain; such testing should be reserved for patients with severe or progressive neurologic deficits and patients for whom a serious underlying condition is suspected.

No additional diagnostic testing is needed in this patient with acute, nonspecific low back pain. He lacks any concerning features, such as bowel or bladder dysfunction, constitutional symptoms, leg weakness, or saddle anesthesia. Indications to perform immediate imaging include severe and/or progressive neurologic deficits on examination or suspected serious underlying pathology, neither of which are present in this patient.
According to a joint clinical practice guideline released by the American College of Physicians and the American Pain Society, clinicians should not routinely perform diagnostic testing, such as CT, erythrocyte sedimentation rate measurement, MRI, or plain radiography, in patients with nonspecific low back pain. Even in patients with acute radiculopathy or spinal stenosis, routine imaging or testing has not been shown to improve outcomes. Most patients with acute low back pain recover quickly, regardless of the therapeutic intervention used. Whenever possible, maintaining daily activities should be encouraged. Nonpharmacologic treatment with acupuncture, massage, superficial heat, or spinal manipulation is preferred. If pharmacologic treatment is desired for acute low back pain, clinicians and patients should select NSAIDs or skeletal muscle relaxants.

**Bibliography**

Chou R. In the clinic. Low back pain. Ann Intern Med. 2014;160:ITC6-1. PMID: 25009837

This content was last updated in August 2018.