
### Correct Answer: D) Refer for genetic counseling 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient with a family history suggestive of an inherited disorder with genetic counseling.

#### **Key Point:** All patients for whom genetic testing is being considered should undergo genetic counseling.

This patient with a family history concerning for familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) should be referred for genetic counseling. FAP is most commonly inherited in an autosomal-dominant pattern and is caused by a mutation in the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene, which functions as a tumor suppressor gene. Nearly 100% of patients with the autosomal-dominant APC gene mutation develop colon cancer, with most developing cancer before age 40 years. Because this patient has a strong family history of colon cancer and his brother was recently diagnosed as a carrier of the genetic mutation for FAP, genetic testing is warranted if the patient desires it, and he should undergo genetic counseling first to help guide his decision on whether to pursue genetic testing. Components of genetic counseling include assessment of the patient's risk for the condition of interest and education on the condition, risks and benefits of testing, alternative options to testing, and implications of testing for the patient and family members. Genetic counseling should be performed by individuals with appropriate training. Clinicians can use a searchable database provided by the American College of Medical Genetics to locate a genetic counselor in their area.
Aspirin and NSAIDs have been touted as a means to reduce the appearance and growth of polyps in patients with FAP. In particular, sulindac has been shown to cause regression of colorectal adenomas in FAP; however, the response is incomplete, and the degree of protection is uncertain. Chemoprevention is not a recommended strategy for patients at risk for or diagnosed with FAP.
Classic FAP results in the development of hundreds to thousands of colorectal adenomas that often manifest by the second decade of life. Gastric fundic gland polyposis and duodenal adenomas are also present in most patients. Gastric cancer is rare, but duodenal and periampullary cancers are the second leading cause of cancer death in this group. Papillary carcinoma of the thyroid is increasingly recognized as accompanying FAP. If this patient is diagnosed as a carrier of the FAP mutation, screening for colon, duodenal and periampullary, and thyroid cancers should be initiated now.
All patients in whom genetic testing is being considered should first be referred for genetic counseling.

**Bibliography**

Hampel H, Bennett RL, Buchanan A, Pearlman R, Wiesner GL; Guideline Development Group, American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics Professional Practice and Guidelines Committee and National Society of Genetic Counselors Practice Guidelines Committee. A practice guideline from the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics and the National Society of Genetic Counselors: referral indications for cancer predisposition assessment. Genet Med. 2015;17:70-87. PMID: 25394175 doi:10.1038/gim.2014.147

This content was last updated in August 2018.