
### Correct Answer: C) Discharge the patient home with home care services 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate decision-making capacity.

#### **Key Point:** In the clinical setting, physicians must determine a patient's decision-making capacity by assessing the patient's ability to understand the relevant information, appreciate the medical consequences of the situation, consider various treatment options, and communicate a choice.

The most appropriate management is to discharge this patient home with home care services. Patients should be presumed legally competent to make medical decisions unless found otherwise by judicial determination. However, in the clinical setting, physicians must frequently determine a patient's decision-making capacity by assessing the patient's ability to understand the relevant information, appreciate the medical consequences of the situation, consider various treatment options, and communicate a choice. Decision-making capacity should be evaluated for each decision to be made, and frequent reassessment is necessary to confirm prior determinations of capacity. Patients with depression or mild dementia may retain decision-making capacity; however, in such circumstances, the capacity assessment should be performed more cautiously, particularly when a decision may result in serious consequences. Validated tools, such as the Aid to Capacity Evaluation (), may be useful for capacity assessment in the clinical setting. In this situation, the assessment reveals that the patient demonstrates sufficient capacity to make decisions; thus, he should be discharged home with appropriate services to ensure his safety. This patient's choice is also consistent with his previously expressed wishes, which lends validity to his decision.
Cognitive evaluations, such as the Mini–Mental State Examination, do not assess capacity; rather, they are used to detect cognitive impairment.
This competent and autonomous patient is able to make his own choices; therefore, the patient's daughter should not be asked to make a decision on his behalf.
Formal assessments of competence require judicial determination, although a competency hearing is not usually required for clinical decision making. In this case, a court order for the patient to be discharged to a rehabilitation facility is not required because he demonstrates decision-making capacity.
A psychiatric consultation is unnecessary to determine a patient's decision-making capacity; any physician can perform this assessment. However, some hospitals may suggest a psychiatric evaluation in high-stakes situations, such as when a patient requests to leave against medical advice.

**Bibliography**

Porrino P, Falcone Y, Agosta L, Isaia G, Zanocchi M, Mastrapasqua A, et al. Informed consent in older medical inpatients: assessment of decision-making capacity. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2015;63:2423-4. PMID: 26603072

This content was last updated in August 2018.