
### Correct Answer: A) Administer a second dose of MMR vaccine 

**Educational Objective:** Manage vaccination of a health care worker.

#### **Key Point:** Health care workers are at increased risk for acquiring and transmitting measles, mumps, and rubella and should receive a second dose of the MMR (measles, mumps, and rubella) vaccine.

This patient should receive a second dose of the measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine. In all immunocompetent adults who lack documented immunity against measles, mumps, and rubella, at least one dose of the MMR vaccine should be administered. Health care workers born after 1957 are at increased risk for acquiring and transmitting measles, mumps, and rubella and should receive a second dose of the MMR vaccine at least 28 days after the first dose. Although other U.S. adults born prior to 1957 are considered immune to measles, this schedule can also be considered in health care workers born before 1957. A second dose should also be administered to postsecondary students, household contacts of immunocompromised patients, and international travelers. For persons who have been previously vaccinated with two doses of a mumps virus–containing vaccine but are at increased risk because of an outbreak, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommends administering a third dose of mumps virus–containing vaccine to improve protection.
This patient's status as a health care worker does not necessitate administration of the hepatitis A vaccine, despite serologic tests indicating that he lacks immunity. The hepatitis A vaccine should be administered to patients who are at increased risk for infection or complications of infection, such as those who work or travel to endemic areas, men who have sex with men, individuals with chronic liver disease, individuals with HIV, users of illicit drugs, patients experiencing homelessness, persons with occupational risk (for example, those who conduct hepatitis A–related research), household or close contacts of adopted children from endemic areas, and those with potential occupational exposure (such as those who work in group homes, nonresidential day-care facilities for developmentally disabled persons, and health care programs serving users of injection or noninjection drugs). Vaccination of individuals at high risk of infection or complications of infection should also be considered during outbreaks of hepatitis A. Hepatitis A vaccination is also indicated in persons who desire vaccination and could be administered to this patient if he wishes.
Hepatitis B vaccination is indicated in all health care workers who lack immunity. This patient has a positive hepatitis B surface antibody test result, whereas his surface antigen and core antibody levels are undetectable. This pattern is consistent with prior vaccination with an appropriate immune response. As such, hepatitis B vaccination is unnecessary in this patient.
Pneumococcal vaccination is recommended in all adults aged 65 years and older and adults aged 19 to 64 years with certain high-risk conditions. This patient does not have any chronic medical conditions and is also a nonsmoker; therefore, vaccination with the 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Kim DK, Riley LE, Hunter P; Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. Recommended immunization schedule for adults aged 19 years or older, United States, 2018. Ann Intern Med. 2018;168:210-220. PMID: 29404596

This content was last updated in March 2021.