
### Correct Answer: D) Varenicline 

**Educational Objective:** Treat tobacco dependence with pharmacologic therapy in a patient with a recent cardiovascular event.

#### **Key Point:** Varenicline is an effective therapy for smoking cessation and should be considered in smokers with a recent cardiac event.

The most effective treatment is varenicline. Although bupropion and nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) monotherapy are effective for tobacco cessation, varenicline has been shown to be more effective. In addition, combination therapy with varenicline and nicotine replacement therapy is more efficacious than varenicline monotherapy. Some studies, including a large meta-analysis, have raised concerns of an increased risk for cardiovascular events in patients taking varenicline compared with those taking placebo. However, a recent double-blind, randomized, placebo and active-controlled trial of varenicline, bupropion, and nicotine replacement therapy showed no evidence that the use of smoking cessation pharmacotherapies increased the risk of serious cardiovascular adverse events during or after treatment. FDA drug labeling information does not list recent cardiovascular events as a contraindication to varenicline therapy. The FDA recently removed the black box warning related to serious mental health adverse reactions with varenicline use after the risk for mental health effects was found to be lower than previously reported. Varenicline should be used with caution in patients with kidney failure.
Bupropion, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor with nicotinic receptor activity, effectively increases smoking cessation rates. Bupropion should not be used in patients with a history of seizure disorders, stroke, brain tumor, brain surgery, or head trauma. Blood pressure should be monitored carefully, as severity of hypertension may increase with bupropion treatment. In direct comparison trials, bupropion was less effective in achieving smoking cessation than was varenicline.
Electronic cigarettes hold promise as a harm reduction tool that may help patients quit smoking; however, the evidence regarding their efficacy, risks, and benefits is still emerging. Therefore, current FDA-approved, evidence-based agents for tobacco cessation, such as varenicline, would be more appropriate in this patient.
Effectiveness of NRT is similar to that of bupropion for smoking cessation. Options for NRT include patch, gum, lozenges, oral inhaler, and nasal spray. Concomitant use of more than one form of NRT enhances efficacy. NRT should be used with caution in patients with unstable cardiac disease, life-threatening arrhythmias, or a recent cardiac event. In these patients, the decision to initiate NRT should involve a cardiologist. Patients should also be discouraged from smoking during use of NRT. In this patient with recent non–ST-elevation myocardial infarction, NRT would not be the most appropriate smoking cessation therapy.

**Bibliography**

Patel MS, Steinberg MB. In the clinic. Smoking cessation. Ann Intern Med. 2016;164:ITC33-ITC48. PMID: 26926702

This content was last updated in March 2021.