
### Correct Answer: A) Abdominal duplex ultrasonography 

**Educational Objective:** Screen for abdominal aortic aneurysm in a man with a history of smoking.

#### **Key Point:** All men aged 65 to 75 years who have ever smoked should undergo one-time abdominal ultrasonography to screen for abdominal aortic aneurysm.

The most appropriate screening test to perform in this former smoker is abdominal duplex ultrasonography to screen for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). The most important risk factors for AAA are advancing age, male sex (6:1 male-to-female incidence ratio), and smoking. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends one-time abdominal ultrasonography to screen for AAA in all men aged 65 to 75 years who have ever smoked. Ever-smokers are usually defined as those who have smoked more than 100 cigarettes in their lifetime. The USPSTF recommends that clinicians selectively offer screening for AAA in men aged 65 to 75 years who have never smoked, based on the patient's medical history, family history, other risk factors, and preferences. A recently published meta-analysis concluded that screening significantly reduces AAA-related mortality. Abdominal duplex ultrasonography is the preferred screening modality, with a sensitivity of 94% to 100% and specificity of 98% to 100% for detecting AAA.
Chest radiography and sputum cytologic evaluation have not shown adequate sensitivity or specificity as screening tests for lung cancer and are not recommended.
Although the USPSTF concludes that there is insufficient evidence to recommend routine screening for osteoporosis in men, the National Osteoporosis Foundation recommends osteoporosis screening in men aged 70 years or older. Screening may also be considered in men at high risk for osteoporosis (men with low body weight, recent weight loss, physical inactivity, use of oral glucocorticoids, previous fragility fracture, alcohol use, or androgen deprivation via pharmacologic agents or orchiectomy). The American College of Physicians recommends periodic individualized assessment of risk factors for osteoporosis in older men.
The USPSTF recommends lung cancer screening with annual low-dose CT in persons aged 50 to 80 years with a 20-pack-year smoking history, including former smokers who have quit in the last 15 years. Screening should be discontinued once a person has not smoked for 15 years or develops a health problem that substantially limits life expectancy or the willingness to have curative lung surgery. This patient has a 10-pack-year smoking history and quit almost 30 years ago; therefore, he does not meet the criteria for lung cancer screening.

**Bibliography**

Takagi H, Ando T, Umemoto T; ALICE (All-Literature Investigation of Cardiovascular Evidence) Group. Abdominal aortic aneurysm screening reduces all-cause mortality. Angiology. 2017:3319717693107. PMID: 28193091 doi:10.1177/0003319717693107

This content was last updated in October 2021.