
### Correct Answer: D) Medication reconciliation 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent medication errors with medication reconciliation.

#### **Key Point:** Medication reconciliation should occur at all transitions of care to prevent medication errors.

Medication reconciliation would have most likely prevented this medication error. Medication reconciliation is the process of creating an accurate, comprehensive list of the patient's prescription and nonprescription medications (including the dose, frequency, and route of administration) and comparing the list to medication orders (at admission, transfer, or discharge) to resolve inconsistencies. Completion of medication reconciliation decreases adverse drug events, and although the effect on hospital readmissions, morbidity, and mortality is less clear, medication reconciliation should occur at all care transitions to prevent medication errors. In this case, tamoxifen was withheld upon admission but should have been restarted at the time of the patient's discharge from the hospital. Medication reconciliation at the time of discharge would have prevented this error, which resulted in a lapse in the patient's breast cancer treatment.
Computerized physician order entry (CPOE) systems are designed to improve the medication ordering process and prevent medication errors and medication adverse events. Some CPOE systems are integrated with decision support systems. CPOE has resulted in many practice improvements, including standardization of care, improved legibility of orders, and implementation of medication alerts (such as allergy and drug interaction alerts). However, CPOE cannot replace medication reconciliation and would not have prevented this medication error at a transition of care.
Manually transcribing physician medication orders into a paper-based medication administration record, even if originated by using the CPOE process, can lead to medication administration errors and adverse events. However, using a system that features a direct electronic interface between CPOE and the electronic medication administration record can eliminate transcription errors and errors in reading and interpreting hand-written, paper-based medication administration records. Such a system does not replace medication reconciliation and would not have prevented this medication error at the time of discharge.
Improved medication labeling, including the use of “tall man” lettering (for example, DOBUTamine versus DOPamine), helps minimize confusion surrounding look-alike and sound-alike medications, thereby reducing medication errors. However, improved medication labeling would not have prevented this medication error resulting from a transition of care.

**Bibliography**

Mueller SK, Sponsler KC, Kripalani S, Schnipper JL. Hospital-based medication reconciliation practices: a systematic review. Arch Intern Med. 2012;172:1057-69. PMID: 22733210

This content was last updated in August 2018.