
### Correct Answer: A) FRAIL scale score 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose frailty.

#### **Key Point:** Frailty is a quantifiable geriatric syndrome that may predict a patient's response to medical treatment.

Frailty is a multifactorial geriatric syndrome that may predict a patient's response to certain treatments as well as morbidity and mortality in light of chronic illness. This patient demonstrates unintentional weight loss, low energy and activity levels, slow walking speed, and weakness, all of which are associated with frailty. Indices such as the Frailty Index, the FRAIL (Fatigue, Resistance, Ambulation, Illness, and Loss of weight) scale, and the Osteoporotic Fractures Frailty Scale have been validated for use in primary care. The Frailty Index has been in use for a longer time than other indices; however, its length and complexity limit its usefulness in routine care. The FRAIL scale consists of five self-reported measures and is easy to administer and score in an office setting.
Pharmacologic cardiac stress testing is recommended for patients who cannot exercise and are experiencing symptoms suggestive of cardiac ischemia. There is no established role for pharmacologic stress testing as a predictor of response to cancer treatment.
Lung function during exertion using the 6-minute walk test is helpful to assess disability and prognosis in chronic lung conditions. Simple pulse oximetry and oxygen desaturation studies performed at rest and with exertion assess the need for oxygen supplementation. During a 6-minute walk test, oxygen saturation, heart rate, dyspnea and fatigue levels, and distance walked in 6 minutes are recorded. The 6-minute walk test has no established role in predicting response to cancer chemotherapy in frail older adults.
The Timed Up and Go test is used to identify patients at risk for falls. The individual components of the test (rising from the chair, gait, walking speed, balance maintenance while turning, and sitting) offer insight into the various mechanics of mobility and can guide a more focused evaluation and intervention. Results of the Timed Up and Go test do not predict response to cancer treatment.

**Bibliography**

Puts MT, Santos B, Hardt J, Monette J, Girre V, Atenafu EG, et al. An update on a systematic review of the use of geriatric assessment for older adults in oncology. Ann Oncol. 2014;25:307-15. PMID: 24256847 doi:10.1093/annonc/mdt386

This content was last updated in August 2018.