
### Correct Answer: C) Methylphenidate 

**Educational Objective:** Treat attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder.

#### **Key Point:** Stimulants, such as methylphenidate, are first-line pharmacologic therapy for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder; when stimulants are contraindicated, atomoxetine, bupropion, and tricyclic antidepressants can be used.

In addition to cognitive behavioral therapy, methylphenidate is the best initial treatment for this patient with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). ADHD is characterized by persistent inattention and/or hyperactivity-impulsivity that disrupts functioning or development in at least two areas of a patient's life (such as work, home, or peer relationships). Some symptoms must be present since age 12 years; however, many patients are not formally diagnosed until adulthood, and up to 60% of children with ADHD continue to have symptoms as an adult. Although symptoms of hyperactivity and impulsivity often lessen over time, adults with ADHD may be easily distracted, disorganized, and restless. Many adults have comorbid psychiatric problems, such as anxiety, depression, sleep disorders, and substance use. Cognitive behavioral therapy alone or in combination with pharmacotherapy is effective for improving executive functioning in patients with ADHD. Stimulants, such as methylphenidate, are first-line pharmacologic therapy for ADHD. However, these drugs should not be prescribed to patients with recent substance use or at high risk for serious adverse effects (arrhythmia, hypertension). Atomoxetine, bupropion, and tricyclic antidepressants can be used when stimulants are contraindicated.
Benzodiazepines, such as clonazepam, can be used for short-term treatment of severe, acute anxiety disorders. Their use is limited by the potential for abuse, and they are not indicated for the treatment of ADHD.
Escitalopram and other selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are highly effective for the treatment of various mood and anxiety disorders. However, they have no established role in the treatment of ADHD unless there is a comorbid disorder responsive to this class of drugs.
Ropinirole is an effective therapy for restless legs syndrome. This patient is experiencing restlessness but does not report restless legs or sleep disturbance; therefore, ropinirole would not be indicated.

**Bibliography**

Volkow ND, Swanson JM. Clinical practice: adult attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder. N Engl J Med. 2013;369:1935-44. PMID: 24224626 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp1212625

This content was last updated in August 2018.