
### Correct Answer: B) Breast ultrasonography 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate noncyclic mastalgia.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with noncyclic mastalgia with focal breast pain but no palpable mass should undergo targeted breast ultrasonography because approximately 1% of such patients may have breast cancer at the site of pain.

The most appropriate initial management of this patient is breast ultrasonography. Breast pain (mastalgia) is common and may be cyclic or noncyclic. Many younger women experience cyclic breast discomfort with the onset of menses. The discomfort is typically bilateral, lasts for several days, and varies in intensity. Noncyclic breast pain is more likely to be unilateral and may be caused by trauma, cysts, duct ectasia, mastitis, ligamentous stretching secondary to large breasts, or a breast mass. A thorough history with attention to type of pain, location, and relationship to menses and a careful physical examination are essential to rule out palpable masses or anatomic causes. All women should be up to date with screening mammography. Women with a palpable breast mass should be referred for diagnostic imaging. Women with noncyclic breast pain and no evidence of a breast mass should undergo targeted breast ultrasonography because approximately 1% of such patients may have breast cancer at the site of pain.
Despite common perception, there is no evidence that avoiding caffeine will relieve breast hypersensitivity or pain.
Danazol is approved by the FDA for management of mastalgia but is recommended only for management of persistent severe cyclic breast pain unrelieved by conservative management. Because this patient has noncyclic breast pain and danazol is associated with the side effects of acne, hirsutism, weight gain, and irregular vaginal bleeding, danazol is not a therapeutic option for this patient.
The addition of mammography to ultrasonography does not appear to improve diagnostic accuracy in young women with mammographically dense breasts.
Reassurance, coupled with the regular use of a fitted support bra, would be appropriate management for a patient with cyclic mastalgia and a normal physical examination. This patient has focal noncyclic mastalgia necessitating diagnostic imaging as the first step in management.

**Bibliography**

Iddon J, Dixon JM. Mastalgia. BMJ. 2013;347:f3288. PMID: 24336097 doi:10.1136/bmj.f3288

This content was last updated in August 2018.