
### Correct Answer: D) 95% 

**Educational Objective:** Estimate posttest probability using likelihood ratios.

#### **Key Point:** Likelihood ratios (LRs) are a statistical indicator of how much the result of a diagnostic test will increase or decrease the pretest probability of a disease in a specific patient; a clinical rule of thumb is that positive LRs of 2, 5, and 10 correspond to an increase in disease probability of 15%, 30%, and 45%, respectively.

This patient's posttest probability of ischemic coronary artery disease is approximately 95%. His pretest probability of ischemic coronary artery disease is estimated to be 50% based on clinical variables (including the nature of the chest pain, age, and sex). Likelihood ratios (LRs) are a statistical indicator of how much the result of a diagnostic test will increase or decrease the pretest probability of a disease in a specific patient. LRs may be determined from the sensitivity and specificity of a diagnostic test, and separate LRs are calculated for use when a test result is positive (LR+) or when a test result is negative (LR−). This patient has a positive result on a treadmill stress echocardiographic study, and the LR for a positive result on this test is approximately 10. Although very specific posttest probabilities may be calculated or estimated by using a nomogram, a clinical rule of thumb is that LR+ values of 2, 5, and 10 correspond to an increase in disease probability of 15%, 30%, and 45%, respectively. With a pretest probability of 50%, a positive result on treadmill stress echocardiography would increase the likelihood of disease by approximately 45%, leading to a posttest probability in the range of 95%; this information would be very useful clinically in making further treatment decisions.
If the stress test result had been negative, LR− values of 0.5, 0.2, and 0.1 correspond to a decrease in disease probability of 15%, 30%, and 45%, respectively. Tests with LRs between 0.5 and 2 do not alter the pretest probability significantly if they are positive or negative. Evaluating the LRs of a particular test may help in selecting an appropriate study to obtain useful clinical information in the diagnostic process.

**Bibliography**

Kent P, Hancock MJ. Interpretation of dichotomous outcomes: sensitivity, specificity, likelihood ratios, and pre-test and post-test probability. J Physiother. 2016;62:231-3. PMID: 27637768 doi: 10.1016/j.jphys.2016.08.008

This content was last updated in August 2018.