
### Correct Answer: E) Low-molecular-weight heparin and intermittent pneumatic compression 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent postoperative venous thromboembolism in a patient at high risk for venous thromboembolism.

#### **Key Point:** For patients undergoing nonorthopedic surgery who are at high risk for postoperative venous thromboembolism as defined by the Caprini score, pharmacologic prophylaxis with low-molecular-weight heparin or low-dose unfractionated heparin and the addition of mechanical prophylaxis are recommended.

Mechanical prophylaxis with intermittent pneumatic compression (IPC) and pharmacologic prophylaxis with low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) are appropriate for prevention of postoperative venous thromboembolism (VTE) in this patient undergoing nonorthopedic surgery. The American College of Chest Physicians (ACCP) antithrombotic guideline provides VTE prophylaxis recommendations for both orthopedic and nonorthopedic surgery populations. The ACCP guideline recommends using the Caprini score () to estimate risk for postoperative thrombosis in those undergoing general surgery, gastrointestinal surgery, urologic surgery, gynecologic surgery, bariatric surgery, vascular surgery, and plastic/reconstructive surgery (but not other types of surgeries). It includes weighted patient and surgery-related risk factors for VTE. A score of 0 defines very low risk for VTE (estimated VTE risk in the absence of prophylaxis, <0.5%); scores of 1 to 2 define low risk (VTE risk, 1.5%); scores of 3 to 4 define moderate risk (VTE risk, 3%); and scores of 5 or more define high risk (VTE risk, 6%). For patients at high risk for VTE, pharmacologic prophylaxis with LMWH or low-dose unfractionated heparin and the addition of mechanical prophylaxis are recommended. This patient has a high perioperative risk for VTE, with a Caprini score of 6 (1 point for history of inflammatory bowel disease, 2 points for major surgery >45 minutes, and 3 points for personal history of VTE). Therefore, IPC and LMWH are appropriate.
Evidence on clinical outcomes from randomized controlled trials evaluating graduated compression stockings is sparse. Available evidence shows no statistically significant difference in risk for mortality, symptomatic deep venous thrombosis, or pulmonary embolism. However, risk for lower extremity skin damage significantly increases among patients treated with compression stockings.
The addition of LMWH to graduated compression stockings is believed not to provide additional benefit to LMWH alone. In this patient, the recommended prophylaxis of IPC and heparin is most appropriate.

**Bibliography**

Gould MK, Garcia DA, Wren SM, Karanicolas PJ, Arcelus JI, Heit JA, et al. Prevention of VTE in nonorthopedic surgical patients: antithrombotic therapy and prevention of thrombosis, 9th ed: American College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. Chest. 2012;141:e227S-e277S. PMID: 22315263

This content was last updated in August 2018.