
### Correct Answer: C) Ondansetron 

**Educational Objective:** Treat radiation-induced nausea and vomiting in a patient with cancer.

#### **Key Point:** A 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 (5-HT3) antagonist, such as ondansetron, is the preferred initial agent for radiation-induced nausea and vomiting.

The most appropriate treatment of this patient's nausea and vomiting in the setting of chemoradiation therapy is ondansetron. Nausea and vomiting are common complications of radiotherapy. Gastrointestinal mucosal injury and subsequent serotonin release are likely the driving mechanisms of this patient's nausea, and treatment targeting the neurotransmitter suspected of causing the nausea is a 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 (5-HT3) antagonist, such as ondansetron. Dexamethasone may be added as an additional antiemetic therapy.
Haloperidol is a potent dopamine antagonist with robust antiemetic properties. Its numerous forms (intravenous, oral, sublingual concentrate) make it a versatile partner and commonly used medication to treat nausea in multiple settings, including hospice. However, given that the cause of this patient's nausea is suspected to be 5-HT3 release in the setting of radiotherapy, ondansetron would be a preferred agent.
Olanzapine is a potent antiemetic with a diverse neurotransmitter profile, targeting dopamine, 5-HT3, histaminic, and muscarinic receptors. It is effective in reducing chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, but its efficacy in treating radiation-induced nausea has not yet been studied. However, olanzapine would be a reasonable choice for nausea refractory to other agents given its ability to affect multiple receptors implicated in nausea and vomiting.
Synthetic oral cannabinoids are not recommended as initial antiemetic therapy for any cancer-related condition. Experts recommend their use be limited to breakthrough symptoms caused by chemotherapy. Guidelines from the National Comprehensive Cancer Network, American Society of Clinical Oncology, and Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer do not recommend the use of medical marijuana for the treatment of cancer-related nausea and vomiting.

**Bibliography**

Berger MJ, Ettinger DS, Aston J, Barbour S, Bergsbaken J, Bierman PJ, et al. NCCN guidelines insights: antiemesis, version 2.2017. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2017;15:883-893. PMID: 28687576 doi:10.6004/jnccn.2017.0117

This content was last updated in August 2018.