
### Correct Answer: D) Psychogenic nonepileptic spell/event 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose a psychogenic nonepileptic spell/event.

#### **Key Point:** Historical features that suggest the diagnosis of psychogenic nonepileptic spells/events include variability of symptoms, closing of eyes, long duration of shaking that waxes and wanes, and lack of postictal confusion; confirmation with video electroencephalographic monitoring usually is required.

This patient most likely is experiencing psychogenic nonepileptic spells/events (PNES). Although event capture during video electroencephalographic monitoring usually is required to confirm the diagnosis, the history is strongly suggestive of PNES because of the variability of symptoms (events not entirely stereotyped), eyes being closed, facial redness due to intermittent breath holding, shaking that starts with retained posture, long duration of shaking that waxes and wanes, limpness after falling, variable limb involvement, and rapid breathing without postictal confusion afterward.
Convulsive status epilepticus (CSE) is unlikely in this patient. The (relatively) long duration of symptoms without subsequent confusion or altered mental status places doubt on the diagnosis of CSE, which is not associated with a return to baseline mental status after seizures cease.
Unlike this patient's episodes, a generalized tonic-clonic seizure is characterized by stereotyped movements (essentially the same from one event to the next), eyes being open, cyanosis due to cessation of breathing, a duration of 2 to 5 minutes, stiffness and falling before symptoms of shaking, shaking that initially is fast but gradually slows and stops, and postictal confusion.
Myoclonic seizures are typically very brief (<1 second) and characterized by synchronous jerking or shaking of the limbs with retained awareness and no postictal confusion afterward. Given the duration and variable nature of this patient's seizures, they are not myoclonic.

**Bibliography**

LaFrance WC Jr, Baker GA, Duncan R, Goldstein LH, Reuber M. Minimum requirements for the diagnosis of psychogenic nonepileptic seizures: a staged approach: a report from the International League Against Epilepsy Nonepileptic Seizures Task Force. Epilepsia. 2013;54:2005-18. PMID: 24111933 doi:10.1111/epi.12356

This content was last updated in August 2018.