
### Correct Answer: B) Magnetic resonance angiography of the brain 

**Educational Objective:** Treat reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Brain magnetic resonance angiography or head CT angiography are the diagnostic procedures of choice for reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome, the second most frequent source of thunderclap headache.

This patient should undergo magnetic resonance angiography of the brain. Her recent history of thunderclap headache is characteristic of reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS). The term thunderclap headache is applied to severe headaches that reach maximum intensity within 1 minute. Although subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is the most frequent cause of thunderclap headache, and some patients may experience an isolated sentinel leak before aneurysmal rupture, three episodes within 4 days would be highly unusual for SAH. Normal results of head CT scans and lumbar puncture (LP) effectively exclude this diagnosis. RCVS is the second most frequent source of thunderclap headaches. Head CT and LP findings are both typically normal. Diagnosis is confirmed by documentation of multifocal constriction of intracranial vessels that normalizes within 3 months of onset. Brain magnetic resonance angiography or head CT angiography are the diagnostic procedures of choice. Predisposing factors include vasoactive drugs (such as sympathomimetic agents, triptans, cocaine, and cannabis) and antidepressants (such as sertraline). The headaches may be triggered by exertion, Valsalva maneuvers, emotion, or showering/bathing. Although some patients develop focal deficits, encephalopathy, or seizures, most have normal findings on clinical examination. Calcium channel blockers, such as verapamil and nimodipine, are the treatments of choice.
Digital subtraction angiography in patients with RCVS has been associated with transient neurologic deficits and is typically avoided.
Because glucocorticoids are associated with a worse clinical course in RCVS, methylprednisolone sodium succinate has no role in its management. This drug can be appropriate therapy for other headache disorders, such as giant cell arteritis, optic neuritis, cerebral vasculitis, or pituitary apoplexy, but none of these is compatible with the patient's clinical presentation and normal results on a head CT scan and LP.
Sumatriptan is an appropriate treatment for acute migraine headache but should be avoided in RCVS. Triptans may predispose patients to RCVS and potentially worsen cerebral vasospasm.
Valproic acid has been shown to be effective in the prevention of episodic migraine. The International Classification of Headache Disorders, third edition, (ICHD-3) criteria for all primary headaches, including migraine, include the requirement that headache is “not better accounted for by another ICHD-3 diagnosis.” The clinical picture of recurrent thunderclap headache over a span of days or weeks is much more likely to represent RCVS than migraine.

**Bibliography**

Ducros A, Wolff V. The typical thunderclap headache of reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome and its various triggers. Headache. 2016 Apr;56(4):657-73. Epub 2016 Mar 26. PMID: 27015869 doi: 10.1111/head.12797

This content was last updated in August 2018.