
### Correct Answer: A) High-dose oral prednisone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a multiple sclerosis exacerbation.

#### **Key Point:** Administration of high-dose glucocorticoids is the standard treatment for multiple sclerosis exacerbations.

This patient should receive high-dose oral prednisone, 1250 mg/d for 5 days. She is experiencing an acute exacerbation, or relapse, of multiple sclerosis (MS). Administration of high-dose glucocorticoids is the standard treatment for MS exacerbations. This treatment approach derives from the landmark Optic Neuritis Treatment Trial, in which high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone (1 g/d for 5 days) was compared to prednisone (1 mg/kg/d for 2 weeks) and placebo. Intravenous methylprednisolone was associated with a more rapid recovery of visual function. Subsequent studies have shown that use of a bioequivalent oral high-dose regimen (such as oral prednisone, 1250 mg, or oral methylprednisolone, 1 g) is as efficacious as intravenous methylprednisolone and has no significant differences in adverse effects. Because of their ease of administration and reduced costs, high-dose oral regimens are beginning to replace intravenous methylprednisolone, although either approach is valid.
Low-dose oral prednisone, 1 mg/kg/d for 2 weeks, is inappropriate. In fact, low-dose oral prednisone was inferior to high-dose intravenous glucocorticoids and actually resulted in worse outcomes than placebo in the Optic Neuritis Treatment Trial. Although this dose of oral prednisone is used for some other neuroinflammatory conditions (such as Bell palsy), it potentially can harm patients with MS experiencing a flare and should be avoided.
A randomized control trial has documented that plasmapheresis may result in clinical improvement in patients with acute exacerbations of MS who do not respond to glucocorticoid therapy. Plasmapheresis is not considered primary, or first-line, therapy for patients with an acute relapse of MS.
The links between vitamin D deficiency and MS pathophysiology have been clearly established, with reduced levels of serum vitamin D predicting future accumulation of new lesions on MRI. Administration of vitamin D supplementation has been shown to provide additional disease activity control, with a recent trial finding less MRI activity in patients taking interferon plus vitamin D versus interferon alone. However, there is no role for vitamin D in the management of an acute relapse of MS. Chronic supplementation with vitamin D is reasonable for most patients with MS, especially if vitamin D levels are low.

**Bibliography**

Burton JM, O’Connor PW, Hohol M, Bevene J. Oral versus intravenous steroids for treatment of relapses in multiple sclerosis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012 Dec 12;12:CD006921. PMID: 23235634

This content was last updated in August 2018.