
### Correct Answer: B) Dystonic tremor 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose dystonic tremor.

#### **Key Point:** Dystonic tremor occurs both at rest and with action and is characterized by associated dystonic posturing and the presence of a null point at which a change in the position of the affected limb resolves the tremor.

This patient has a dystonic tremor, which occurs both at rest and with action and is characterized by associated dystonic posturing and the presence of a null point at which change in the position of the affected limb resolves the tremor. The null point is the position at which the trajectories of the forces caused by dystonic coactivation of agonist and antagonist muscles neutralize each other, which leads to resolution of the tremor. In addition, the action component of tremor has task specificity in that it is worse with use of scissors but spares the handwriting.
Cerebellar tremor is characterized by increasing tremor amplitude as the limb approaches the target (terminal intention tremor) and the presence of associated cerebellar symptoms. These features are absent in this patient.
Essential tremor is the most common movement disorder and often presents with a bilateral upper extremity postural and action tremor. It is not associated with dystonic features. Additional features include bilateral involvement and a positive family history. Amelioration of the tremor by ethanol is typical and did not occur in this patient.
Parkinsonian tremor is prominent at rest and can reemerge after a brief delay when the arms are held in an outstretched position. Although dystonia can be seen secondary to Parkinson disease, the absence of other associated features, especially the bradykinesia required for a diagnosis of Parkinson disease, excludes this diagnosis.
Rubral tremor is caused by focal injury to cerebellar outflow pathways and is characterized by a coarse tremor that is present at rest but most severe during action. This type of tremor has a prominent proximal component and interferes with various actions, such as feeding, typing, and writing, in a nonselective way. Also, MRIs of the brain reveal a focal causative lesion that is not present in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Fasano A, Deuschl G. Therapeutic advances in tremor. Mov Disord. 2015;30:1557-65. PMID: 26293405 doi:10.1002/mds.26383

This content was last updated in August 2018.