
### Correct Answer: E) Valproic acid 

**Educational Objective:** Treat convulsive status epilepticus in a patient allergic to phenytoin.

#### **Key Point:** According to current guidelines, valproic acid is an appropriate second-line therapy for convulsive status epilepticus for patients allergic to phenytoin.

The patient should now receive intravenous valproic acid. He is in generalized convulsive status epilepticus (CSE). A medical emergency that can lead to significant morbidity and mortality, CSE is defined as persistent tonic-clonic activity with impaired mental status that lasts longer than 5 minutes. Initial management of CSE requires rapidly assessing airways, breathing, and circulation; checking the blood glucose level; and administering thiamine with glucose, if needed. These steps should be performed simultaneously with initiation of drug treatment. According to a guideline from the American Epilepsy Society, intramuscular midazolam, intravenous (IV) lorazepam, and IV diazepam have been judged to be equivalent and are the first-line agents for the initial treatment of CSE. Phenytoin, a longer-acting antiseizure drug, should then be administered; if available, fosphenytoin, a prodrug of phenytoin, is preferable to phenytoin for initial treatment of CSE because it can be administered faster and does not carry the risk of thrombophlebitis or skin necrosis (purple glove syndrome) that is associated with phenytoin extravasation. Valproic acid is an alternative to phenytoin or fosphenytoin, particularly in patients with an allergy to phenytoin or primary generalized epilepsy. Therefore, intravenous valproic acid should be administered to this patient as a second-line therapy.
CSE usually is diagnosed clinically. Obtaining an MRI of the brain is an unnecessary time-consuming process and would delay treatment. Once CSE is controlled, head CT usually is indicated because it takes less time and is more readily available in the acute setting.
Electroencephalography could eventually be considered, but, again, the diagnosis of CSE is primarily clinical, and treatment should not be postponed.
Lacosamide, which is available intravenously, sometimes is considered in the management of convulsive status epilepticus. However, evidence is insufficient to recommend it as part of the standard guidelines for initial treatment of generalized CSE, which makes it inappropriate for this patient.
A 2018 systematic review found that supplemental oxygen in patients with normal oxygen saturation increases mortality in critically ill patients. A subsequent international guideline strongly recommends that oxygen therapy not be initiated for critically ill patients with an oxygen saturation of 93% or higher. If supplemental oxygen is initiated, the guideline recommends not exceeding an oxygen saturation of 96%. This patient's oxygen saturation is 97%, and thus his supplemental oxygen also should be reduced.

**Bibliography**

Glauser T, Shinnar S, Gloss D, Alldredge B, Arya R, Bainbridge J, et al. Evidence-based guideline: treatment of convulsive status epilepticus in children and adults: report of the Guideline Committee of the American Epilepsy Society. Epilepsy Curr. 2016;16:48-61. PMID: 26900382 doi:10.5698/1535-7597-16.1.48

This content was last updated in May 2019.