
### Correct Answer: B) Begin treatment for depression 

**Educational Objective:** Treat depression as a cause of memory difficulties in an older patient.

#### **Key Point:** In older patients, depression can frequently masquerade as cognitive impairment; screening and treatment is appropriate in these patients.

This patient should undergo treatment for depression. Depression is common in older adults, although it is both underrecognized and undertreated. In these patients, depression can frequently masquerade as cognitive impairment or multiple somatic complaints, which often results in delayed diagnosis. The patient expresses concern about subjective cognitive changes. However, given his age, the fact that he recently assumed new responsibilities after losing his wife, the limited evidence of memory loss, and the normal findings on cognitive and neurologic examination, a significant cognitive disorder is not likely. His recent decreased appetite, problems falling asleep, and withdrawal from social activities suggest onset of a depressive disorder that is most likely associated with the loss of his wife. Depression is further suggested by the positive Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) score of 9. The GDS has been validated in the older population. The GDS relies less on somatic symptoms and has a simplified yes-or-no format, which may be more conducive to screening those with possible cognitive impairment. Treatment of his depression with close follow-up evaluations is thus most advisable.
Because Alzheimer disease is an unlikely diagnosis in this patient and is unsupported by results of cognitive testing, treatment with an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor is premature and unwarranted at this point.
An MRI without contrast is similarly unwarranted in this patient who has normal scores on screening cognitive evaluation and lacks concerning findings in his history or examination findings.
Although often helpful in patients with cognitive impairment, a complete neuropsychological evaluation is unnecessary in this situation, given the normal findings of the screening examination. This patient's symptoms, including his memory difficulty, are most likely due to depression, and this reversible contributor should be treated first. If treatment results in no alleviation of the symptoms, then further testing can be pursued.

**Bibliography**

Knopman DS, DeKosky ST, Cummings JL, Chui H, Corey-Bloom J, Relkin N, et al. Practice parameter: diagnosis of dementia (an evidence-based review). Report of the Quality Standards Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology. Neurology. 2001;56:1143-53. PMID: 11342678

This content was last updated in August 2018.