
### Correct Answer: C) Ovarian teratoma 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose teratoma-associated anti–N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antibody encephalitis.

#### **Key Point:** Ovarian teratoma–associated anti–N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antibody encephalitis is suggested by the presence of choreoathetosis, psychiatric symptoms, seizures, and autonomic instability.

This patient most likely has an ovarian teratoma. An autoimmune condition termed anti–N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (anti-NMDAR) antibody encephalitis has emerged as an increasingly common cause of encephalitis. Anti-NMDAR antibody encephalitis is associated with ovarian teratomas in more than 50% of patients with the disease because of production of an antibody to a tumor protein that cross-reacts with neuronal tissue. The diagnosis is suggested by the presence of choreoathetosis, psychiatric symptoms, seizures, and autonomic instability and is confirmed by detection of anti-NMDAR antibody in serum. This patient has developed new-onset psychiatric disease and a movement disorder. These symptoms raise suspicion of paraneoplastic or autoimmune encephalitis, and testing confirms the presence of the anti-NMDAR antibody in the serum. Patients are evaluated with CT and/or transvaginal ultrasound. Treatment includes removal of the teratoma to eradicate the immune stimulus and immunosuppression with glucocorticoids or intravenous immune globulin.
Paraneoplastic syndromes associated with breast adenocarcinoma can present as ataxia, brainstem encephalitis, ophthalmoplegia, and parkinsonism. They are most often associated with anti-Ri and anti–glutamic acid decarboxylase antibodies rather than anti-NMDAR antibody.
Unlike small cell lung cancer, non–small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) typically is not associated with neurologic paraneoplastic syndromes. NSCLC, however, may be associated with other paraneoplastic syndromes, including hypercalcemia and hypertrophic osteoarthropathy.
Small cell lung cancer is associated with a host of neurologic paraneoplastic syndromes, including dementia, chorea, ataxia, brainstem encephalitis, and neuropathies, among others. The antibodies associated with these syndromes include anti-Hu, anti-LGI1 (voltage-gated potassium channel), anti-CRMP5 antibodies and rarely the anti-NMDAR antibody.

**Bibliography**

Titulaer MJ, McCracken L, Gabilondo I, Armangué T, Glaser C, Iizuka T, et al. Treatment and prognostic factors for long-term outcome in patients with anti-NMDA receptor encephalitis: an observational cohort study. Lancet Neurol. 2013;12:157-65. PMID: 23290630 doi:10.1016/S1474-4422(12)70310-1

This content was last updated in October 2020.