
### Correct Answer: C) Metoprolol 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent migraine.

#### **Key Point:** Metoprolol, propranolol, timolol, divalproex sodium, and topiramate all have Level A evidence for prevention of episodic migraine and should be considered for migraine occurring at a frequency of at least 5 days per month.

This patient should be treated with metoprolol. Her headaches meet the criteria for episodic migraine without aura. Pharmacologic prevention should be considered for migraine occurring at a frequency of at least 5 days per month. According to guidelines, metoprolol, propranolol, timolol, divalproex sodium, and topiramate all have Level A evidence for prevention of episodic migraine, with atenolol, amitriptyline, and venlafaxine having level B evidence. Approximately a third of patients with episodic migraine meet criteria for pharmacologic prevention, yet only 3% to 13% receive this treatment. The goal of prevention is an at least 50% reduction in headache frequency; reductions in migraine intensity, disability, and cost are other established outcomes. Drug tapering or elimination should be considered after a period of 6 to 12 months of adequate control.
No data support the use of citalopram or other selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor antidepressants in migraine prevention.
Insufficient evidence about the effectiveness of gabapentin in migraine prevention is available; therefore, its use for this purpose is inappropriate.
Onabotulinum toxin A has an FDA indication for the prevention of chronic migraine but is not approved and has no established efficacy in the prevention of episodic migraine. Chronic migraine is defined as headache occurring 15 or more days per month with at least 8 days meeting full criteria for migraine or responding to migraine-specific medication.
Rizatriptan is an effective treatment option for acute migraine. However, this patient is responding well to an NSAID, and no adjustment in acute therapy is warranted. Escalation in headache frequency requires migraine-preventive measures.

**Bibliography**

Silberstein SD, Holland S, Freitag F, Dodick DW, Argoff C, Ashman E; Quality Standards Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology and the American Headache Society. Evidence-based guideline update: pharmacologic treatment for episodic migraine prevention in adults: report of the Quality Standards Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology and the American Headache Society (erratum appears in Neurology. 2013 Feb 26;80(9):871). Neurology. 2012 Apr 24;78(17):1337-45. PMID: 22529202 doi:10.1212/WNL.0b013e3182535d20

This content was last updated in August 2018.