
### Correct Answer: B) Levetiracetam 

**Educational Objective:** Treat juvenile myoclonic epilepsy in a woman with childbearing potential.

#### **Key Point:** In a woman with childbearing potential, levetiracetam and lamotrigine are the most appropriate treatment options because of their relatively low risk of teratogenicity.

Besides discontinuing the oral contraceptive, starting folic acid, and then tapering off valproic acid, this patient should begin taking levetiracetam for her juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME). This type of generalized epilepsy requires a history of myoclonic seizures for diagnosis but is also usually associated with generalized tonic-clonic seizures. In a woman with childbearing potential, levetiracetam and lamotrigine are the most appropriate treatment options because of their relatively low risk of teratogenicity. Levetiracetam is often preferred because lamotrigine can worsen myoclonus in some patients.
Valproic acid is strongly associated with neural tube defects and lower IQ in offspring and should be avoided in women with childbearing potential, unless absolutely necessary. In this patient, who has been seizure free for 10.5 years and has never taken another antiepileptic drug, replacing valproic acid with another medication should be attempted. In patients whose epilepsy is difficult to control with other medications, valproic acid may be continued during pregnancy.
Gabapentin and oxcarbazepine also have a relatively favorable profile in terms of lower fetal risk, but both are known to worsen generalized epilepsy and thus should be avoided in patients with JME.
Maternal topiramate use is associated with cleft lip/palate in offspring. This teratogenic drug should be avoided by women with childbearing potential.
JME most often requires lifelong treatment, even if patients have normal results on testing and are seizure free for many years. Therefore, providing this patient no additional treatment is inappropriate.

**Bibliography**

Crespel A, Gelisse P, Reed RC, Ferlazzo E, Jerney J, Schmitz B, et al. Management of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy. Epilepsy Behav. 2013;28 Suppl 1:S81-6. PMID: 23756489 doi:10.1016/j.yebeh.2013.01.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.