
### Correct Answer: A) Decompressive surgery with radiation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat spinal cord metastases.

#### **Key Point:** Spinal cord compression from metastatic disease requires emergent use of high-dose glucocorticoids and urgent surgical decompression followed by radiation.

This patient should undergo decompressive surgery followed by radiation. This patient most likely has a metastatic extradural lesion from the prostate cancer that has resulted in cord compression. Spinal cord compression due to metastatic disease from most tumor types requires emergent use of high-dose glucocorticoids (dexamethasone, 20 mg) followed by maintenance glucocorticoids until definitive therapy with urgent surgical decompression followed by radiation is possible. Certain radiosensitive tumor types, such as leukemia, lymphoma, myeloma, and germ cell tumors, may not require initial surgical decompression and may be treated urgently with radiation therapy followed by chemotherapy. Surgical intervention sometimes is deferred in patients with a poor prognosis for long-term survival or with a low functional status. However, in appropriate patients, clinical trials have shown the superiority of surgical decompression followed by radiation compared with radiation alone in optimizing ambulation in patients younger than 65 years.
Laminectomy, in which the lamina (the back part of the vertebra covering the spinal canal) is removed to create more space, is not preferable to decompressive surgery, in which regions of the vertebra infiltrated by tumor are removed and reconstructed. In fact, radiation alone is superior to laminectomy in this patient because it would address the metastatic lesion.
Spinal angiography is appropriate to use in the diagnosis and treatment of a spinal dural arteriovenous fistula (AVF) or a spinal arteriovenous malformation (AVM) but not for a T8 vertebral body with invasion into the epidural space. An AVF or an AVM would result in vascular-appearing lesions (usually associated with flow voids) on T2-weighted imaging.

**Bibliography**

George R, Jeba J, Ramkumar G, Chacko AG, Tharyan P. Interventions for the treatment of metastatic extradural spinal cord compression in adults. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015:CD006716. PMID: 26337716 doi:10.1002/14651858.CD006716.pub3

This content was last updated in August 2018.