
### Correct Answer: A) Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.

#### **Key Point:** Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is a transmissible prion-related disorder characterized by rapidly progressive dementia, myoclonus, sleep problems, and other psychiatric symptoms; typical imaging findings include an increased signal in the cortex and subcortical structures on diffusion-weighted MRI sequences.

This patient most likely has Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD). CJD is the most common form of prion disease in humans, with most cases being sporadic. Iatrogenic transmission of CJD is possible and has resulted mainly from receipt of growth hormone prepared from cadaveric pituitaries and contaminated cadaveric dura mater allografts. Contaminated surgical instruments have also been documented to transmit CJD in rare instances. Sporadic CJD does not appear to be transmissible by blood. Brain MRIs typically show a pattern of increased intensity in the diffusion-weighted sequence in the basal ganglia and various cortical regions.
Periodic sharp wave complexes are often seen on electroencephalography. Elevated levels of tau and 14-3-3 proteins in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) also are typical but not necessary for diagnosis. Although rapidly progressive dementia has a broad differential diagnosis, CJD is very likely if it is accompanied by myoclonus, sleep problems, and other psychiatric symptoms. Progressive neurologic decline resulting in death occurs rapidly, typically within 6 to 12 months.
HIV encephalopathy is characterized by a subacute syndrome of cognitive and motor dysfunction. Although HIV screening is standard for rapid-onset dementia, the electroencephalographic and MRI findings are inconsistent with a diagnosis of acute HIV encephalopathy.
Lyme disease can be responsible for a seldom-reported inflammatory encephalomyelitis. The disease often mimics multiple sclerosis, with MRI abnormalities of the brain or spinal cord and abnormal CSF findings, including increased total immunoglobulin and oligoclonal bands. The patient's rapidly progressive dementia, myoclonus, psychiatric symptoms, and normal CSF findings are not compatible with this diagnosis.
Wernicke encephalopathy is an acute neuropsychiatric syndrome characterized by the triad of nystagmus and ophthalmoplegia, mental status changes, and ataxia. It is caused by thiamine deficiency, most often in patients who abuse alcohol, but can be seen in patients being treated for cancer, those with chronic vomiting or malnutrition, or those who have had gastrointestinal surgery, in particular bariatric surgery. The patient's findings are not compatible with Wernicke encephalopathy.

**Bibliography**

Geschwind MD. Rapidly Progressive Dementia. Continuum (Minneap Minn). 2016;22:510-37. PMID: 27042906 doi:10.1212/CON.0000000000000319

This content was last updated in August 2018.