
### Correct Answer: C) Donepezil 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient who has dementia with Lewy bodies and acute agitation with donepezil.

#### **Key Point:** Haloperidol is absolutely contraindicated in dementia with Lewy bodies; donepezil is a safer alternative and may improve the behavioral and cognitive symptoms associated with dementia.

This patient should be treated with donepezil. Delirium is a potentially preventable syndrome associated with other medical disorders, the adverse effects of medication, or drug withdrawal. Preexisting cognitive impairment is the major predisposing factor for delirium. With treatment, delirium typically resolves within days. Environmental interventions include orienting strategies (reliance on calendars, clocks, and familiar objects in the room), promoting a normal sleep-wake cycle (having no or limited interruptions during nocturnal sleeping hours, minimizing light and noise at night, and opening curtains and encouraging activity during the daytime), identifying and correcting sensory impairments, avoiding physical restraints, and early discontinuation of catheters and intravenous lines. This patient has dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and has developed acute agitation and delirium associated with a concurrent urinary tract infection (UTI). He should continue to receive therapy for the UTI until it resolves. The treatment of acute agitation in patients with dementia is challenging, and no medications are FDA approved for the treatment of delirium. Atypical and typical antipsychotic agents have a black-box safety warning when used in patients with underlying dementia. Although not formally approved for DLB, donepezil can be effective in treating the behavioral and cognitive symptoms associated with the disorder; controlled clinical trials, however, remain inconclusive. Because donepezil (or any other medication) has not been shown to be efficacious for DLB in high level, well-conducted trials, its use is based on expert opinion at this time. Nevertheless, donepezil is likely the safest and most efficacious medication for this patient.
Benzodiazepines (such as alprazolam) and diphenhydramine have a strong potential for worsening delirium symptoms in an older population and thus should be avoided in this patient.
Haloperidol is absolutely contraindicated in DLB because of the risk of significant worsening of the dementia syndrome. In addition, the patient is not aggressive at this point and is unlikely to harm himself or others, so antipsychotic agents are unnecessary, as are medications with a strong sedating effect (such as diphenhydramine).

**Bibliography**

Cummings J, Lai TJ, Hemrungrojn S, Mohandas E, Yun Kim S, Nair G, et al. Role of donepezil in the management of neuropsychiatric symptoms in Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. CNS Neurosci Ther. 2016;22:159-66. PMID: 26778658 doi:10.1111/cns.12484

This content was last updated in August 2018.