
### Correct Answer: C) Huntington disease 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Huntington disease.

#### **Key Point:** Huntington disease is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by psychiatric disease, impulsivity, and clinical examination findings of executive dysfunction, dysarthria, incoordination, and ataxia; chorea is a major manifestation of Huntington disease.

The most likely diagnosis is Huntington disease. His history of psychiatric disease, impulsivity, and substance abuse and clinical examination findings of executive dysfunction, dysarthria, incoordination, and ataxia are consistent with Huntington disease. His nonsuppressible flowing and variable movements are consistent with chorea, a major manifestation of Huntington disease. A positive family history is common in patients affected by this autosomal dominant disorder, but in its absence, a family history of associated conditions is suggestive. His father's prominent psychiatric disease may have led to suicide before onset of the motor features of Huntington disease; young-onset parkinsonism is a common presentation in younger patients with the disease. Tetrabenazine and deutetrabenazine are the most appropriate treatments of chorea in this disorder.
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is the most common form of prion disease in humans. Onset usually occurs in the seventh decade of life. The most prominent neurologic sign is disordered cognition. Typically, patients also have motor signs, such as ataxia or spasticity, vague sensory problems, or changes in visual perception. Myoclonus is common. Progressive neurologic decline resulting in death occurs rapidly, typically within 6 to 12 months. This patient's duration of symptoms is likely too long for CJD.
Behavioral-variant frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is associated with prominent changes in behavior, personality, or executive function. Apathy, diminished interest, loss of empathy, lack of initiative, increased emotionality, disinhibition, euphoria, impulsivity, changes in eating behaviors, hyperorality, and compulsiveness are the most common symptoms. Motor neuron disease, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, is seen in approximately 15% of patients preceding, simultaneous with, or after the diagnosis of FTD. Chorea is not typical.
The four cardinal signs of Parkinson disease are resting tremor, bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, and gait/postural impairment. Resting tremor is characteristically unilateral at onset and remains asymmetric. This patient's clinical features, including impulsivity, ataxia, hyperreflexia, and unprovoked chorea, are not consistent with Parkinson disease.

**Bibliography**

Dayalu P, Albin RL. Huntington disease: pathogenesis and treatment. Neurol Clin. 2015;33:101-14. PMID: 25432725 doi:10.1016/j.ncl.2014.09.003

This content was last updated in August 2018.