
### Correct Answer: B) Head CT without contrast 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a mild traumatic brain injury.

#### **Key Point:** Guidelines recommend imaging with noncontrast CT for patients with mild traumatic brain injury (TBI) who are exposed to dangerous mechanisms of injury, such as falls from greater than 3 feet or 5 stairs, vehicular ejection, or vehicle-pedestrian motor vehicle collisions; other indications for head CT in mild TBI include age older than 60 years, severe headache, vomiting, Glasgow Coma Scale score of less than 15, focal deficit(s), posttraumatic seizure, coagulopathy, or persistent drowsiness or amnesia.

This patient should have CT of the head without contrast. He sustained a mild traumatic brain injury (TBI), defined as head injury due to contact and/or acceleration or deceleration forces, and now reports headache. Guidelines recommend imaging with noncontrast CT for patients exposed to mechanisms of injury perceived to be dangerous. These include falls from greater than 3 feet or 5 stairs, vehicular ejection, or vehicle-pedestrian motor vehicle collisions. Age greater than 60 years also is considered an indication for imaging, as are severe headache, vomiting, Glasgow Coma Scale score less than 15, focal deficit(s), posttraumatic seizure, coagulopathy, or persistent drowsiness or amnesia. Most patients with mild TBI will not require brain imaging.
Contrast administration with CT is helpful in the evaluation of malignant, vascular, and some inflammatory disorders of the nervous system. However, the addition of contrast to head CT adds nothing to the evaluation of acute head injury. Visualization of skull fracture and acute intracranial hemorrhage is best accomplished through noncontrasted head CT.
Hospital observation of patients with mild TBI may be indicated for those with intractable headache or vomiting, focal neurologic deficits, or persistent impairment of memory or consciousness but not for this patient with less severe symptoms. In all of these settings, however, patients should first undergo head CT to exclude intracranial hemorrhage. Hospital admission without imaging would be inappropriate for patients with TBI.
Intravenous prochlorperazine is indicated in the management of acute migraine in the emergency department. This patient describes neither nausea nor headache compatible with migraine.

**Bibliography**

Jagoda AS, Bazarian JJ, Bruns JJ, et al; American College of Emergency Physicians; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Clinical policy: neuroimaging and decision making in adult mild traumatic brain injury in the acute setting. Ann Emerg Med. 2008;52(6):714-48. PMID: 19027497 doi: 10.1016/j.annemergmed.2008.08.021

This content was last updated in August 2018.