
### Correct Answer: D) Myasthenia gravis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose myasthenia gravis.

#### **Key Point:** In a patient with fluctuating weakness of the cervical muscles that worsens in the evening, myasthenia gravis should be suspected; weakness of cervical extension is a hallmark of muscle-specific kinase antibody–positive myasthenia gravis.

Myasthenia gravis can present with pronounced weakness of cervical or bulbar muscles. Fluctuation in weakness, with a fatigable pattern that worsens later in the day, suggests this neuromuscular junction disorder. In the setting of probable myasthenia gravis, seronegative status for acetylcholine receptor antibodies should trigger testing for muscle-specific kinase (MuSK) antibodies, which are positive in half of seronegative patients. Weakness of cervical extension, such as this patient exhibits, is a hallmark of MuSK antibody–positive myasthenia gravis. Although nerve conduction studies using a special protocol for repetitive stimulation can reveal a pattern of decrementing weakness in neuromuscular junction disorders, this protocol is not part of routine electromyography. Therefore, if suspicion for myasthenia gravis is high, a repetitive stimulation protocol should be specifically requested.
Although amyotrophic lateral sclerosis can present with prominent bulbar and cervical weakness, the fluctuating nature of the weakness, the absence of tongue weakness or fasciculations and of upper motor neuron signs, and the negative electromyography (EMG) findings make this an unlikely diagnosis.
Inclusion body myositis is a progressive inflammatory myopathy that can present with bulbar, forearm flexor, and quadriceps weakness. The absence of additional muscle involvement, the normal creatine kinase level, and the normal limb findings on needle EMG rule out this entity.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) can cause bulbar weakness secondary to central demyelination. Focal neck extensor weakness is atypical. The patient's history and normal MRI exclude MS.
Polymyositis also can present with head drop, but often proximal limb muscles are involved. In addition, a normal creatine kinase level and normal results on routine limb EMG rule out this entity.

**Bibliography**

Sanders DB, Guptill JT. Myasthenia gravis and Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome. Continuum (Minneap Minn). 2014;20:1413-25. PMID: 25299290 doi:10.1212/01.CON.0000455873.30438.9b

This content was last updated in August 2018.