
### Correct Answer: C) Mild cognitive impairment 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose mild cognitive impairment.

#### **Key Point:** Mild cognitive impairment is a cognitive state between normal aging and dementia characterized by a decline in cognitive functioning that is greater than what is expected with normal aging but has not resulted in significant functional disability.

The patient's symptoms of subjective cognitive problems, near-normal function, and objective cognitive impairment (score of 1/5 on the delayed recall section of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment) are most consistent with a diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment (MCI), amnestic type. MCI is a cognitive state between normal aging and dementia characterized by a decline in cognitive functioning that is greater than what is expected with normal aging but has not resulted in significant functional disability. The suggestive MRI evidence of minimal hippocampal atrophy is a biomarker conferring a risk of symptom progression. Given her objective performance on cognitive tests and the noted MRI changes, the patient has an annual risk of developing Alzheimer disease of 5% to 15%.
In contrast to MCI, dementia is a progressive deterioration of cognitive function severe enough to impair occupational or social functioning. Alzheimer disease is the most common type of dementia (60%-80%). Whereas typical Alzheimer disease presents with the insidious development of recent memory loss, as this patient has experienced, she lacks the functional impairment that is a hallmark of dementia.
Multiple relationships between depression and cognitive impairment have been reported in the literature: late-life depression may lead to prodromal Alzheimer disease; depression may be a risk factor for future development of cognitive impairment, dementia, and Alzheimer disease; cerebrovascular disease can precipitate late-life depression; and cognitive impairment itself can lead to depression. More than half of patients with late-life major depression exhibit clinically significant cognitive impairment, most frequently affecting processing speed, executive function, and visuospatial ability. However, this patient's depression screening was negative, and thus depression is unlikely to account for her symptoms.
Normal aging can be associated with memory problems, but cognitive testing shows functioning within the normal range. In contrast, this patient's verbal learning and memory performance are 2 SDs below that of an age- and education-matched control population and are not consistent with normal aging.

**Bibliography**

Petersen RC. Clinical practice. Mild cognitive impairment. N Engl J Med. 2011;364:2227-34. PMID: 21651394 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp0910237

This content was last updated in August 2018.