
### Correct Answer: D) Urodynamic testing 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate urinary symptoms in patients with multiple sclerosis.

#### **Key Point:** In a patient with multiple sclerosis and mixed urinary symptoms that suggest both a hypertonic and a hypotonic bladder, urodynamic testing to guide medication choices is appropriate, as are the potential use of urinary catheterization and monitoring of postvoid residuals while the patient is treated.

This patient should undergo urodynamic testing. Her symptoms and history of multiple sclerosis (MS) suggest the presence of a neurogenic bladder. Given the mix of symptoms of urgency and frequency (symptoms of an overactive, spastic bladder) plus hesitancy and retention (symptoms of a hypotonic bladder or overactive sphincter), the patient has aspects of both hypertonic and hypotonic bladder. She also may have bladder-sphincter dyssynergia, in which the contraction of the bladder wall is not properly timed with relaxation of the urinary sphincter. Management of complicated forms of neurogenic bladder involves proper diagnosis through urodynamic testing (which will guide medication choices), potential use of urinary catheterization, and monitoring of postvoid residuals while the patient is treated to avoid urinary retention. Involvement of a urologist is often required.
Dalfampridine has been shown to improve walking speed in patients with MS. Although the patient says that incontinence occurs when she is unable to get to the bathroom fast enough, use of this medication would not address the underlying cause of her urinary symptoms. Further, frequent urinary tract infections are a common adverse effect of this medication, and thus using it without first addressing her current urinary symptoms would be counter-productive.
Urinary frequency and urgency are more readily managed than other patterns of bladder dysfunction and are often amenable to abstinence from caffeine, timed voids, and anticholinergic medications, such as oxybutynin or tolterodine. Patients with urinary hesitancy or retention, such as this patient, should not be treated with anticholinergic agents because these medications can worsen retention and lead to predisposition to urinary tract infections. This patient with mixed bladder symptoms should be evaluated with urodynamic testing.
Solifenacin has been shown to reduce symptoms of overactive bladder in patients with MS. However, this patient's mixed bladder symptoms suggest that she is prone to urinary retention. Use of this medication without concurrent use of catheterization and monitoring of postvoid residuals would result in worsened urinary retention and predispose the patient to more frequent urinary tract infections and, possibly, bladder cancer.

**Bibliography**

Phé V, Chartier-Kastler E, Panicker JN. Management of neurogenic bladder in patients with multiple sclerosis. Nat Rev Urol. 2016;13:275-88. PMID: 27030526 doi:10.1038/nrurol.2016.53

This content was last updated in August 2018.