
### Correct Answer: D) Intravenous heparin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat pulmonary embolism in patients with primary brain tumors.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with glioblastoma multiforme and pulmonary embolism, anticoagulation with heparin is the most appropriate treatment.

This patient should receive intravenous heparin. Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a common complication in patients with brain tumors, occurring in up to 30% of patients with high-grade glioma. Risk of VTE is correlated with higher-grade malignancies and is associated with release of the potent procoagulant tissue factor. Other factors, including immobilization and recent surgery, increase the risk. The risk of intracranial hemorrhage with the use of anticoagulants complicates the management of VTE in patients with brain tumor, including patients undergoing brain surgery. Although brain tumors have a risk of hemorrhage, therapeutic anticoagulation is generally considered safe. Intravenous heparin is the best choice for this patient because it has a short half-life and is reversible should hemorrhage occur. Although evidence does not support routine use of preanticoagulation neuroimaging to assess for hemorrhage, noncontrast head CT can be considered and is the most cost-effective test in this situation.
Apixaban is not indicated. Although non–vitamin K oral anticoagulants are a recommended therapy for VTE, evidence is insufficient to support their use in the setting of central nervous system tumors.
Inferior vena cava (IVC) filter placement is not indicated. IVC filters incur an increased risk of subsequent deep venous thrombosis and should be reserved for patients with an absolute contraindication to anticoagulation. The presence of a primary brain tumor and recent biopsy do not absolutely preclude anticoagulation.
Alteplase, a tissue plasminogen activator, is contraindicated in most CNS tumors. This class of drugs can be considered in low-risk tumors, such as meningioma, but not high-risk tumors, such as glioblastoma multiforme.
Subcutaneous low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) is an effective treatment for VTE but should be avoided in this patient because of her kidney dysfunction. LMWH also lacks an effective reversal agent and has a prolonged duration of action, making it a less optimal choice in a patient at increased risk of bleeding.

**Bibliography**

Jo JT, Schiff D, Perry JR. Thrombosis in brain tumors. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2014;40:325-31. PMID: 24599439 doi:10.1055/s-0034-1370791

This content was last updated in March 2021.