
### Correct Answer: D) POEMS syndrome 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose POEMS syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** POEMS syndrome is characterized by the presence of a monoclonal plasma cell disorder, peripheral neuropathy, and one or more of the following: osteosclerotic myeloma, Castleman disease (angiofollicular lymph node hyperplasia), elevated serum vascular endothelial growth factor, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, edema, typical skin changes, and papilledema.

The most likely diagnosis is POEMS syndrome (polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal gammopathy, and skin changes). POEMS syndrome is characterized by the presence of a monoclonal plasma cell disorder, peripheral neuropathy, and one or more of the following: osteosclerotic myeloma, Castleman disease (angiofollicular lymph node hyperplasia), elevated serum vascular endothelial growth factor, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, edema, typical skin changes, and papilledema. His clinical presentation, including splenomegaly, skin lesions (hyperpigmentation and angiomas), endocrine disease (hypothyroidism), peripheral neuropathy, and λ monoclonal gammopathy support the diagnosis of POEMS syndrome. POEMS syndrome is typically secondary to an underlying cancer; identification and treatment of the underlying cancer leads to improvement of the neuropathy.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is characterized by upper motor neuron signs (such as hyperreflexia, spasticity, and an extensor plantar response) coexistent with lower motor neuron findings (such as atrophy and fasciculation). Sensory deficits are characteristically absent, and sensory nerve conduction studies are often normal in ALS. These findings are not consistent with this patient's presentation.
The classic presentation of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) is generalized areflexia and progressive or relapsing symmetric sensory and motor neuropathy. CIDP resembles POEMS syndrome in its neurologic manifestations, but the presence of monoclonal gammopathy, splenomegaly, and skin changes makes this diagnosis unlikely.
Mitochondrial myopathy can present with significant variability and may cause fatigue, myalgia, ophthalmoplegia, and various extramuscular manifestations. Mitochondrial myopathies should be suspected in the presence of multiorgan involvement and maternal transmission. In this patient, the presence of sensory deficits and neuropathic findings on needle electromyography are not consistent with a myopathy.

**Bibliography**

Rison RA, Beydoun SR. Paraproteinemic neuropathy: a practical review. BMC Neurol. 2016;16:13. PMID: 26821540 doi:10.1186/s12883-016-0532-4

This content was last updated in August 2018.