
### Correct Answer: B) Idiopathic brachial plexopathy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose idiopathic brachial plexopathy.

#### **Key Point:** Idiopathic brachial plexopathy is characterized by subacute severe pain followed by resolution of pain and progressive weakness and atrophy involving the shoulder girdle and upper extremity muscles; this syndrome often is triggered by a preceding event, such as an infection or surgery.

Idiopathic brachial plexopathy (also known as neuralgic amyotrophy and Parsonage-Turner syndrome) is characterized by subacute severe pain followed by resolution of pain and progressive weakness and atrophy involving the shoulder girdle and upper extremity muscles. This syndrome often is triggered by a preceding event, such an infection or surgery. In this patient, motor and sensory involvement in the territory of multiple nerves and roots is consistent with a process involving the brachial plexus. Imaging rules out a pathologic process at the level of the cervical spine. An iatrogenic traumatic plexopathy caused by surgery is unlikely, given the absence of weakness immediately after the procedure and the abdominal location of the procedure.
Although compressive polyradiculopathy secondary to degenerative spinal disease can simulate plexopathy, with a presentation consisting of mixed motor, sensory, and pain symptoms in multiple nerve root distributions, negative cervical imaging rules out this entity in this patient.
Lambert-Eaton syndrome is associated with neuromuscular junction dysfunction. Sensory deficits, prominent pain, and focal weakness are atypical.
Statins can cause a toxic myopathy, but sensory deficits are not expected findings in myopathies, and asymmetry also is atypical. Moreover, in this patient, rapid weakness appeared after resolution of pain, whereas in statin myopathy, pain often persists along with muscle necrosis–induced weakness.

**Bibliography**

Van Eijk JJ, Groothuis JT, Van Alfen N. Neuralgic amyotrophy: an update on diagnosis, pathophysiology, and treatment. Muscle Nerve. 2016;53:337-50. PMID: 26662794 doi:10.1002/mus.25008

This content was last updated in August 2018.