
### Correct Answer: B) Deep brain stimulation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat advanced Parkinson disease.

#### **Key Point:** Deep brain stimulation is appropriate for patients with Parkinson disease who derive a continued benefit from carbidopa-levodopa but experience medication-related complications.

This patient should have deep brain stimulation, which is indicated for patients with advanced Parkinson disease who derive a continued benefit from carbidopa-levodopa but experience medication-related complications. The patient has two common levodopa-related complications: motor fluctuations (caused by the wearing off of the beneficial effects of the medication before the next dose is administered) and medication-induced dyskinesia (involuntary choreic movements). Attempting to increase the dose of levodopa to mitigate the “wearing-off” phenomenon resulted in dyskinesia, nausea, and hypotension. Deep brain stimulation enables a persistent motor benefit and reduction of the total levodopa dosage, which would diminish the levodopa-induced adverse effects, including dyskinesia, nausea, and orthostatic hypotension.
Apomorphine is a fast-acting subcutaneous dopamine agonist that is indicated for rapid relief of symptoms caused by sudden wearing off of a Parkinson medication. It is inappropriate for this patient, who experiences predictable episodes of wearing off of the carbidopa-levodopa benefit before she takes the next dose. Apomorphine also does not address the dyskinesia or nausea.
Droxidopa has been approved for management of neurogenic orthostatic hypotension in Parkinson disease. This treatment, however, would not improve the wearing off of the dopaminergic medication before the next dose or the patient's other symptoms of gait freezing, dyskinesia, and medication-induced nausea.
Rotigotine, a dopamine agonist, can worsen both nausea and orthostatic hypotension. Additionally, an overall increase in dopaminergic medication dosing is likely to aggravate dyskinesia.

**Bibliography**

Okun MS. Deep-brain stimulation for Parkinson's disease. N Engl J Med. 2012;367:1529-38. PMID: 23075179 doi:10.1056/NEJMct1208070

This content was last updated in August 2018.