
### Correct Answer: B) Clonidine administration 

**Educational Objective:** Treat Tourette syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** First-line agents used to treat Tourette syndrome when the associated tics interfere with education, daily function, or work are clonidine, guanfacine, topiramate, and tetrabenazine.

This patient should be treated with clonidine. The suppressible stereotyped neck movements and premonitory sensory cues are consistent with motor tics, and the history of other motor (eye rolling) and vocal (throat clearing) tics, childhood onset, duration of greater than 1 year, and comorbidity of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) are consistent with the diagnosis of Tourette syndrome. Clonidine is a first-line agent used to treat Tourette syndrome. Anti-tic medications should be considered when tics interfere with education, daily function, or work. Other first-line medications include guanfacine, topiramate, and the dopamine-depleter agent tetrabenazine. Second-line treatments include antipsychotic agents (such as haloperidol), but their benefit should be weighed against risk of tardive dyskinesia.
Although botulinum toxin can be considered as an off-label option in the treatment of severe refractory cervical tics, this patient has not yet tried medication to control her tics. Botulinum toxin also is indicated in the treatment of cervical dystonia, but this disorder is not consistent with her clinical findings of suppressibility and the absence of sustained motor activity.
Treatment of mild tics includes reassurance, treatment of psychiatric comorbidities (such as the sertraline she already takes for OCD), and cognitive behavioral therapy to teach patients about tic diversion techniques (such as the foot taps she initiates after sensory premonitory cues). Given that this patient's symptoms have persisted, pharmacologic therapy for Tourette syndrome is appropriate.
Haloperidol should not be considered before a trial of first-line anti-tic medications is attempted. Clonidine appears to be better tolerated than antidopaminergic drugs, such as haloperidol or risperidone. Additionally, the tardive dyskinesia that can result from neuroleptic agents may take months to years to resolve after discontinuation of the culprit drug.

**Bibliography**

Kurlan RM. Treatment of Tourette syndrome. Neurotherapeutics. 2014;11:161-5. PMID: 24043501 doi:10.1007/s13311-013-0215-4

This content was last updated in August 2018.