
### Correct Answer: B) Sumatriptan 

**Educational Objective:** Treat migraine with aura.

#### **Key Point:** For patients with a history of episodic migraine with typical aura that no longer responds to appropriate NSAIDs, guidelines recommend the use of triptans.

This patient should be treated with sumatriptan. He has a history of episodic migraine with typical aura that is no longer responsive to appropriate NSAIDs. Guidelines recommend the use of triptans in patients with moderate to severe migraine for whom NSAID therapies are not effective. Triptans (5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 1B [5-HT1B] and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 1D [5-HT1D] agonists) are migraine-specific agents with a direct impact on the trigeminovascular activation associated with migraine attacks. Activation of the 5-HT1B receptor reverses vasodilation. Binding to the 5-HT1D receptors on trigeminal nerve terminals blocks release of vasoactive and inflammatory mediators, such as calcitonin gene–related peptide. This second action is likely more important in the interruption of nociceptive transmission. Unless medication overuse headache is a concern, patients should be advised to treat at the first sign of pain. Because migraine intensity is highly variable, occasional attacks that are less responsive to medication are to be expected. Contraindications include coronary, cerebral, or peripheral vascular disease; uncontrolled hypertension; and migraine with brainstem or hemiplegic auras.
Guidelines recommend against the use of opioid agents, such as hydrocodone, in migraine management. Concerns include the potential for dependence or addiction and, more importantly, an increased risk of transformation from episodic to chronic migraine. In patients with migraine, opioids are associated with a 44% increase in risk of headache progression over 1 year and butalbital compounds with a 70% increase. Both drug classes should be used cautiously and only when more appropriate acute therapies are contraindicated.
Level A evidence exists for migraine prevention with topiramate. Because this patient has only two episodes of migraine per month, prophylactic medication is not indicated.
Verapamil has no established benefit in the acute treatment or prevention of migraine.

**Bibliography**

Marmura MJ, Silberstein SD, Schwedt TJ. The acute treatment of migraine in adults: the American Headache Society evidence assessment of migraine pharmacotherapies. Headache. 2015;55(1):3-20. PMID: 25600718 doi: 10.1111/head.12499

This content was last updated in August 2018.