
### Correct Answer: B) Convulsive syncope 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose convulsive syncope.

#### **Key Point:** Convulsive syncope is a seizure type typically associated with tunnel vision, palpitations, short duration of loss of consciousness (&lt;1 minute), movements and shaking, and immediate and complete neurologic recovery.

The patient most likely had an episode of convulsive syncope. Syncope is nontraumatic, complete transient loss of consciousness and loss of postural tone. Onset is abrupt and recovery is spontaneous, rapid, and complete. Neurally mediated syncope, the most common type of syncope, generally occurs with standing and is associated with a prodrome of nausea, lightheadedness, and warmth. It may follow cough, urination, defecation, pain, or laughing. This patient's tunnel vision, palpitations, short duration of loss of consciousness (<1 minute), and immediate and complete neurologic recovery is typical of syncope. Movements and shaking (in this instance, nonepileptic myoclonus) are common with syncope. In fact, syncope without any movements is the exception rather than the rule.
Atonic seizures can be associated with falling and brief loss of consciousness with decreased tone, but their duration is much briefer (a few seconds only) than that of syncope, and they usually do not have warning symptoms, such as tunnel vision or palpitations.
Generalized tonic-clonic seizures have increased tone at the onset (tonic phase), followed by rhythmic, synchronous jerking of all limbs (clonic phase), typically for more than 1 minute. These seizures are followed by confusion, lethargy, and (sometimes) combativeness. This patient's seizure, especially her normal neurologic state after regaining consciousness, does not match this description.
Myoclonic seizures are very brief, typically lasting less than 1 second, and usually involve synchronous limb jerking (all limbs shaking together at the same time). The duration of this patient's seizure and her asynchronous limb jerking are not consistent with myoclonic seizure.
Tonic seizures may involve brief loss of consciousness and falling, but there is no associated aura (prodrome or warning symptoms). Additionally, patients generally have increased tone that leads to the fall.

**Bibliography**

Lempert T, Bauer M, Schmidt D. Syncope: a videometric analysis of 56 episodes of transient cerebral hypoxia. Ann Neurol. 1994;36:233-7. PMID: 8053660 doi: 10.1002/ana.410360217

This content was last updated in August 2018.