
### Correct Answer: D) Polysomnography 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate for stroke-related sleep-disordered breathing with polysomnography.

#### **Key Point:** Sleep-disordered breathing is highly prevalent in patients with any form of stroke, and the best diagnostic test is polysomnography.

This patient should undergo polysomnography. Sleep-disordered breathing is highly prevalent in patients with any form of stroke and is a leading cause of fatigue, headaches, and difficult-to-control hypertension in these patients. Given her recent stroke and elevated BMI, she is at particularly high risk for sleep-disordered breathing, which is best detected by polysomnography. Measurement tools, such as the Epworth Sleepiness Scale, also may help in patients with stroke but have not been well validated in this population. Treatment of sleep-disordered breathing can improve this patient's energy level, fatigue, and blood pressure.
Discontinuation of atorvastatin would be reasonable only if the patient were experiencing significant adverse effects, such as myalgia, rhabdomyolysis, or persistently elevated liver transaminase levels. Atorvastatin is effective in reducing the risk of recurrent ischemic stroke and is a key component of secondary risk reduction in this patient. Fatigue may be a side effect of atorvastatin but would not prompt discontinuation of the medication.
Fluoxetine should not be initiated in this patient, who already is taking another antidepressant medication and has no symptoms of depression other than fatigue. Although fluoxetine has been studied as an agent to promote motor recovery independent of its effect on depression in the acute stroke setting, the current evidence supporting this indication is lacking.
An MRI of the brain may be indicated if there is concern for a specific intracranial structural process, such as a new stroke or an underlying intracranial mass. These processes, however, are usually associated with specific neurologic symptoms or focal neurologic findings on examination. Fatigue is a nonspecific symptom that is not attributable to a specific region of the brain and is unlikely to be the sole clinical manifestation of a new stroke or mass.

**Bibliography**

Kernan WN, Ovbiagele B, Black HR, Bravata DM, Chimowitz MI, Ezekowitz MD, et al; American Heart Association Stroke Council, Council on Cardiovascular and Stroke Nursing, Council on Clinical Cardiology, and Council on Peripheral Vascular Disease. Guidelines for the prevention of stroke in patients with stroke and transient ischemic attack: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke. 2014;45:2160-236. PMID: 24788967 doi:10.1161/STR.0000000000000024

This content was last updated in August 2018.