
### Correct Answer: B) Glatiramer acetate 

**Educational Objective:** Treat multiple sclerosis in a patient with hepatic disease.

#### **Key Point:** Interferon beta preparations or glatiramer acetate are considered first-line agents for relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, given their favorable risk profiles; glatiramer acetate is preferred in patients with liver disease.

This patient should receive glatiramer acetate. He has newly diagnosed multiple sclerosis (MS) and should begin a disease-modifying therapy. Definitive treatment of MS relies less on addressing relapses as they occur than on preventing relapse occurrence (and the associated accrual of disability) in the first place. This prevention is achieved with MS disease-modifying therapies, a series of immunomodulatory or immunosuppressive medications that have been shown to reduce the risk of relapse, disability progression, and new lesion formation on MRI. Several disease-modifying therapies have been approved by the FDA for use in relapsing-remitting MS, each differing in their route of administration, mechanism of action, and potential adverse effects. Generally, most physicians recommend self-injection medications (one of the interferon beta preparations or glatiramer acetate) as first-line agents, given their favorable risk profiles. Glatiramer acetate, a copolymer of four amino acids, is administered daily or several times weekly by subcutaneous injection. Glatiramer acetate and high-dose interferon beta formulations exhibit similar reductions in relapse rates compared with placebo and are equivalent in head-to-head studies. In choosing which therapy is most appropriate to recommend, the clinician should consider all comorbid conditions. Given the patient's history of liver disease, the most appropriate treatment is glatiramer acetate. This medication has no known adverse effects on liver function.
Liver dysfunction is a potential adverse effect of fingolimod, the interferon beta preparations, and natalizumab. Therefore, none of these drugs would be the best choice for this patient. Additionally, natalizumab is recommended for patients who have not responded to previous disease-modifying therapy. Because this patient has not yet been treated for his MS, use of natalizumab as a first-line agent would be inappropriate.

**Bibliography**

Wingerchuk DM, Weinshenker BG. Disease modifying therapies for relapsing multiple sclerosis. BMJ. 2016;354:i3518. PMID: 27549763 doi:10.1136/bmj.i3518

This content was last updated in August 2018.