
### Correct Answer: A) Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

#### **Key Point:** Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is characterized by upper motor neuron signs (hyperreflexia, spasticity, and an extensor plantar response) coexistent with lower motor neuron findings (atrophy and fasciculation); sensory deficits are characteristically absent.

This patient most likely has amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Diagnosis requires fulfillment of positive diagnostic criteria and exclusion of mimics. Positive diagnostic criteria for ALS include the presence of clinical upper (hyperreflexia, Hoffman sign, clonus) and lower (atrophy, fasciculation, weakness) motor neuron signs and electromyographic lower motor neuron signs in two (probable ALS) or more (definitive ALS) body regions (upper and lower limbs, paraspinal, bulbar). Because hyperthyroidism can lead to a combination of upper and lower motor neuron findings that may mimic ALS, it must be excluded before diagnosis. Other important mimics include structural brain and cervical spinal lesions, vitamin B12 and copper deficiency, Lyme disease, and hyperparathyroidism.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) disease is an inherited neuropathy arising from mutations in several genes encoding for myelin formation, structure, and function. The two most common forms are demyelinating (CMT1) and axonal (CMT2). Both share the clinical features of numbness, distal extremity weakness, unsteady gait, areflexia, high arches, hammer toes, and atrophy of distal extremity muscles and foreleg muscles (“stork leg” deformity). This patient's findings are not consistent with CMT disease.
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis is an antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody–associated vasculitis. Areas most commonly affected by the vasculitis include the airways, lung parenchyma, kidneys, skin, eyes, and nervous system. The vasculitic neuropathy can present as mononeuropathy multiplex and are associated with focal or multifocal weakness. However, these entities are associated with pain and sensory deficits and not with upper motor neuron signs.
The Miller Fisher variant of Guillain-Barré syndrome typically presents with subacute ataxia, areflexia, and ophthalmoplegia, with or without diffuse weakness. Antibodies to GQ1b (a ganglioside component of nerve) are present in more than 85% of patients. The patient's findings are not compatible with the Miller Fisher variant.

**Bibliography**

Kiernan MC, Vucic S, Cheah BC, Turner MR, Eisen A, Hardiman O, et al. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Lancet. 2011;377:942-55. PMID: 21296405 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(10)61156-7.

This content was last updated in August 2018.