
### Correct Answer: B) Cavernous sinus thrombosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose cavernous sinus thrombosis.

#### **Key Point:** Painful ophthalmoplegia affecting multiple nerves involved with extraocular movement indicates a pathologic process in the superior orbital fissure or cavernous sinus.

This patient has right cavernous sinus thrombosis. Painful ophthalmoplegia affecting multiple nerves involved with extraocular movement indicates a pathologic process in the superior orbital fissure or cavernous sinus. Proptosis and chemosis are typical because of marked venous congestion. Thrombosis of the cavernous sinus most commonly arises from contiguous spread of infection, most likely from nasal, sinus, and dental sites. Staphylococcus aureus is the most common organism and is found in 70% of affected patients. Progression to bilateral involvement of the cavernous sinuses may be seen within 1 to 2 days of presentation. Brain MRI is more sensitive than head CT in confirming the diagnosis; magnetic resonance venography also is frequently helpful. Lumbar puncture is required to exclude meningeal involvement. This condition is life-threatening and requires immediate administration of antibiotics and consideration of surgical drainage.
Dissection of the carotid artery can present with orbital pain, partial Horner syndrome (ptosis and miosis only), and ipsilateral signs of cerebral or retinal ischemia. Ptosis with Horner syndrome is partial, whereas that seen with oculomotor nerve palsy is complete. Ophthalmoplegia would be highly unusual and proptosis and chemosis unexpected in carotid artery dissection.
Aneurysms of the posterior communicating artery may expand and present with ipsilateral third nerve palsy but not fourth or sixth nerve palsies. Even without aneurysmal rupture, aneurysmal expansion can provoke ipsilateral or global headache. A fixed dilated pupil, ptosis, and inability to elevate or adduct the globe are noted. Diabetic third nerve palsy may present in a similar fashion but typically spares the pupil.
Vertebral artery dissection often presents with occipital and neck pain and posterior fossa symptoms, such as dysarthria, dysphagia, ataxia, and hemifield visual loss. Ophthalmoplegia, chemosis, and proptosis are not features of this type of dissection.

**Bibliography**

Sparaco M, Feleppa M, Bigal M. Cerebral venous thrombosis and headache—a case-series. Headache. 2015 Jun;55(6):806-14. doi: 10.1111/head.12599 PMID: 26084237 doi:10.1111/head.12599

This content was last updated in August 2018.