
### Correct Answer: A) Carotid endarterectomy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat symptomatic carotid artery stenosis.

#### **Key Point:** Carotid endarterectomy within 2 weeks of transient ischemic attack or nondisabling stroke is safe and reduces the risk of ischemic stroke in patients with symptomatic carotid artery stenosis.

Carotid endarterectomy is the most appropriate next step in management. This patient has an ischemic stroke due to symptomatic extracranial internal carotid artery stenosis, which is associated with a high short-term risk of recurrent stroke despite best medical therapy. Guidelines recommend carotid endarterectomy for patients with symptomatic carotid artery stenosis within 2 weeks of transient ischemic attack or nondisabling stroke. The procedure is safe and reduces the risk of ischemic stroke. The choice of revascularization procedure is largely driven by medical comorbidities and by the expertise of locally available surgeons. However, a consistent finding has been a higher risk of perioperative stroke with stenting. In a clinical trial that enrolled symptomatic patients with carotid stenosis in Europe, endarterectomy was associated with a lower risk of recurrent stroke risk than was stenting.
Carotid stenting may be considered in patients with significant cardiac comorbidities that would preclude surgery under general anesthesia because of safety considerations; this patient has no such comorbidities. Patients should be counseled that stenting is associated with a higher risk of perioperative stroke, according to randomized clinical trials of symptomatic patients.
Diagnostic angiography is not routinely indicated to confirm the degree of stenosis before carotid revascularization, given the associated risk of vessel injury. Additionally, sufficient information is available from both the magnetic resonance angiogram and the carotid duplex ultrasound.
A 30-day period of outpatient telemetry is not required to diagnose the stroke subtype in this patient with established high-grade stenosis in the carotid artery. Evaluation for occult atrial fibrillation is recommended for patients in whom the cause of stroke has not been identified, especially if an embolic cause (suggested by infarcts involving the brain surface or in the distribution of more than one cerebral artery) is suspected.

**Bibliography**

Kernan WN, Ovbiagele B, Black HR, Bravata DM, Chimowitz MI, Ezekowitz MD, et al; American Heart Association Stroke Council, Council on Cardiovascular and Stroke Nursing, Council on Clinical Cardiology, and Council on Peripheral Vascular Disease. Guidelines for the prevention of stroke in patients with stroke and transient ischemic attack: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke. 2014;45:2160-236. PMID: 24788967 doi:10.1161/STR.0000000000000024

This content was last updated in August 2018.