
### Correct Answer: C) Lumbar puncture 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose normal pressure hydrocephalus.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH), lumbar puncture with removal of a large volume of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and subsequent measurement of CSF opening pressure can help confirm the diagnosis and determine if the NPH is reversible.

This patient most likely has normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) and should undergo lumbar puncture with removal of a large volume of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and subsequent measurement of CSF opening pressure. Because NPH is reversible, detecting it early is essential. The triad of gait changes, urinary incontinence, and cognitive impairment is most characteristic of NPH, with gait impairment being the most prominent feature. The MRI shows ventricular dilation typical of normal pressure hydrocephalus. The diagnosis is suggested by an expansion of the entire ventricular system in the absence of sulcal atrophy or an obstruction. A timed gait evaluation performed just before CSF removal and again before 60 minutes have passed since removal is appropriate to confirm the diagnosis. If gait improves after CSF removal, then NPH likely is present and reversal is possible.
Amyloid PET scanning is approved for clinical use in patients with suspected Alzheimer disease. The most prominent early symptom of Alzheimer disease is memory disturbance, not gait disturbance or urinary incontinence. More importantly, however, this imaging test would delay the diagnosis of NPH, a potentially reversible cause of his symptoms.
Although a fluorodeoxyglucose PET scan can be used for pattern recognition of certain dementias, it is a nonspecific test and is unlikely to definitively establish the diagnosis in this patient.
Neuropsychological testing is most helpful in patients with mild symptoms of cognitive impairment, especially in localizing these symptoms. It also can help establish or exclude malingering as the reason for the symptoms. It likely would have limited utility for this patient who had good results on the memory portion of the Mini–Mental State Examination and whose other symptoms are gait impairment and urinary incontinence.

**Bibliography**

Halperin JJ, Kurlan R, Schwalb JM, Cusimano MD, Gronseth G, Gloss D. Practice guideline: Idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus: response to shunting and predictors of response: report of the Guideline Development, Dissemination, and Implementation Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology. Neurology. 2015;85:2063-71. PMID: 26644048 doi:10.1212/WNL.0000000000002193

This content was last updated in August 2018.