
### Correct Answer: A) Autoimmune limbic encephalitis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose autoimmune limbic encephalitis.

#### **Key Point:** The presence of new-onset status epilepticus and progressive confusion in a previously healthy patient strongly suggests a diagnosis of autoimmune limbic encephalitis.

This patient most likely has autoimmune limbic encephalitis. New-onset status epilepticus in a previously healthy person suggests the presence of a neurologic autoimmune disorder. This patient has a rapidly progressive neurologic syndrome that is most consistent with autoimmune encephalitis, with antibodies directed against the voltage-gated potassium channel receptor complex (the most common target being the LGI1 antibody). This condition is marked by the presence of hyponatremia, myoclonus, and limbic encephalitis (amnesia, temporal lobe seizures, and confusion). Although many neurologic autoimmune disorders are paraneoplastic, primary autoimmune disorders with no accompanying cancer may occur.
Lyme disease with neurologic involvement typically presents with meningitis or brainstem encephalitis (multiple cranial nerve palsies and confusion) in a patient with a history of rash and arthralgia. Chronic indolent disease may involve cognitive symptoms, but they are typically not acutely progressive, as they are in this patient.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy typically presents with subacute neurologic symptoms that are focal (unilateral weakness or numbness, aphasia, cranial nerve palsies) in an immunocompromised patient, with characteristic white matter abnormalities on MRI.
Rapidly progressive dementia, such as Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, sometimes presents with symptoms similar to this patient's but usually is not accompanied by hyponatremia or focal seizures.

**Bibliography**

Shin YW, Lee ST, Shin JW, Moon J, Lim JA, Byun JI, et al. VGKC-complex/LGI1-antibody encephalitis: clinical manifestations and response to immunotherapy. J Neuroimmunol. 2013;265:75-81. PMID: 24176648 doi:10.1016/j.jneuroim.2013.10.005

This content was last updated in August 2018.