
### Correct Answer: A) Acetaminophen 

**Educational Objective:** Treat severe traumatic brain injury.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with severe head injury, fever must be controlled aggressively with an agent such as acetaminophen.

This patient should be treated with acetaminophen. The patient has symptoms and signs of a severe head injury. Severe headache combined with nausea and focal neurologic symptoms, such as tinnitus and hearing loss, raises concerns of a major cranial injury. Bilateral periorbital bruising (“raccoon eyes”), mastoid bruising (“Battle sign”), and hemotympanum suggest the presence of a basilar skull fracture. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) rhinorrhea, epistaxis, and cranial nerve palsies also can be noted with these fractures, and fractures of the temporal bone occur in 75% of affected patients. Maintenance of an arterial PO2 level of greater than 60 mm Hg (8.0 kPa) and a systolic blood pressure of greater than 90 mm Hg have been shown to improve outcomes in these patients. Fever worsens outcomes after stroke and possibly after severe head injury, most likely by promoting secondary brain injury, and acetaminophen is the most appropriate treatment at this time.
Prophylactic antibiotics, such as ceftriaxone, are inappropriate for this patient. Fever is a common complication of severe head injury and should be managed aggressively with antipyretic agents. There is no evidence of focal infection or sepsis. Although rhinorrhea in this patient most likely represents CSF drainage, no evidence supports the use of antibiotics without evidence of meningitis.
Dexamethasone is contraindicated in severe head injury because glucocorticoids have been shown to worsen its prognosis.
Naloxone is inappropriate for this patient. Although the urine drug screen was positive for opiates, there were no signs of central nervous system or respiratory depression. Naloxone also can worsen nausea and dizziness and occasionally cause sedation.
Norepinephrine is not required in this patient. Although blood pressure normalization in the presence of significant systolic hypotension (<90 mm Hg) has been shown to improve outcomes in severe closed head injury, this patient's systolic blood pressure does not require vasopressor support.

**Bibliography**

Sheriff FG, Hinson HE. Pathophysiology and clinical management of moderate and severe traumatic brain injury in the ICU. Semin Neurol. 2015 Feb;35(1):42-9. PMID: 25714866 doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1544238

This content was last updated in August 2018.