
### Correct Answer: C) Neuropsychological testing 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate cognitive and functional decline in a patient with depression.

#### **Key Point:** In a patient with treatment-refractory depression who also has cognitive and functional decline, neuropsychological testing can be useful in identifying a pattern or degree of cognitive impairment that is not typical of depression-related cognitive impairment.

This patient should undergo neuropsychological testing. She has treatment-refractory depression but also cognitive impairment and some functional deficits. Given the progression of the cognitive symptoms, additional diagnostic studies should be pursued to evaluate for cognitive impairment independent of that associated with depression. More than half of patients with late-life major depression exhibit clinically significant cognitive impairment, most frequently affecting processing speed, executive function, and visuospatial ability. Notably, late-life depression may be a prodromal feature of Alzheimer disease. A history should be obtained from the patient and someone well acquainted with the patient who can provide information on current daily functioning relative to premorbid functioning. A tool for identifying and assessing the severity of depression is the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ)-9. A score of 5 to 9 indicates mild depression, 10 to 14 moderate depression, 15 to 19 moderately severe depression, and 20 or higher severe depression. In a patient with possible depression-related cognitive and functional decline, a trial of antidepressant therapy is an appropriate first step. Psychotherapy (cognitive-behavioral therapy, psychodynamic therapy, and interpersonal therapy) and psychopharmacology, alone or in combination, are mainstays of treatment and can prove synergistic. Patients who do not respond to full-dose antidepressant monotherapy for 6 weeks may respond to a different antidepressant drug, either from the same or a different class, or the addition of a second antidepressant drug. If the patient does not respond to an adequate trial of therapy, other diagnoses should be considered. Because this patient has not responded to two different antidepressants, the addition of mirtazapine is unlikely to be helpful.
Neuropsychological testing can be useful in identifying a pattern or degree of cognitive impairment that is not typical of depression-related cognitive impairment. When results of neuropsychological testing are more consistent with Alzheimer disease than depression, additional diagnostic studies, such as 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose PET, could be pursued, as could a trial of cognitive enhancers (such as acetylcholinesterase inhibitors).
Although some Alzheimer disease–specific biomarkers can be detected by cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis, abnormal Aβ42 peptide levels are often seen in an older population (30%-50%) in the absence of cognitive impairment. These CSF studies are most helpful in younger patients to discriminate normal from abnormal findings.
A normal head CT scan and normal MRI of the brain do not rule out an underlying neurodegenerative process, particularly if a disease is in its mild stages, and are thus inappropriate in a patient with probable depression as the cause of her symptoms.

**Bibliography**

Hashem AH, Gomaa MA, Sadek MN, Khalaf OO. Late versus early onset depression in elderly patients: Vascular risk and cognitive impairment. Curr Aging Sci. 2017. PMID: 28382870 doi:10.2174/1874609810666170404105634

This content was last updated in August 2018.