
### Correct Answer: D) Video EEG monitoring 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate medically intractable epilepsy.

#### **Key Point:** Video electroencephalography is first step in determining candidacy for epilepsy surgery in patients with medically intractable epilepsy.

This patient is having ongoing focal seizures with altered awareness (formerly known as complex partial seizures) because of temporal lobe epilepsy despite taking two antiepileptic drugs and should be referred to an epilepsy center for monitoring by video electroencephalography (EEG). Because his epilepsy is medically intractable, he may be a candidate for epilepsy surgery. Video EEG is the first step in determining candidacy for surgery by confirming that the seizures seen on video EEG match the location of abnormal findings on MRI. Temporal lobectomy leads to seizure freedom in 60% to 70% of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy not helped by medication and is the best option for treating this patient.
Although levetiracetam and topiramate are reasonable options for treating this seizure type, and topiramate has the added benefit of migraine prophylaxis, the chance of seizure freedom from an additional drug is only approximately 5% to 10%. Additionally, this patient's migraines are already well controlled, so a prophylactic agent is not required.
Use of a vagus nerve stimulator is a palliative measure, is unlikely to result in freedom from seizures, and should be offered only if resection is not an option.

**Bibliography**

Nair DR. Management of drug-resistant epilepsy. Continuum (Minneap Minn). 2016;22:157-72. PMID: 26844735 doi:10.1212/CON.0000000000000297

This content was last updated in August 2018.