
### Correct Answer: C) Neurosurgical intervention 

**Educational Objective:** Treat an unruptured intracranial aneurysm.

#### **Key Point:** Surgical treatment with clipping or endovascular coiling can be considered in patients with symptomatic aneurysms or aneurysms of 7 millimeters or greater in the posterior circulation (posterior communicating and basilar arteries).

This patient should be referred for surgical intervention. She has an intracranial aneurysm in the posterior circulation (posterior communicating artery) that is unruptured but now has several features consistent with a high risk of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH): size equal to or greater than 7 millimeters, rapid growth, and a cranial nerve deficit, which in this patient is compression of the oculomotor nerve (cranial nerve III) on the right. Although neurosurgical intervention (with clipping or coiling, depending on local expertise) has a potential risk of adverse events, the risk of SAH without surgery is greater. A diagnostic angiogram is likely to be required for operative planning and can be obtained in conjunction with a planned coiling procedure.
The patient's blood pressure is already within the appropriate target of less than 140/80 mm Hg. Given the high risk of rupture, further control of blood pressure (with an agent such as lisinopril) at this point is unwarranted and unlikely to be effective.
Carotid artery dissection is typically recognized by the presence of unilateral pain of the head, neck, or face; partial Horner syndrome (ptosis, miosis); and cerebral or retinal ischemia. Less than one third of patients will have all three components. The patient has no headache or other features on examination that are consistent with an internal carotid artery dissection. The examination is instead consistent with oculomotor nerve (cranial nerve III) palsy. If internal carotid artery dissection were suspected, a magnetic resonance angiogram (MRA) of the neck would be an appropriate next step. It is not indicated in this patient.
A repeat MRA of the brain in 6 months also is inappropriate. This patient has now met several criteria for aneurysm surgery. Additional screening to document further changes in the size of the aneurysm will change nothing, and delaying surgery runs the risk of rupture.

**Bibliography**

Thompson BG, Brown RD Jr, Amin-Hanjani S, Broderick JP, Cockroft KM, Connolly ES Jr, et al; American Heart Association Stroke Council, Council on Cardiovascular and Stroke Nursing, and Council on Epidemiology and Prevention. Guidelines for the Management of Patients With Unruptured Intracranial Aneurysms: A Guideline for Healthcare Professionals From the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke. 2015;46:2368-400. PMID: 26089327 doi:10.1161/STR.0000000000000070

This content was last updated in August 2018.