
### Correct Answer: D) Discontinue pramipexole 

**Educational Objective:** Treat psychosis in Parkinson disease.

#### **Key Point:** Dopamine agonists are associated with higher risk of specific adverse effects, including psychosis, impulse control disorder, punding, sleep attacks, ankle edema, and confusion, that may limit their use, especially in older patients with Parkinson disease.

The dopamine agonist pramipexole should be discontinued in this patient with Parkinson disease psychosis. Dopamine agonists, such as pramipexole, can be used as adjuvant therapy to limit the total dose of levodopa. Dopamine agonists are associated with higher risk of specific adverse effects, including impulse control disorder, punding, sleep attacks, ankle edema, and confusion, that may limit their use, especially in older patients. Impulse control disorder is the increased tendency for compulsive behaviors, such as excessive gambling, shopping, or hypersexuality. Punding is a complex prolonged, purposeless, and stereotyped behavior (such as collecting, sorting, cataloguing, or assembling and disassembling common objects). Sleep attacks involve falling asleep without warning. Medication-induced psychosis, especially visual hallucinations, triggered by dopaminergic medications also is a potential complication of Parkinson disease. All patients with Parkinson disease and psychosis should be evaluated for systemic triggers (such as infection and metabolic disturbance) and major depression. Reducing the dose of levodopa also can be considered after removal of the dopamine agonist, but this step may not be possible because of worsening of motor symptoms (as may occur in this patient given the recurrence of rigidity and slowness before each dose of medication). The decision to treat psychosis with medication adjustments or discontinuation should be based on the presence of distress to patient and caregivers, lack of insight in the patient, and progressive frequency of psychosis.
Pimavanserin, a nondopaminergic atypical antipsychotic agent and selective serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 2A inverse agonist, is the only FDA-approved medication for Parkinson psychosis. Quetiapine and clozapine also can be considered in this setting, but most other atypical antipsychotic agents (including aripiprazole, risperidone, and olanzapine) and all typical (first-generation) antipsychotic agents should be avoided. Atypical antipsychotic agents should be used only after discontinuation of any non-levodopa Parkinson medication and resolution of systemic triggers.

**Bibliography**

Samudra N, Patel N, Womack KB, Khemani P, Chitnis S. Psychosis in Parkinson disease: A review of etiology, phenomenology, and management. Drugs Aging. 2016;33:855-63. PMID: 27830568

This content was last updated in August 2018.