
### Correct Answer: A) Lumbar puncture 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose a subarachnoid hemorrhage.

#### **Key Point:** In a patient with a thunderclap headache and normal findings on a CT scan of the head, lumbar puncture should be performed next.

The patient should undergo lumbar puncture. He has had a new thunderclap headache (severe headache that reaches maximum intensity within 1 minute) that has lasted 12 hours. Although a head CT scan without contrast was normal, an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is not always evident on CT scans and still needs to be excluded as a diagnosis. Several features of the patient's headache suggest aneurysmal SAH, including the sudden onset, nuchal rigidity, and pupillary dilation of the left eye. The latter finding can be seen with a posterior communicating artery aneurysm as it exerts pressure on the outer portion of the oculomotor nerve (cranial nerve III). Only examination of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) can effectively determine if this patient has such a hemorrhage. This test has a higher yield 12 hours or longer after headache onset when erythrocyte breakdown products will produce a yellow color (xanthochromia). Before then, the presence of erythrocytes can make it difficult to distinguish a traumatic lumbar puncture from an SAH. Examination of the CSF also allows for the evaluation of other potential causes, such as meningitis, although meningitis is unlikely in this patient, given the absence of fever and sudden onset of symptoms.
Magnetic resonance angiography is helpful in evaluating a carotid artery dissection, but the patient's examination findings are not consistent with this diagnosis. Clinically, carotid artery dissection is recognized by the presence of unilateral pain of the head, neck, or face; partial Horner syndrome (ptosis, miosis); and cerebral or retinal ischemia. However, less than one third of patients will have all three components. This patient has a global headache and an enlarged pupil consistent a compressive process involving the oculomotor nerve (cranial nerve III) and not Horner syndrome.
MRI is neither sensitive nor specific enough to definitively diagnose SAH. Furthermore, MRI is time consuming and not always available.
Given the patient's abnormal neurologic findings, performing no further testing to find the cause of his symptoms is inappropriate.

**Bibliography**

Thompson BG, Brown RD Jr, Amin-Hanjani S, Broderick JP, Cockroft KM, Connolly ES Jr, et al; American Heart Association Stroke Council, Council on Cardiovascular and Stroke Nursing, and Council on Epidemiology and Prevention. Guidelines for the management of patients with unruptured intracranial aneurysms: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke. 2015;46:2368-400. PMID: 26089327 doi:10.1161/STR.0000000000000070

This content was last updated in August 2018.