
### Correct Answer: D) Vitreous fluid sampling 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose primary central nervous system lymphoma with vitreous fluid sampling.

#### **Key Point:** Slit-lamp examination and vitreous fluid collection with cytologic analysis should be considered in patients with biopsy-inaccessible lesions who have suspected primary central nervous system lymphoma.

This patient should undergo vitreous fluid sampling. He most likely has primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL). PCNSL is a non-Hodgkin lymphoma that can affect any part of the central nervous system but commonly presents as a focal supratentorial lesion. Although PCNSL is commonly seen in patients with HIV infection, PCNSL is increasing in incidence among older, immunocompetent patients. An association with Epstein-Barr virus has been noted. Pathologic analysis, usually of a brain biopsy specimen, is required to make a diagnosis of PCNSL. Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma is typical. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cytology can be diagnostic in 10% of patients, although repeated samples often are necessary. Ocular involvement in the vitreous or retina may be seen in 10% to 20% of patients and can be detected with a slit-lamp examination and confirmed by vitreous fluid sampling. In this patient, vitreous fluid collection with cytologic analysis may obviate the need for more invasive and potentially risky testing, such as brain biopsy. Despite being chemo- and radiosensitive, PCNSL typically recurs and has a generally poor prognosis.
Because the lesion is in the brainstem, brain biopsy can result in significant neurologic injury and is considered a high-risk procedure. Brain biopsy should be considered only if other tests have been unrevealing, including cytologic analysis of vitreous fluid.
When PCNSL is suspected, glucocorticoids should be avoided until the diagnosis is confirmed because they are lymphocytotoxic and can result in false-negative histopathologic or cytopathologic results. Although this patient has hydrocephalus, herniation and brain edema are not present, and thus glucocorticoid therapy may be delayed while the diagnostic evaluation is completed.
Lumbar puncture is contraindicated in a patient with mass effect and hydrocephalus because it may precipitate herniation. If mass effect with hydrocephalus were not present, CSF sampling would be a reasonable step because lymphomatous cells may often be present in the CSF and would establish the diagnosis of PCNSL.

**Bibliography**

Hoang-Xuan K, Bessell E, Bromberg J, Hottinger AF, Preusser M, et al; European Association for Neuro-Oncology Task Force on Primary CNS Lymphoma. Diagnosis and treatment of primary CNS lymphoma in immunocompetent patients: guidelines from the European Association for Neuro-Oncology. Lancet Oncol. 2015 Jul;16(7):e322-32. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00076-5. PMID: 26149884

This content was last updated in August 2018.