
### Correct Answer: D) No further testing or treatment is necessary 

**Educational Objective:** Manage periodic limb movements of sleep.

#### **Key Point:** The disorder periodic limb movements of sleep is characterized by periodic leg kicks that often exhibit a stereotyped triple-flexion phenomenology repeating periodically during sleep; if no associated sleep disorder is present, reassurance is the best management.

This patient most likely has periodic limb movements of sleep, a disorder characterized by periodic leg kicks, often with a stereotyped triple-flexion phenomenology that repeats periodically during sleep. This condition can occur in otherwise healthy persons or be associated with sleep disorders, such as restless legs syndrome, sleep apnea, narcolepsy, and others. If another sleep disorder is present, treatment targeting the associated disorder also improves the periodic limb movements. If no associated sleep disorder is present (as is suggested in this patient by history and polysomnographic findings), treatment is only necessary if limb movements cause sleep fragmentation (brief arousals that occur during a sleep period). In the absence of such issues, no further testing or treatment is recommended.
Clonazepam often is used to treat rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder, a condition associated with loss of the muscle paralysis normally experienced during the REM dream phase of sleep and typically characterized by dream enactment behavior with complex movements and vocalizations.
Electroencephalography (EEG) is indicated if nocturnal epilepsy is suspected. Nocturnal epilepsy is a major entity in the differential diagnosis of sleep-related movement disorders. However, this patient's stereotyped periodic movements are classic for periodic limb movements of sleep, and EEG is unnecessary.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a common movement disorder characterized by discomforting sensations in the legs at rest or when falling asleep, an urge to move the legs, and immediate relief after moving the legs or walking. Patients with RLS should be screened for iron deficiency and receive iron supplements in the presence of deficiency or even low-normal serum ferritin levels. This patient does not have symptoms of RLS, such as sensory abnormalities or the urge to move.

**Bibliography**

Aurora RN, Kristo DA, Bista SR, Rowley JA, Zak RS, Casey KR, et al; American Academy of Sleep Medicine. The treatment of restless legs syndrome and periodic limb movement disorder in adults—an update for 2012: practice parameters with an evidence-based systematic review and meta-analyses: an American Academy of Sleep Medicine Clinical Practice Guideline. Sleep. 2012;35:1039-62. PMID: 22851801 doi:10.5665/sleep.1988

This content was last updated in August 2018.