
### Correct Answer: A) Epidural hematoma 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose epidural hematoma.

#### **Key Point:** Typical symptoms of epidural hematoma include severe headache, nausea with vomiting, and eventual impairment in consciousness with neurologic deterioration; emergent surgical evacuation is required when anisocoria, a Glasgow Coma Scale score of less than 9, or a hematoma volume greater than 30 mL is present.

The patient has an epidural hematoma. This head injury most commonly results from a fracture of the temporal bone and subsequent laceration of the ipsilateral middle meningeal artery. Only 20% to 30% of these hematomas occur in other locations, and most follow trauma; spontaneous hemorrhages are rare. An epidural hematoma develops between the inner table of the skull and the dura mater. Lateral extension is prevented by dual attachments at the skull sutures; expansion occurs inwardly towards the brain parenchyma. Appearance on a head CT scan is biconvex or “lenticular.” After a lucid interval, neurologic deterioration is rapid. Peak expansion of the hematoma occurs 6 to 8 hours after initial formation. Severe headache, nausea with vomiting, and eventual impairment in consciousness progress quickly. Ipsilateral compression of the oculomotor nerve (cranial nerve III) indicates potential uncal herniation. Subsequent ipsilateral midbrain compression results in contralateral upper motor neuron findings. Emergent surgical evacuation is required for those with anisocoria, a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of less than 9, or a hematoma volume greater than 30 mL.
Lobar hemorrhages are collections of blood within the brain parenchyma. Common causes are hypertension, anticoagulation, cerebral amyloid angiopathy, and aneurysmal or arteriovenous malformation rupture. Hemorrhage into areas of ischemic infarction or into tumors of primary central nervous system or metastatic origin also may be seen. Mass effect (from the hemorrhage) and the surrounding area of edema lead to a variety of neurologic presentations, some of which may require surgical evacuation.
Subarachnoid hemorrhage can result from trauma or, more commonly, rupture of an intracranial cerebral artery aneurysm. This hemorrhage is not confined by anatomic landmarks and typically spreads throughout the subarachnoid space.
Subdural hematomas are collections of blood between the brain and the dura mater. Most involve rupture of veins bridging the subarachnoid space. Because of cerebral atrophy and stretching of these veins, older patients are particularly vulnerable. Subdural hematomas can occur spontaneously or as a result of cranial trauma, and presentations range from acute to chronic. Those with acute subdural hematoma are at high mortality risk and require urgent surgical evacuation. GCS scores of less than 9, pupillary asymmetry, and hematomas greater than 10 mm in thickness are indications for emergent surgery.

**Bibliography**

Rincon S, Gupta R, Ptak T. Imaging of head trauma. Handb Clin Neurol. 2016;135:447-77. PMID: 27432678 doi: 10.1016/B978-0-444-53485-9.00022-2

This content was last updated in August 2018.