
### Correct Answer: C) McArdle disease (metabolic myopathy) 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose metabolic myopathy.

#### **Key Point:** McArdle disease is a metabolic myopathy associated with exercise intolerance, cramping, myalgia, mild weakness, “second-wind” phenomenon, and myoglobinuria.

This patient has metabolic myopathy consistent with McArdle disease (glycogen storage disease V). This diagnosis is supported by a history of exercise intolerance associated with myalgia, “mild” weakness, and myoglobinuria and by laboratory evidence of chronic kidney disease (elevated serum creatinine level secondary to myoglobinuria). McArdle disease is caused by myophosphorylase deficiency and may be underdiagnosed because of the variability and intermittent nature of its symptoms. Patients with McArdle disease often do not have any muscle weakness or atrophy at baseline evaluation but may develop transient “mild” weakness after exertion. They can protect against severe exercise intolerance by eating a carbohydrate-rich diet before exercise; they also often describe a characteristic “second-wind” phenomenon by which a brief break taken after onset of cramping and fatigue allows for a higher level of exercise tolerance with much less difficulty.
Acute intermittent porphyria (AIP) is characterized by acute attacks of abdominal pain and vomiting and by central, peripheral, sensory, motor, autonomic, and enteric nervous system abnormalities. Patients may have episodes of reddish-brown urine (porphobilin and porphyrins) during an acute attack. AIP does not have a myopathic presentation and is not associated with intermittent exercise intolerance or “second-wind” phenomenon.
Limb-girdle muscular dystrophies are associated with baseline muscle atrophy and weakness and not with crises of exercise intolerance.
Myotonic dystrophy is unlikely in the absence of myotonia (delayed muscle relaxation), fixed muscle weakness, stiffness, and multiorgan involvement. Crises of exercise intolerance and myoglobinuria are not typical in myotonic dystrophy.
Symmetric painless proximal weakness of the arms and legs is the classic feature of polymyositis. Onset is acute or subacute, with disease progressing over weeks. A prolonged clinical course without baseline weakness and a history of exercise intolerance is not consistent with polymyositis.

**Bibliography**

Adler M, Shieh PB. Metabolic myopathies. Semin Neurol. 2015;35:385-97. PMID: 26502762 doi:10.1055/s-0035-1558973

This content was last updated in August 2018.