
### Correct Answer: C) Rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose dementia with Lewy bodies.

#### **Key Point:** Rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder commonly occurs in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and can help distinguish DLB from Alzheimer disease and other cognitive disorders.

Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder commonly occurs in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and can help distinguish DLB from Alzheimer disease and other cognitive disorders. This patient has cognitive and other symptoms suggestive of mild DLB. All the synucleinopathies (Parkinson disease, Parkinson disease dementia, and DLB) have a much higher rate of REM sleep behavioral sleep disorder than other neurologic and neurodegenerative diseases. REM sleep behavior disorder is characterized by the acting out of dreams secondary to loss of normal muscle paralysis during the dream phase of sleep. Symptoms may range from hand gestures to violent thrashing, punching, and kicking that may result in harm to self or bed partner. Patients also may have severe sensitivity to neuroleptic medications, which is more common in DLB than in other dementing illnesses.
Delusions occur in both Alzheimer disease (especially the later stages) and DLB; frank hallucinations are more typical of DLB. Therefore, the presence of delusions is unlikely to help distinguish Alzheimer disease from DLB.
Depression is a common symptom in most neurodegenerative dementia syndromes; it occurs in as many as 40% to 60% of patients with Alzheimer disease at some point of their disease. Its presence in this patient would not help establish a diagnosis.
Repeated falls can occur in DLB but also in vascular cognitive impairment, normal pressure hydrocephalus, and the later stages of Alzheimer disease. Therefore, this finding is unlikely to help in establishing a diagnosis in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Walker Z, Possin KL, Boeve BF, Aarsland D. Lewy body dementias. Lancet. 2015;386:1683-97. PMID: 26595642 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(15)00462-6

This content was last updated in August 2018.