
### Correct Answer: A) Atorvastatin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat intracranial atherosclerosis.

#### **Key Point:** In ischemic stroke due to intracranial atherosclerosis, the use of high-intensity atorvastatin therapy for secondary stroke prevention is associated with a reduced long-term risk of ischemic stroke.

This patient should receive high-intensity statin therapy with atorvastatin. The use of atorvastatin for secondary stroke prevention is associated with a reduced long-term risk of ischemic stroke, regardless of the baseline LDL cholesterol level. In addition to lowering the cholesterol level, high-intensity statin therapy has other benefits that are important in secondary stroke prevention, including plaque stabilization, anti-inflammatory properties, and slowing the progression of carotid arterial disease. A secondary-prevention randomized trial of high-dose statins established their efficacy among patients with LDL cholesterol levels greater than 100 mg/dL (2.59 mmol/L), irrespective of stroke subtype. Although this trial enrolled patients who were 30 days past stroke onset, statins are recommended to be part of a standardized hospital discharge order set for patients with ischemic stroke because this approach enhances patient adherence to medications. Standardized order sets, which also include antithrombotic agents and smoking cessation, focus on quality metrics of designated stroke centers.
Data have shown that stenting in patients with symptomatic intracranial atherosclerotic disease is associated with a nearly two-fold higher risk of stroke when compared with best medical therapy. Therefore, stenting is not routinely recommended or indicated for patients with intracranial atherosclerosis.
No clinical trial data support the use of methylphenidate, amphetamines, amantadine, bromocriptine, or similar agents for stroke recovery or prevention of stroke recurrence. Although these medications are not routinely recommended, they can be used on an individual basis in patients with behavioral syndromes, such as diminished wakefulness.
Compared with aspirin, warfarin has an increased risk of mortality when used for prevention of recurrence in patients with stroke due to intracranial atherosclerosis. Warfarin is indicated in patients with other stroke subtypes, such as those resulting from atrial fibrillation.

**Bibliography**

Kernan WN, Ovbiagele B, Black HR, Bravata DM, Chimowitz MI, Ezekowitz MD, et al; American Heart Association Stroke Council, Council on Cardiovascular and Stroke Nursing, Council on Clinical Cardiology, and Council on Peripheral Vascular Disease. Guidelines for the prevention of stroke in patients with stroke and transient ischemic attack: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke. 2014;45:2160-236. PMID: 24788967 doi:10.1161/STR.0000000000000024

This content was last updated in August 2018.