
### Correct Answer: B) Intravenous nicardipine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat acute intracerebral hemorrhage.

#### **Key Point:** Patients who have intracerebral hemorrhage without elevated intracranial pressure whose systolic blood pressure is greater than 180 mm Hg should be treated with an intravenous antihypertensive agent, such as nicardipine, to a target blood pressure of 140 mm Hg.

This patient should receive intravenous nicardipine. She has an acute intracerebral hemorrhage whose location suggests hypertension as the cause. Systolic blood pressure on emergent physical examination is greater than 180 mm Hg; this means she is at high risk for hematoma expansion. The systolic blood pressure should thus be lowered to a target of 140 mm Hg with a rapidly acting intravenous agent, such as intravenous nicardipine. A recently completed trial that compared systolic blood pressure targets of 120 mm Hg and 140 mm Hg noted increased adverse renal events in the treatment arm with lower blood pressure. Whatever intravenous antihypertensive agent is chosen, it should be possible to taper its dose quickly if systolic blood pressure becomes too low.
Hematoma evacuation is an inappropriate treatment because the patient's intracerebral hemorrhage is not near the cortical surface, and the clinical and imaging findings show no evidence of elevated intracranial pressure (ICP) or cerebral herniation. If she were to have neurologic decline, repeat head CT would be appropriate to evaluate for hematoma expansion. Candidates for surgical evacuation of an intracerebral hematoma include those with evidence of elevated ICP or a cerebellar hemorrhage greater than 3 centimeters in size.
Nitroprusside is not a first-line blood pressure treatment for patients with acute hemorrhagic stroke, given its potential for increasing ICP.
There is no evidence that platelet transfusion reverses the coagulopathy associated with antiplatelet agents or prevents hematoma expansion. Platelet transfusion also carries the risk of coronary stent thrombosis, volume overload, and transfusion-related reactions.

**Bibliography**

Hemphill JC 3rd, Greenberg SM, Anderson CS, Becker K, Bendok BR, Cushman M, et al; American Heart Association Stroke Council. Guidelines for the management of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke. 2015;46:2032-60. PMID: 26022637 doi:10.1161/STR.0000000000000069

This content was last updated in August 2018.