
### Correct Answer: E) Verapamil 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent cluster headache.

#### **Key Point:** Cluster headache, the most common of the trigeminal autonomic cephalalgias, is best prevented with verapamil.

This patient should be treated with verapamil. His history is compatible with the diagnosis of cluster headache. Cluster headache is the most common of the trigeminal autonomic cephalalgias (TACs). The term “cluster” is derived from this disorder's characteristic short cycles of headache activity (weeks) interrupted by long periods of complete remission (month or years). Male sex and tobacco use are two potential risk factors. Alcohol is a commonly reported trigger during an active cycle. Episodes are common nocturnally and may occur seasonally. Attack duration is between 15 and 180 minutes. Pain is almost always unilateral and localized near the temple or orbit. Ipsilateral autonomic symptoms, such as tearing, ptosis, nasal congestion, and rhinorrhea, are characteristic. Attacks may occur one to eight times daily for several weeks or months. Brain MRI should be performed initially to exclude structural lesions mimicking cluster headache. Oxygen inhalation and subcutaneous sumatriptan are first-line therapies for acute cluster headache. The patient should be counseled to stop smoking. Verapamil is the preventive medication of choice.
Carbamazepine is the treatment of choice for trigeminal neuralgia, which most often occurs in patients older than 50 years, but has no effect on cluster headache or any of the TACs. Periorbital location of pain would be atypical for trigeminal neuralgia, as would an attack duration beyond seconds. Ipsilateral autonomic symptoms are also generally absent.
Fexofenadine, a second-generation antihistamine, has no established benefit in cluster headache. This patient has no history of allergic rhinitis or other conditions that would respond to an antihistamine.
Several indomethacin-responsive headache syndromes have been identified, but cluster headache is not among them. Chronic paroxysmal hemicrania is a TAC that responds to indomethacin. Episodes of this condition last only 3 to 20 minutes and can recur up to 40 times daily. The diagnosis also requires concomitant ipsilateral autonomic findings, such as tearing, nasal congestion, or rhinorrhea.
Propranolol is an effective migraine preventive therapy but has no benefit for cluster headache. Migraine may present with severe periorbital headache with nausea and photophobia and occasionally with autonomic features. Unlike cluster headache, which typically lasts 15 to 180 minutes, migraine by definition extends 4 to 72 hours without treatment.

**Bibliography**

Pareja J, Alvarez M. The usual treatment of trigeminal autonomic cephalalgias. Headache. 2013 Oct;53(9):1401-14. PMID: 24090529 doi:10.1111/head.12193

This content was last updated in August 2018.