
### Correct Answer: D) Familial amyloidosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose familial amyloidosis.

#### **Key Point:** Familial amyloidosis is characterized by predominantly sensory and motor peripheral neuropathy and/or autonomic neuropathy; it is diagnosed by detecting a mutation of the transthyretin gene.

The most likely diagnosis is familial amyloidosis. His progressive sensory, motor, and autonomic axonal polyneuropathy; bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome; and family history of neuropathy and cardiac disease suggest familial amyloidosis. This disorder is diagnosed by detection of a transthyretin gene (TTR) mutation. Affected patients often have multiorgan involvement (diseases of the eye [glaucoma] and the neurologic, gastrointestinal, cardiac, and urinary systems), but there is wide phenotypic variation leading to delayed diagnosis. Therefore, a high level of clinical suspicion of amyloidosis is necessary in the presence of relentless progression of neuropathy, autonomic dysfunction, and positive family history of typical symptoms.
This patient has no evidence of upper motor neuron disease on clinical examination and exhibits prominent sensory and autonomic neuropathy, which are inconsistent with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
In this patient, the electromyographic (EMG) findings, positive family history, absence of upper motor neuron findings, and diffuse dysautonomia are inconsistent with a cervical myelopathy.
This patient's EMG findings are consistent with an axonal neuropathy, not a demyelinating neuropathy such as chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy.
West Nile virus, which typically has an acute or subacute (not chronic) course, can cause a flaccid motor myelopathy that does not involve sensory and autonomic small fiber neurons.

**Bibliography**

Adams D, Lozeron P, Lacroix C. Amyloid neuropathies. Curr Opin Neurol. 2012;25:564-72. PMID: 22941262 doi:10.1097/WCO.0b013e328357bdf6

This content was last updated in August 2018.