
### Correct Answer: A) Continuous (24-hour) electroencephalography 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose nonconvulsive status epilepticus.

#### **Key Point:** Nonconvulsive status epilepticus should be suspected in patients with critical illness who develop altered mental status; the diagnosis is confirmed with continuous (24-hour) electroencephalography.

The patient should undergo continuous (24-hour) electroencephalography (EEG). He has fluctuating mental status of unknown origin in the setting of a critical illness, sepsis, and multiorgan dysfunction. These findings raise suspicion of nonconvulsive status epilepticus (NCSE), which is intermittent electrical seizure activity without clinically evident seizure activity. A 20-minute EEG usually is inadequately sensitive to capture seizures, particularly if they are occurring intermittently. NCSE also is increasingly diagnosed in critically ill comatose or stuporous patients with acute neurologic or medical conditions who have not had a convulsive seizure. Similar to NCSE following CSE, NCSE in critically ill populations also is associated with increased morbidity and mortality and requires prompt attention and intervention. The diagnostic test of choice is continuous (24-hour) EEG monitoring. Most critically ill patients with nonconvulsive seizures have their first detectable seizure with EEG monitoring within 24 hours of initiating the recording, but an additional 12% have detectable seizures with 48 hours of continuous monitoring. Cefepime has been known to cause encephalopathy, coma, and status epilepticus in patients with or without epilepsy, especially those with acute kidney injury, and its use should raise the clinician's suspicion of NCSE.
Empiric treatment with fosphenytoin or lorazepam is generally not recommended until the diagnosis of NCSE or intermittent nonconvulsive seizures is confirmed by EEG. This approach differs from the treatment of generalized convulsive status epilepticus, which is diagnosed clinically and, optimally, treated without delay.
Providing no treatment is inadequate as the next step in management for this patient with altered mental status, a fluctuating level of consciousness, and other abnormalities on neurologic and laboratory testing. The diagnosis of NCSE first must be established (or excluded).

**Bibliography**

Herman ST, Abend NS, Bleck TP, Chapman KE, Drislane FW, Emerson RG, et al; Critical Care Continuous EEG Task Force of the American Clinical Neurophysiology Society. Consensus statement on continuous EEG in critically ill adults and children, part I: indications. J Clin Neurophysiol. 2015;32:87-95. PMID: 25626778 doi:10.1097/WNP.0000000000000166

This content was last updated in August 2018.