
### Correct Answer: E) Vitamin B12 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose subacute combined degeneration due to vitamin B12 deficiency.

#### **Key Point:** Subacute combined degeneration is a myelopathy manifesting as dysfunction of the corticospinal tracts and dorsal columns that is caused by vitamin B12 and copper deficiencies.

This patient's serum level of vitamin B12 should be measured. His examination findings are consistent with a myelopathy localizing to both the posterior columns and the corticospinal tracts of the spinal cord, and neuroimaging confirms the diagnosis. Common entities causing this pattern of weakness and sensory deficits are vitamin B12 deficiency, copper deficiency, and neurosyphilis. When these symptoms occur as a consequence of vitamin B12 or copper deficiency, the neurologic syndrome is termed subacute combined degeneration. This patient's previous chronic abuse of nitrous oxide has resulted in a functional B12 deficiency that is due to inactivation of the vitamin. In patients who abuse nitrous oxide, the B12 level also is often low or low-normal, with elevated methylmalonic acid and homocysteine levels. Not all patients with neurologic abnormalities will have anemia or macrocytosis.
Although low 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels have been associated with several conditions, including increased risk for autoimmune disease, this vitamin deficiency itself is not a cause of myelopathy.
Similarly, thiamine deficiency is associated with Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome (nystagmus, ophthalmoplegia, ataxia, and confusion) but not with myelopathy. Wernicke encephalopathy most commonly occurs in persons with alcoholism but also has been reported in patients who have undergone bariatric surgery, have had a prolonged period of fasting, have had repeated episodes of vomiting, or have been on prolonged parenteral nutrition without adequate vitamin supplementation.
Vitamin A deficiency can cause blindness and hypervitaminosis and has been associated with benign idiopathic intracranial hypertension. Vitamin A deficiency is rarely seen in the United States but is the most common vitamin deficiency worldwide. When it does occur in resource-rich countries, it typically is associated with conditions causing fat malabsorption, such as pancreatic insufficiency, celiac disease, or certain forms of bariatric surgery. Alterations in vitamin A level do not result in myelopathy.
Vitamin B6 deficiency is not common but may be associated with drugs that interfere with its metabolism, including isoniazid, hydralazine, carbidopa, and levodopa. The most common manifestations are stomatitis, glossitis, cheilosis, confusion, and depression. Both deficiency and toxicity of this nutrient can cause peripheral neuropathy. The upper motor neuron signs evident on physical examination of this patient, however, rule out a peripheral neuropathy.

**Bibliography**

Briani C, Dalla Torre C, Citton V, Manara R, Pompanin S, Binotto G, et al. Cobalamin deficiency: clinical picture and radiological findings. Nutrients. 2013;5:4521-39. PMID: 24248213 doi:10.3390/nu5114521

This content was last updated in August 2018.