
### Correct Answer: A) Dalfampridine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat impaired mobility in multiple sclerosis.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with multiple sclerosis and impaired mobility, dalfampridine is the most appropriate medication.

This patient should be given dalfampridine. She has multiple sclerosis (MS) and had a relapse more than 1 year ago that resulted in poor recovery of left leg function, which is likely now permanent. Maintenance of mobility in patients with MS is essential for maintaining overall quality of life, and maintenance of an active, healthy lifestyle can help stave off future disability. Physical and occupational therapy is useful to ensure gait safety and improve walking ability and endurance. Assistive aids, such as braces, canes, walkers, and electrostimulatory walk-assist devices, can be useful for many patients. Two recent phase III studies found that dalfampridine, a voltage-gated potassium channel antagonist, significantly improved timed 25-foot walking speeds in patients with multiple sclerosis and gait impairment. This medication theoretically helps boost conductance through demyelinated axonal pathways, which may be of most benefit for long axons, such as those providing motor signals to the legs. As a consequence of this method of action, however, dalfampridine has the rare adverse effect of seizures and should not be used in patients with kidney impairment, given the reduced clearance of the drug and resultant potentially higher rate of seizures.
Pseudobulbar affect, a less common symptomatic manifestation of MS, can act as a significant impediment to social interaction in patients with MS. This symptom manifests as uncontrolled fits of laughter or crying that occur without distinct or appropriate triggers. A successful trial of the combination agent dextromethorphan-quinidine has led to FDA approval of the use of this pharmacotherapy for pseudobulbar affect in MS. It is not effective for improving or maintaining ambulation.
Gabapentin's most frequent use in MS is to treat neuropathic pain, which this patient currently is not experiencing. There is no evidence that this medication benefits impaired mobility.
Memantine frequently is used in mild to severe Alzheimer disease to boost cognition but has not been shown to benefit cognitive dysfunction or to increase mobility in MS patients. In fact, one small study found transient worsening of MS symptoms in those taking memantine.
Modafinil also is inappropriate. This drug is frequently used to treat MS-related fatigue but has no impact on muscle strength or walking ability.

**Bibliography**

Goodman AD, Brown TR, Edwards KR, Krupp LB, Schapiro RT, Cohen R, et al; MSF204 Investigators. A phase 3 trial of extended release oral dalfampridine in multiple sclerosis. Ann Neurol. 2010;68:494-502. PMID: 20976768 doi:10.1002/ana.22240

This content was last updated in August 2018.