
### Correct Answer: A) Diabetic mononeuropathy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose diabetic mononeuropathy.

#### **Key Point:** Acute or subacute pain and paresthesia in a dermatomal pattern in the thoracic or abdominal region in a patient with diabetes mellitus and no evidence of herpes zoster is most likely due to diabetic mononeuropathy.

This patient most likely has diabetic mononeuropathy. He has an elevated hemoglobin A1c value that is consistent with a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus and has no evidence of herpes zoster infection. Truncal diabetic mononeuropathy presents with acute or subacute pain and paresthesia in a dermatomal pattern in the thoracic or abdominal region. The area affected may be unilateral or cross the midline. Associated weakness of abdominal wall muscles can also be present and is detected by the presence of apparent abdominal swelling in the absence of palpable organomegaly. The differential diagnosis for this condition includes truncal radiculopathy caused by varicella zoster infection and thoracic myelopathy caused by demyelinating disease.
Paraproteinemic neuropathy can present as a symmetric distal sensory neuropathy or as sensorimotor, multifocal motor, and cranial neuropathies. The normal results of serum electrophoresis and serum free light chain measurement rules out this diagnosis.
Uremic neuropathy is similar to other neuropathies caused by metabolic disruptions and is associated with distal symmetric polyneuropathy. Asymmetric truncal neuropathy is not a typical presentation. Also, uremic neuropathy is often associated with a more severe degree of kidney injury than is present in this patient.
Vitamin B12 deficiency can cause myeloneuropathy, distal symmetric neuropathy, and cranial neuropathy but typically does not present as truncal mononeuropathy.

**Bibliography**

Pasnoor M, Dimachkie MM, Barohn RJ. Diabetic neuropathy part 2: proximal and asymmetric phenotypes. Neurol Clin. 2013;31:447-62. PMID: 23642718 doi:10.1016/j.ncl.2013.02.003

This content was last updated in August 2018.