
### Correct Answer: C) MRI of the lumbosacral spine 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose spinal cord compression.

#### **Key Point:** In a patient with suspected compression of the lower spinal cord, emergent MRI of the lumbosacral spine is the most appropriate test both to localize the injury and to determine its cause.

This patient should undergo emergent MRI of the lumbosacral spine. His history and clinical findings suggest acute (or subacute) compression of the lower spinal cord—most likely a cauda equina syndrome—given the finding of saddle anesthesia and the absence of a sensory spinal level on physical examination. Given the elevated INR, the most likely diagnosis is a spinal epidural hematoma compressing the lumbosacral spine. MRI is the most appropriate test to localize the injury and determine its cause, both of which are necessary to make an immediate treatment plan. Of note, an MRI of the thoracic spine is not appropriate for this patient; although compression of the thoracic spine could cause an acute myelopathy, it would be unlikely to produce saddle anesthesia in the sacral pattern noted, and the lack of a thoracic spine sensory level on physical examination makes this localization unlikely. Given the suspected hemorrhagic cause of cord compression, noncontrast CT could be an alternative imaging modality in this patient.
Surgical decompression will likely be required to treat nerve root compression due to a probable hematoma. In this patient, management of the bleeding diathesis by correcting the INR also will be necessary. Glucocorticoids have no role in treating spinal cord compression caused by a hematoma. Several trials have shown a benefit of high-dose intravenous glucocorticoids administered within the first 8 hours of traumatic spinal cord injury and in the management of metastatic spinal cord compression.
A CT myelogram would be inappropriate for this patient. Although the myelogram may show compression of the cord, it does not always reveal the cause. Furthermore, this test is difficult to obtain on an emergency basis, given the interventional nature of the procedure, and cannot be used in patients with contrast dye allergies or impaired kidney function. CT myelography is useful when MRI is not feasible (as in patients with implantable devices).
A radiograph of the lumbosacral spine is unlikely to reveal an epidural hematoma or cord compression. This test would be most appropriate in traumatic injury of the spine to investigate for fracture.

**Bibliography**

Kelley BC, Arnold PM, Anderson KK. Spinal emergencies. J Neurosurg Sci. 2012;56:113-29. PMID: 22617174

This content was last updated in August 2018.