
### Correct Answer: C) Lumbar puncture 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose idiopathic intracranial hypertension.

#### **Key Point:** In a patient with suspected idiopathic intracranial hypertension, lumbar puncture is required to confirm the diagnosis.

This patient should have a lumbar puncture. The clinical picture is compatible with idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH), and lumbar puncture is required to confirm the diagnosis. Although most presentations of IIH occur in the context of obesity in women of child-bearing age, several other risk factors have been identified. Exposure to minocycline or other members of the tetracycline class of antibiotics has been linked to the development of IIH. Retinoic acid, estrogen and progesterone supplements, and glucocorticoids are other drugs implicated as causes of this disorder. Headaches, vision changes, and intracranial noises are the most common presenting symptoms. Visual blurring, diplopia, and brief episodic dimming (obscurations) also are common, and papilledema is characteristic; abducens nerve (cranial nerve VI) palsy occurs occasionally. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis typically shows an elevated opening pressure (>250 mm H2O) with normal CSF composition. The treatment of choice is acetazolamide.
Amitriptyline is the preventive medication of choice for chronic tension-type headache (CTTH). Although the headache described in this patient is similar to that of CTTH, the presence of vision changes and intracranial noises would be atypical, and abducens nerve palsy is incompatible with that diagnosis.
Of the indomethacin-responsive headache syndromes, only hemicrania continua is possible in a patient with daily headache. However, the bilateral location of the headache pain, the absence of cranial autonomic features, and the presence of papilledema and abducens nerve palsy are incompatible with that diagnosis.
Magnetic resonance angiography is indicated in cases of suspected intracranial or cervical arterial disease. Although oculomotor nerve (cranial nerve III) palsy is common with an aneurysm of the posterior communicating artery, isolated abducens nerve palsy from vascular lesions is unusual. Carotid or vertebral dissections may result in Horner syndrome or, less commonly, ophthalmoplegia but not papilledema.
Temporal artery biopsy would be indicated in cases of suspected giant cell arteritis, which most commonly presents after age 50 years. Despite classic involvement of the temporal artery, pain may occur in various head locations. Amaurosis and jaw claudication are common associated features. Although cranial nerve palsies occasionally are noted, papilledema is not.

**Bibliography**

Markey KA, Mollan SP, Jensen RH, Sinclair AJ. Understanding idiopathic intracranial hypertension: mechanisms, management, and future directions. Lancet Neurol. 2016 Jan;15(1):78-91. Epub 2015 Dec 8. PMID: 26700907 doi:10.1016/S1474-4422(15)00298-7

This content was last updated in August 2018.