
### Correct Answer: B) Discharge to rehabilitation 

**Educational Objective:** Manage Guillain-Barré syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** A hospitalized patient with Guillain-Barré syndrome who exhibits improvement after an initial course of plasma exchange should be discharged to rehabilitation.

This patient with Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) who exhibits improvement after an initial course of plasma exchange should be discharged to rehabilitation. A diagnosis of GBS, an acute inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy, is supported by prodromal systemic infection, ascending weakness, radicular symptoms, cerebrospinal fluid albuminocytologic dissociation (elevated protein, normal leukocyte count), demyelinating changes (reduced conduction velocity) on a nerve conduction study, and areflexia. GBS is a monophasic disease with weakness reaching its nadir in less than 4 weeks. Given that this patient has already passed the nadir of weakness and is stable from a respiratory and autonomic standpoint, she should be transferred to a rehabilitation center. Rates of full recovery can be slow, but 80% of patients resume ambulation by 6 months.
In a patient with GBS who is already extubated and whose motor strength has improved by 50%, continued monitoring in the hospital is unnecessary and would not be cost-effective high value care. Additionally, early initiation of an active rehabilitation program would reduce the risk of secondary weakness caused by decompensation.
Repeating plasma exchange is indicated in GBS only if symptoms get worse after initial improvement or stabilization. This patient has experienced no deterioration.
Treatment with intravenous glucocorticoids is contraindicated in GBS and may worsen the clinical outcome.
Although intravenous immune globulin (IVIG) has the same efficacy as plasma exchange in shortening the time to recovery and reducing the duration of ventilation in GBS, serial treatment with IVIG after plasma exchange is not superior to either treatment alone and is not recommended. An exception would be if symptoms deteriorate after initial improvement or stabilization.

**Bibliography**

Willison HJ, Jacobs BC, van Doorn PA. Guillain-Barré syndrome. Lancet. 2016;388:717-27. PMID: 26948435 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(16)00339-1

This content was last updated in August 2018.