
### Correct Answer: B) Lamotrigine 

**Educational Objective:** Avoid antiepileptic medications that can accelerate bone loss in patients with osteoporosis.

#### **Key Point:** Lamotrigine does not have the potential to cause or worsen osteoporosis in patients with epilepsy.

Lamotrigine is the most appropriate antiepileptic drug (AED) to treat this patient's focal seizures. Carbamazepine, phenytoin, and phenobarbital are all inducers of the cytochrome p450 system; these drugs increase breakdown of vitamin D, which results in increased parathyroid hormone levels, and thus cause bone loss and osteoporosis. Valproic acid also is associated with bone loss, although the mechanism of this effect is unclear. Lamotrigine and other AEDs that do not induce the P450 system, such as levetiracetam, have no recognized effect on bone turnover; therefore, of the choices listed, lamotrigine is the most appropriate AED to use in a patient with established osteoporosis.
All patients on chronic AED therapy with phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital or valproic acid should undergo initial bone densitometry testing after 5 years of therapy, regardless of age, sex, or menopausal status. Those especially at risk are nonambulatory and physically inactive patients with epilepsy who have a non–weight-bearing status. Screening should be repeated, depending on the results, but not more frequently than every 2 years.
Patients with AED-associated osteoporosis should be assessed for adequate intake of calcium and vitamin D, with initiation of supplementation if intake is inadequate or if low levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D are noted. Otherwise, treatment for osteoporosis associated with AEDs is the same as for osteoporosis in general and usually involves administration of a bisphosphonate, such as alendronate.

**Bibliography**

Schmidt D. Starting, choosing, changing, and discontinuing drug treatment for epilepsy patients. Neurol Clin. 2016 May;34(2) (2016): 363-81, viii. Epub 2016 Mar 5. PMID: 27086984 doi:10.1016/j.ncl.2015.11.007

This content was last updated in August 2018.