
### Correct Answer: C) Nimodipine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat subarachnoid hemorrhage with nimodipine.

#### **Key Point:** Nimodipine is indicated for all nonhypotensive patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage and is associated with improved neurologic outcomes and survival.

This patient should receive nimodipine. She has an aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and is at high risk for neurologic decline from cerebral vasospasm. The risk of vasospasm is greatest 5 to 10 days after SAH onset. Nimodipine is indicated for all nonhypotensive patients with SAH and is associated with improved neurologic outcomes and survival. Because nimodipine may not directly reduce the vasospasm, additional monitoring with repeat neurologic examinations and transcranial Doppler ultrasonography is indicated in a specialized ICU. The presence of vasospasm is suggested by worsening findings on neurologic examination and can be confirmed with CT angiography or catheter angiography, with the latter test having the additional benefit of providing endovascular therapy.
Glucocorticoids, such as dexamethasone, are not routinely indicated for any stroke subtype and are ineffective in reducing intracranial pressure in that setting. One randomized study of 95 patients with aneurysmal SAH treated with 3 days of methylprednisolone showed improved 1-year functional outcomes in patients. However, the preponderance of evidence does not support glucocorticoid treatment for SAH.
Magnesium sulfate therapy has been used to prevent vasospasm following SAH, but randomized trials have not shown improved clinical outcomes. A 2013 systematic review and meta-analysis concluded that while intravenous magnesium reduced delayed cerebral ischemia, there was no improvement in clinical neurologic outcomes.
Nitroglycerin is not an appropriate treatment for this patient. Given the risk of cerebral vasospasm, blood pressure often is allowed to remain elevated in such patients. If her blood pressure were to require treatment, nitroglycerin would be inappropriate because it can increase cerebral venous volume and intracranial pressure, which is a concern in patients with SAH.
Verapamil is a calcium channel blocker, as is nimodipine, but verapamil has not been shown to improve outcomes in patients with SAH or vasospasm.

**Bibliography**

Hemphill JC 3rd, Greenberg SM, Anderson CS, Becker K, Bendok BR, Cushman M, et al; American Heart Association Stroke Council. Guidelines for the management of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke. 2015;46:2032-60. PMID: 26022637 doi:10.1161/STR.0000000000000069

This content was last updated in August 2018.