
### Correct Answer: B) Pull test 

**Educational Objective:** Screen a patient with Parkinson disease for risk of falling backward.

#### **Key Point:** The pull test is the most sensitive predictor of the risk of backward falls in Parkinson disease.

This patient's risk of falling backward is best determined by the pull test, which is the most sensitive predictor of risk of backward falls in Parkinson disease. During this test of postural stability, the examiner throws the patient off base by pulling backward on the shoulders; the test is considered positive if the patient topples into the examiner's arms or takes more than two corrective steps. Backward falls are often related to loss of postural reflexes and resultant postural instability. Additional factors, including insufficient control of motor symptoms, dyskinesia, and orthostatic hypotension, also can contribute to falls in Parkinson disease. In this patient, history and gait assessment did not reveal any interference with balance caused by freezing of gait or lower body dyskinesia, and he had no symptoms or findings suggestive of orthostatic hypotension.
The head impulse (or thrust) test involves asking the patient to keep eyes focused on a distant object; the examiner then suddenly turns the head approximately 20 degrees. Patients with a normal vestibuloocular reflex remain focused on the object. An abnormal response, indicating a peripheral vestibular lesion, is movement of the eyes off the target followed by jerking of the eyes back to the target (corrective saccade). In this patient, the absence of vertigo and dizziness makes a vestibular cause less likely and testing unnecessary. The Dix-Hallpike test is another bedside test for assessment of peripheral vestibular pathology and is most helpful in the presence of vertigo, which is absent here.
A positive Romberg test, defined as severe unsteadiness elicited by eye closure in a patient standing comfortably, indicates impairment of large sensory pathways at the spinal-cord or peripheral nerve level. The absence of abnormal findings on sensory and reflex examinations makes a sensory ataxia less likely in this patient.
Tandem gait, in which a patient walks on a straight line, may be intact in the early phase of Parkinson disease. An impaired tandem gait, however, can indicate cerebellar or sensory ataxia or other causes of imbalance but is not a sensitive or specific predictor of backward falls.

**Bibliography**

Canning CG, Paul SS, Nieuwboer A. Prevention of falls in Parkinson's disease: a review of fall risk factors and the role of physical interventions. Neurodegener Dis Manag. 2014;4:203-21. PMID: 25095816 doi:10.2217/nmt.14.22

This content was last updated in August 2018.