
### Correct Answer: C) Primary stabbing headache 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose primary stabbing headache.

#### **Key Point:** Primary stabbing headache is characterized by transient localized stabs of head pain that occur spontaneously in the absence of organic disease and typically last seconds; this headache is common among those with a history of migraine

This patient most likely has a primary stabbing headache (also known as an “ice-pick” headache). The condition is characterized by transient localized stabs of head pain that occur spontaneously in the absence of organic disease and typically last seconds, with some lingering for 1 to 2 minutes; a less-localized dull ache or soreness lasting minutes may follow. The frequency of primary stabbing headache averages less than one per day in most patients, but headache attacks also can occur in series. Periods of activity and remission are common. Pain can occur anywhere on the head, including the eye, but the face is often spared. Primary stabbing headache is more common among those with a history of migraine. No cranial autonomic symptoms are reported. Indomethacin may be helpful during cycles of repeated occurrences but is rarely necessary.
Cluster headache is characterized by episodes of severe pain localized to the periorbital or temporal area with associated ipsilateral cranial autonomic features. Attacks of cluster headache may last 15 to 180 minutes and recur one to eight times daily over a span of weeks to months; the shorter duration distinguishes cluster headache from migraine. Many of the attacks are nocturnal, and some may be provoked by alcohol ingestion. The brief duration, parietal location, and absence of autonomic features in this case make cluster headache unlikely.
A new daily persistent headache is one with an identifiable and remembered onset. Pain becomes continuous and unremitting within 24 hours, a quality absent in this patient. The pain lacks many characteristic features, but the most common phenotype is similar to that of chronic tension-type headache. This disorder has no known treatment.
This patient's pain is occurring in an extratrigeminal location incompatible with the diagnosis of trigeminal neuralgia.
Of note, hemicrania continua is characterized by continuous head discomfort isolated and “locked” to one side. Some patients experience brief intense exacerbations of head pain that may be sharp and similar to that of primary stabbing headache. The condition, however, is known to display ipsilateral autonomic features not present in this patient, such as conjunctival injection, lacrimation, nasal congestion, rhinorrhea, forehead and facial sweating, miosis, and ptosis (and/or eyelid edema). An ipsilateral foreign body sensation in the eye is common. This headache is absolutely sensitive to indomethacin.

**Bibliography**

Chua AL, Nahas S. Ice pick headache. Curr Pain Headache Rep. 2016 May;20(5):30. PMID: 27038969 doi: 10.1007/s11916-016-0559-7

This content was last updated in August 2018.