
### Correct Answer: A) Lamotrigine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat focal seizures in an older patient with multiple comorbidities.

#### **Key Point:** Lamotrigine is the most appropriate treatment for epilepsy with focal seizure in older patients because of strong evidence of its safety and effectiveness.

This patient should be treated with lamotrigine. He has a history of focal seizures with altered awareness (formerly known as complex partial seizures) and also has had a generalized tonic-clonic seizure. Only a few antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) (namely, lamotrigine, levetiracetam, topiramate, valproic acid, and zonisamide) are considered broad-spectrum agents and can be used to treat both generalized and partial epilepsy syndromes. Other narrow-spectrum AEDs (such as carbamazepine, gabapentin, oxcarbazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, and pregabalin) have the potential to exacerbate seizures in patients with generalized epilepsy. Lamotrigine is the most appropriate treatment because of the good evidence of its safety and effectiveness in epilepsy with focal seizures, especially in older patients, and is effective in generalized seizures. Lamotrigine is unlikely to cause cognitive dysfunction and does not affect blood counts, the liver, the kidney, or electrolytes. Although lamotrigine is associated with Stevens-Johnson syndrome, the drug can be titrated slowly to minimize risk; this patient's seizures are infrequent enough to allow for a 6- to 8-week titration. Although all the other drugs listed are likely effective in controlling seizures, lamotrigine also has a lower risk of adverse effects.
Oxcarbazepine is known to cause hyponatremia, especially in older patients taking thiazide diuretics, and thus should be avoided in this patient.
Phenytoin can lead to dizziness, ataxia, tremor, peripheral neuropathy, cerebellar atrophy, and agranulocytosis. Additionally, it has a narrow therapeutic window that is difficult to maintain, especially in older patients who are usually more sensitive to its zero-order pharmacokinetics at higher doses (constant absorption rate independent of concentration).
Kidney stones and cognitive impairment can be exacerbated by topiramate. The drug should be avoided in this patient with mild cognitive impairment and nephrolithiasis.
Valproic acid can cause tremor, cognitive dysfunction (including parkinsonism-associated dementia in older persons), and thrombocytopenia and thus is inappropriate for this patient.

**Bibliography**

Motika PV, Spencer DC. Treatment of epilepsy in the elderly. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep. 2016;16:96. PMID: 27628963 doi:10.1007/s11910-016-0696-8

This content was last updated in August 2018.