
### Correct Answer: C) Frontotemporal dementia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose frontotemporal dementia.

#### **Key Point:** Frontotemporal dementia typically involves an alteration in personality and behavior that develops years before the onset of cognitive impairment.

This patient's age, gender, history, and cognitive evaluation findings all support a diagnosis of behavioral-variant frontotemporal dementia (FTD). FTD typically involves an alteration in personality and behavior that develops years before the onset of cognitive impairment; altered behaviors typically manifest as obsessive-compulsive tendencies, impulsivity, apathy, impaired judgment, emotional coldness, disinhibition, excessive spending, and excessive eating, particularly of high-calorie, nonnutritional foods. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the major form of motor neuron disease, is found in 20% to 30% of patients diagnosed with behavioral-variant FTD. The presence of motor neuron disease generally portends a much more rapid progression of FTD but is exceptionally rare in other neurodegenerative disorders.
Classically, Alzheimer disease presents with the insidious development of recent memory loss. Forgetfulness of the details of recent events predominates early in the disease course. Aphasia is frequently seen early and is initially characterized by word-finding difficulties. Visuospatial dysfunction also is common and often presents as episodes of becoming lost in familiar environments or problems in assembling objects (constructional apraxia). Executive dysfunction may manifest as impairment of problem-solving abilities, judgment, and multitasking. Obsessive-compulsive tendencies, impulsivity, apathy, impaired judgment, emotional coldness, disinhibition, and excessive eating are not typical of Alzheimer disease.
Core features of dementia with Lewy bodies are fluctuating cognition, recurrent visual hallucinations, and parkinsonism. Cognitive fluctuations include variations in both attention and level of arousal and can vary hour to hour, day to day, or week to week. These features are not present in this patient.
Cognitive impairments in Parkinson disease are subcortical, which implies that they primarily involve slow processing speed, impaired short-term memory, and attention deficits with relative sparing of cortical functions, such as language and declarative memory. Dopamine agonists are associated with higher risk of specific adverse effects, including impulse control disorder, punding (repetition of complex motor behaviors), sleep attacks, hallucinations, and confusion, that are not seen in untreated Parkinson disease.

**Bibliography**

Bang J, Spina S, Miller BL. Frontotemporal dementia. Lancet. 2015;386:1672-82. PMID: 26595641 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(15)00461-4

This content was last updated in August 2018.