
### Correct Answer: B) Multiple system atrophy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose multiple system atrophy.

#### **Key Point:** The combination of parkinsonism, cerebellar ataxia, dysautonomia, and early postural instability characterizes multiple system atrophy, a Parkinson-plus syndrome.

The combination of parkinsonism, cerebellar ataxia, dysautonomia, and early postural instability and falls in this patient is most consistent with multiple system atrophy, a Parkinson-plus syndrome. Typical autonomic deficits include orthostatic hypotension and urinary symptoms. Anosmia and acting out of dreams during sleep are suggestive of multiple system atrophy and Parkinson disease but not of progressive supranuclear palsy. A trial with levodopa may provide limited or partial benefit for this patient.
Corticobasal degeneration usually presents with markedly asymmetric parkinsonism and frequently is associated with dystonia, myoclonus, cortical sensory deficits, prominent cognitive dysfunction, and apraxia (impaired motor planning). MRI typically shows asymmetric posterior parietal and frontal cortical atrophy. The absence of these features makes this diagnosis less likely.
Many features of this patient's disorder are expected in idiopathic Parkinson disease, but the early prominent imbalance, recurrent falls, and cerebellar findings are atypical.
Given her early prominent postural instability, progressive supranuclear palsy is the main differential diagnosis in this patient. However, she does not have the characteristic impairment in vertical extraocular movements (supranuclear gaze palsy) that is typical. Additionally, the cerebellar features, asymmetric tremor, anosmia, and rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder are more typical of multiple system atrophy than progressive supranuclear palsy.
Patients with vascular parkinsonism have sudden or step-wise onset of symptoms and exhibit disproportionate involvement of the lower extremities. The involvement of the upper body, gradual course, nonmotor symptoms, and brain MRI findings in this patient make this diagnosis unlikely.

**Bibliography**

Aerts MB, Esselink RA, Post B, van de Warrenburg BP, Bloem BR. Improving the diagnostic accuracy in parkinsonism: a three-pronged approach. Pract Neurol. 2012;12:77-87. PMID: 22450452 doi:10.1136/practneurol-2011-000132

This content was last updated in August 2018.