
### Correct Answer: B) CT angiography of the head 

**Educational Objective:** Manage an acute stroke treated with thrombolysis.

#### **Key Point:** CT angiography of the head is the most appropriate test to determine candidacy for endovascular therapy in patients with a cardioembolic stroke who have undergone thrombolysis.

This patient should have CT angiography of the head. She has an acute ischemic stroke and was appropriately treated within 3 hours of symptom onset with intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (alteplase). The neurologic examination was consistent with an acute occlusion of the left intracranial internal carotid artery or middle cerebral artery. The patient's atrial fibrillation and subtherapeutic INR make a cardioembolic stroke subtype likely. Patients with an ischemic stroke and large-vessel occlusion have low recanalization rates with intravenous thrombolysis, and recently completed clinical trials have shown a clinical benefit from the addition of endovascular therapy, such as embolectomy, among carefully selected patients. The first step in patient selection requires the presence of a large vessel occlusion on vessel imaging, which is most quickly seen with CT angiography.
Because this patient already has received intravenous alteplase, all antithrombotics need to be held for at least 24 hours after a head CT shows no hemorrhage to prevent hemorrhagic conversion. In patients who do not receive thrombolysis, aspirin can reduce the risk of recurrent stroke within the first 2 weeks when administered within 48 hours of ischemic stroke onset.
Intravenous labetalol should not be administered to this patient. Her blood pressure does not meet the postthrombolytic treatment threshold (180/105 mm Hg). If clinical or radiographic evidence of hemorrhage is seen after treatment, lisinopril can be initiated.
MRI the area of infarction is not necessary for planning the next treatment steps. Furthermore, obtaining an MRI is time consuming and may lengthen the duration of time before an embolectomy can be performed. In acute ischemic stroke embolectomy trials, the greatest benefit occurred the faster treatment was initiated.

**Bibliography**

Powers WJ, Rabinstein AA, Ackerson T, Adeoye OM, Bambakidis NC, Becker K, et al; American Heart Association Stroke Council. 2018 Guidelines for the early management of patients with acute ischemic stroke: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke. 2018 Mar;49(3):e46-e110. [Epub 2018 Jan 24] PMID: 29367334 doi:10.1161/STR.0000000000000158

This content was last updated in August 2018.