
### Correct Answer: C) Intravenous dexamethasone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat brain herniation.

#### **Key Point:** Brain herniation in a patient with a malignant primary brain tumor should be emergently treated with a glucocorticoid, particularly dexamethasone.

This patient should receive intravenous dexamethasone. He has a primary brain tumor (most likely, a high-grade glioma) that has expanded and led to brainstem compression, as suggested by the focal ocular and limb examination findings. The subsequent development of fixed, dilated pupils in the presence of acute coma indicates brainstem herniation. His elevated blood pressure, irregular respirations, and bradycardia (Cushing triad) are typical of elevated intracranial pressure, which can be caused by herniation. His condition represents a neurologic emergency and requires immediate treatment with intravenous glucocorticoids. Dexamethasone is the preferred agent because of its lack of mineralocorticoid effects. Although glucocorticoids are generally avoided when lymphoma is suspected, the presence of brain herniation is an exception because death is likely if the herniation is not treated.
While considering more definitive treatment options, such as surgical decompression or resection, other temporizing, immediate measures also should be taken, including elevation of the head of the bed to 30 degrees, artificial hyperventilation, and (possibly) osmotic diuresis with mannitol or hypertonic saline. Because artificial respiratory alkalosis will lower intracranial pressure, herniation is an indication for emergent intubation, even in the absence of respiratory compromise. Although surgical resection is the definitive treatment for many gliomas, treatment of herniation takes precedence because of its associated mortality, and other temporizing measures, including glucocorticoid administration, are needed to stabilize the patient for necessary emergent CT to confirm the herniation and assess for its cause (for example, stroke, tumor, or hemorrhage).
Brain MRI is appropriate to further characterize the lesion and help in planning for biopsy or resection, but treatment for herniation should not be delayed while awaiting MRI results. In an emergency situation, CT is preferred because it is can be performed more rapidly and is more widely available.
Brain biopsy may be necessary eventually. However, administration of glucocorticoids is the most appropriate first step because they can be administered immediately and may be lifesaving.
Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), such as levetiracetam, may be considered if the patient develops seizures or needs perioperative prophylaxis, but their administration is not a first priority in this patient because AEDs have no effect on herniation, which is an immediate threat to life.

**Bibliography**

Stevens RD, Shoykhet M, Cadena R. Emergency neurological life support: intracranial hypertension and herniation. Neurocrit Care. 2015;23 Suppl 2:S76-82. PMID: 26438459 doi:10.1007/s12028-015-0168-z

This content was last updated in August 2018.