
### Correct Answer: A) Head CT 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a first-time unprovoked seizure.

#### **Key Point:** In a patient with an unprovoked, first-time seizure, head CT is the most appropriate initial study to rapidly exclude emergent pathologic issues.

This patient should have CT of the head. Neuroimaging is indicated in all patients with a first-time seizure to rapidly exclude conditions requiring emergent intervention, including hemorrhage. Head CT is the most appropriate initial study because it typically is readily available in most emergency departments and can be performed rapidly. The patient will later require both MRI and electroencephalography, but CT is the best initial study.
Levetiracetam and other antiepileptic drugs are not recommended for first-time seizures until the results of further testing, such as head CT, brain MRI, and electroencephalography (EEG), are known and the recurrence risk of seizures can be determined. He had an unprovoked seizure but does not meet criteria for the diagnosis of epilepsy (at least two unprovoked seizures more than 24 hours apart, or one unprovoked seizure with a high risk of recurrence on the basis of abnormalities found on testing). The 2-year recurrence risk after a single generalized tonic-clonic seizure in patients with normal findings on clinical examination, no epilepsy risk factors, and a normal head CT scan is approximately 40%; that number decreases to about 20% if MRI and EEG are normal. In the setting of two unprovoked seizures or one unprovoked seizure with significant EEG or MRI abnormalities, recurrence risk is at least 60% and treatment is recommended
Although this seizure lasted 5 minutes and thus would meet the definition of convulsive status epilepticus (CSE) if seizure activity were ongoing, the patient has recovered completely and has normal findings on clinical examination. Therefore, he does not have CSE, and intravenous lorazepam is not indicated.
In adults, lumbar puncture is appropriate when meningitis is clinically suspected (for example, in the presence of neck stiffness, altered mental status, or fever) or when a patient has symptoms highly suggestive of subarachnoid hemorrhage in conjunction with normal noncontrast head CT findings. It otherwise is not indicated after a seizure in adults.

**Bibliography**

Gavvala JR, Schuele SU. New-onset seizure in adults and adolescents: a review. JAMA. 2016;316:2657-68. PMID: 28027373 doi:10.1001/jama.2016.18625

This content was last updated in August 2018.