
### Correct Answer: D) Piperacillin-tazobactam 

**Educational Objective:** Avoid using antibiotics that lower seizure threshold in patients with epilepsy.

#### **Key Point:** Although evidence is limited, carbapenems, fluoroquinolones, and fourth-generation cephalosporins may lower the seizure threshold and thus should be avoided in patients with epilepsy.

Given his history of epilepsy, this patient should receive an injection of piperacillin-tazobactam as treatment of his hospital-acquired pneumonia. This drug has the lowest risk of triggering seizures of the drugs listed. Although all four choices may trigger seizures, piperacillin-tazobactam and non–fourth-generation cephalosporins have the weakest association with triggering seizures in patients with epilepsy (class IV evidence that seizure association is not well established in patients with epilepsy or past seizures).
Cefepime and carbapenems (such as imipenem) have class III evidence of triggering seizures in patients with epilepsy. In addition, cefepime has been known to cause encephalopathy, coma, and status epilepticus in patients with or without epilepsy, especially those with acute kidney injury.
There is class IV evidence that fluoroquinolones (such as levofloxacin) and fourth-generation cephalosporins lower the seizure threshold, including in patients with epilepsy.

**Bibliography**

Sutter R, Rüegg S, Tschudin-Sutter S. Seizures as adverse events of antibiotic drugs: A systematic review. Neurology. 2015;85:1332-41. PMID: 26400582 doi:10.1212/WNL.0000000000002023

This content was last updated in August 2018.