
### Correct Answer: B) Aspirin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat ischemic stroke with antiplatelet agents.

#### **Key Point:** In the absence of thrombolytic therapy for cardioembolic stroke, short-term therapy with aspirin reduces the risk of stroke at 2 weeks.

This patient should be treated with aspirin. She most likely has a cardioembolic stroke related to atrial fibrillation. She is beyond the treatment window for intravenous thrombolysis and is not a candidate for intra-arterial therapy because of the location of the lesion in the posterior circulation and already demonstrated infarction. Therefore, medical therapy is indicated for preventing recurrent stroke. Only aspirin and heparinoids have been studied for their effectiveness in the acute stroke setting, and only aspirin has been shown to reduce the risk of stroke at 2 weeks. Therefore, aspirin monotherapy is a reasonable first-line antiplatelet regimen for secondary stroke prevention in the acute setting. For stable patients with small strokes, long-term warfarin therapy is typically administered 24 hours after hospitalization to reduce the risk of hemorrhagic transformation. Hemorrhagic transformation is more likely to occur in larger infarcts (those involving more than one third of hemispheric volume) and in infarcts with a cardioembolic cause. Warfarin is often withheld for 2 weeks in the setting of large strokes, strokes that have undergone hemorrhagic transformation, or uncontrolled hypertension.
The use of novel oral anticoagulants, including apixaban, has not been established as effective in the acute setting after a stroke. Apixaban may be a reasonable long-term option for stroke prevention at hospital discharge.
Clopidogrel has not been studied as monotherapy for acute ischemic stroke and is currently not recommended.
Intravenous heparin is not effective in reducing the risk of recurrent stroke within the acute hospitalization period in patients with all stroke subtypes, including ischemic strokes with a cardioembolic cause. Intravenous heparin can be considered in patients with a high short-term risk of recurrent ischemic stroke, such as those with mechanical heart valves, but the benefit of this approach must be weighed against the risk of hemorrhagic conversion.

**Bibliography**

Kernan WN, Ovbiagele B, Black HR, Bravata DM, Chimowitz MI, Ezekowitz MD, et al; American Heart Association Stroke Council, Council on Cardiovascular and Stroke Nursing, Council on Clinical Cardiology, and Council on Peripheral Vascular Disease. Guidelines for the prevention of stroke in patients with stroke and transient ischemic attack: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke. 2014 Jul;45(7):2160-236. PMID: 24788967 doi:10.1161/STR.0000000000000024

This content was last updated in August 2018.