
### Correct Answer: C) Neuropsychological testing 

**Educational Objective:** Manage mild traumatic brain injury in an athlete.

#### **Key Point:** Besides initial screening with a symptom checklist and a neurologic examination, including assessments of cognition and balance, neuropsychological testing should be part of a comprehensive mild traumatic brain injury management strategy for patients with persistent symptoms.

The patient should undergo neuropsychological testing. She sustained a mild closed head injury with typical symptoms of a concussion. Loss of consciousness established the presence of mild traumatic brain injury (TBI). Headache, nausea, dizziness, and cognitive dysfunction are all typical symptoms of postconcussion syndrome. Guidelines recommend initial screening with a symptom checklist and a neurologic examination, including assessments of cognition and balance. Guidelines also recommend head CT in those with suspected hemorrhage. Neuropsychological testing provides an additional objective and more sensitive measure of cognitive function and should be part of a comprehensive TBI management strategy for patients with persistent symptoms.
Amantadine has been shown to be useful in the management of severe traumatic brain injuries. Data suggest that treatment with amantadine can accelerate functional recovery among patients in vegetative or minimally conscious states after a TBI and can effectively accelerate the pace of recovery of cognitively mediated behaviors compared with placebo. However, there is insufficient evidence to recommend amantadine in cases of mild TBI.
A brain MRI is not indicated in this patient, who has shown symptomatic improvement in the 2 weeks since injury and now has normal neurologic examination findings. Further neuroimaging is unnecessary.
Return to play before complete recovery may increase the risk of recurrent injury. Concussion symptoms should have resolved completely before the patient resumes exercise. A return-to-play program should then involve a stepwise increase in physical activity, with monitoring for recurrence of symptoms. Guidelines recommend that a patient be asymptomatic without medication both at rest and when subjected to physical exertion. The presence of continued cognitive symptoms in this patient makes return to play inappropriate at this time.

**Bibliography**

Wasserman EB, Kerr ZY, Zuckerman SL, Covassin T. Epidemiology of sports-related concussions in National Collegiate Athletic Association athletes from 2009-2010 to 2013-2014: symptom prevalence, symptom resolution time, and return-to-play time. Am J Sports Med. 2016 Jan;44(1):226-33. PMID: 26546304 doi: 10.1177/0363546515610537

This content was last updated in August 2018.