
### Correct Answer: B) Donepezil 

**Educational Objective:** Treat cognitive impairment in a patient with vascular cognitive impairment.

#### **Key Point:** Treatment of vascular cognitive impairment should focus on identifying and treating cerebrovascular risk factors; off-label use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors has shown modest benefit in clinical trials and thus is generally recommended for this condition.

The most appropriate medication for this patient's cognitive impairment is the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor donepezil. Given her history of multiple strokes, pseudobulbar affect (a neurologic disorder characterized by involuntary outbursts of laughing and/or crying that are out of proportion to the emotions being experienced), prominent gait problems, and asymmetric neurologic findings, she most likely has vascular cognitive impairment. Treatment of vascular cognitive impairment should focus on identifying and treating cerebrovascular risk factors, such as smoking, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, ischemic heart disease, atrial fibrillation, and hypercoagulable states. Although not yet FDA approved as treatment of vascular cognitive impairment, acetylcholinesterase inhibitors have shown modest benefit in clinical trials and are generally recommended for this type of dementia.
Citalopram and other selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are appropriate to treat the pseudobulbar symptoms exhibited by this patient but are unlikely to improve her cognitive deficits.
Ginkgo biloba has not been found to be more effective for dementia than placebo in controlled trials. Because this herbal supplement also is associated with increased bleeding, it is contraindicated in patients taking anticoagulant or antiplatelet agents.
Methylphenidate has been shown to be effective in treating the severe apathy often associated with vascular cognitive impairment. This patient has no evidence of apathy. In addition, this agent can raise blood pressure and is inappropriate for this patient with hypertension.

**Bibliography**

Ritter A, Pillai JA. Treatment of vascular cognitive impairment. Curr Treat Options Neurol. 2015;17:367. PMID: 26094078 doi:10.1007/s11940-015-0367-0

This content was last updated in August 2018.