
### Correct Answer: D) Prednisone administration 

**Educational Objective:** Treat immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy.

#### **Key Point:** Immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy is a form of statin myopathy that is associated with antibodies to hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase and biopsy evidence of muscle necrosis without inflammation; treatment with a glucocorticoid or other immunosuppressive agents can reverse the myopathy.

This patient, whose progressive muscle weakness has persisted after discontinuation of simvastatin and who has biopsy evidence of necrotizing myopathy without inflammation, should be treated with a glucocorticoid, such as prednisone. He most likely has immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy. This condition can be triggered by previous exposure to statins but is distinguished from more common statin-induced toxic myopathies by progression of muscle necrosis and weakness after removal of the statin. The presence of antibodies to hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase is disease specific and can further support the diagnosis because these antibodies are absent in patients with nonnecrotizing statin myopathy or in those without myopathy who take statins. Treatment with a glucocorticoid or other immunosuppressive agents can reverse the myopathy. In patients who have fully recovered from a previous episode of nonnecrotizing myopathy caused by a lipophilic statin, such as simvastatin, resumption of treatment with a hydrophilic statin, such as pravastatin, may be considered.
Although glucocorticoid-sparing immunosuppressive medications, such as azathioprine, are sometimes used as second-line therapy in other inflammatory myopathies (for example, polymyositis), evidence is limited with these agents in immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy. In addition, azathioprine has a delayed mechanism of action and is not immediately effective. Glucocorticoids are much more effective as first-line therapy.
Continued clinical monitoring is indicated in nonnecrotic statin myopathy, in which symptoms gradually improve in the absence of the causative agent. Progressive weakness and ongoing necrosis on biopsy should prompt suspicion of immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy, which requires immunosuppressive therapy.
The benefit of coenzyme Q10 as a protective agent against statin-induced myopathy remains controversial. No evidence suggests that coenzyme Q10 supplementation is effective against immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy.

**Bibliography**

Mohassel P, Mammen AL. Statin-associated autoimmune myopathy and anti-HMGCR autoantibodies. Muscle Nerve. 2013;48:477-83. PMID: 23519993 doi:10.1002/mus.23854

This content was last updated in August 2018.