
### Correct Answer: B) Epidural blood patch 

**Educational Objective:** Manage intracranial hypotension.

#### **Key Point:** Placement of an epidural blood patch is the initial treatment of choice for patients with intracranial hypotension; CT myelography is appropriate for those who do not respond to this treatment.

This patient has intracranial hypotension and should undergo placement of an epidural blood patch (EBP). Spontaneous intracranial hypotension classically presents with an orthostatic headache. The interval between postural change and headache development is highly variable. When the headache duration is weeks to months, the orthostatic component may fade completely. Presentation may be thunderclap (maximum onset within 1 minute) or subacute. Intracranial hypotension is the result of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage that can arise as a result of lumbar puncture, surgery, or trauma or can occur spontaneously. Associated features include tinnitus, diplopia, neck pain, nausea, photophobia, and phonophobia. Clinical examination findings are typically normal but occasionally reveal a “falsely localizing” abducens nerve (cranial nerve VI) palsy. Female sex, middle age, and connective tissue disorders are risk factors. Brain MRI with contrast is abnormal in 80% of affected patients, with possible findings of diffuse nonnodular pachymeningeal enhancement, cerebellar tonsillar abnormalities, and subdural fluid collections.
Use of an EBP is the initial treatment of choice. Patients who do not respond to this treatment should undergo CT myelography for potential detection of the precise site of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leakage. Subsequent treatments may include a repeat EBP or surgical repair of the identified site.
Acetazolamide is indicated in patients with intracranial hypertension but relatively contraindicated in cases of intracranial hypotension.
A diagnosis of intracranial hypotension can be confirmed by a CSF opening pressure of less than 60 mm H2O, but lumbar puncture would introduce another site of potential CSF leakage. In the presence of patient history and brain MRI abnormalities that are typical for intracranial hypotension, lumbar puncture is unnecessary and should be avoided.
Small subdural fluid collections are commonly seen in patients with intracranial hypotension and do not require surgical evacuation. Typical indications for surgical management include an acute subdural hematoma measuring greater than 10 mm in thickness, a Glasgow Coma Scale score less than 9, and pupillary asymmetry or fixation.

**Bibliography**

Hoffmann J, Goadsby PJ. Update on intracranial hypertension and hypotension. Curr Opin Neurol. 2013;26(3):240-7. PMID: 23594732 doi: 10.1097/WCO.0b013e328360eccc

This content was last updated in August 2018.