
### Correct Answer: D) MRI of the brain 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose multiple sclerosis.

#### **Key Point:** Because multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most common cause of transverse myelitis, MRI of the brain should be performed in patients with new-onset transverse myelitis to evaluate for MS lesions.

This patient should undergo MRI of the brain. She has signs and symptoms consistent with an episode of inflammatory transverse myelitis. Although idiopathic transverse myelitis can occur, the most common cause of a transverse myelitis event is multiple sclerosis (MS). MRI of the brain should be routinely performed in patients with new-onset transverse myelitis to evaluate for lesions consistent with MS, such as those located in periventricular, juxtacortical (or cortical), and infratentorial white matter. If these lesions are present, MS should be diagnosed if they fulfill the diagnostic criteria for dissemination in space and in time.
No MS-specific diagnostic biomarkers are available. Initial studies championed myelin basic protein as a potential marker of MS disease activity, but subsequent evidence found that this biomarker is not associated with MS disease activity and is not useful to confirm a diagnosis of MS.
Lumbar puncture to determine the presence of oligoclonal bands is not warranted. Although lumbar puncture sometimes is appropriate in the evaluation of MS, the presence or absence of oligoclonal bands is not part of multiple sclerosis diagnostic criteria because of poor sensitivity and specificity for the disease. Approximately 10% to 15% of patients with MS have normal cerebrospinal fluid on testing; additionally, oligoclonal bands are sometimes elevated in other inflammatory conditions. For these reasons, if MRI confirms the diagnosis of MS, CSF testing is unnecessary.
The erythrocyte sedimentation rate may be elevated in patients with inflammatory transverse myelitis. However, the test is nonspecific and would not lead to a diagnosis of the cause of this patient's myelitis, such as MS.
Detection of a subclinical lesion in a site remote from the region of clinical dysfunction supports a diagnosis of multifocal MS. Evoked potentials also may help define the anatomic site of the lesion in tracts not easily visualized by imaging (for example, optic nerves, dorsal columns). Evoked potential testing is reserved for situations in which the diagnosis of MS is equivocal. The best initial test remains a brain MRI.

**Bibliography**

Thompson AJ, Banwell BL, Barkhof F, Carroll WM, Coetzee T, Comi G, et al. Diagnosis of multiple sclerosis: 2017 revisions of the McDonald criteria. Lancet Neurol. 2017. [Epub ahead of print] PMID: 29275977 doi:10.1016/S1474-4422(17)30470-2

This content was last updated in August 2018.