
### Correct Answer: A) Administration of low-molecular-weight heparin 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent venous thromboembolism after a hemorrhagic stroke.

#### **Key Point:** Prophylactic heparin can be started 48 hours after a hemorrhagic stroke to prevent development of deep venous thrombosis as long as there is no evidence of active bleeding on neuroimaging

This patient should begin receiving low-molecular-weight heparin. He has severe hemiparesis. Two poststroke CT scans obtained 48 hours apart show no evidence of active bleeding. The hemiparesis places him at high risk of deep venous thrombosis (DVT), which is the leading complication of hospitalization for stroke. DVT is found in 11% of immobile patients at 1 week after stroke and pulmonary embolism in about 1% of patients with stroke. Prophylaxis with low-molecular-weight heparin can be started 48 hours after hemorrhagic stroke in patients with no evidence of active bleeding on imaging. Before that time, DVT prophylaxis is possible with external sequential compression devices.
Administering warfarin without heparin is not adequate for immediate and short-term prevention of DVT because the anticoagulant effect of warfarin is delayed for 36 to 72 hours. Because of the immediacy of its action, heparin is preferred.
A randomized trial of thigh-high graduated compression stockings showed no benefit in preventing venous thromboembolism in patients with all types of stroke and substantial leg weakness. Skin breaks, ulcers, blisters, and skin necrosis were significantly more common in patients wearing stockings.
Aspirin should not be resumed in this patient who has no immediate indication for use of antiplatelet agents, such as an acute myocardial infarction or a history of vascular stents. There is no evidence that aspirin is effective prophylaxis for DVT in hospitalized patients. Aspirin can be resumed in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage caused by hypertension 2 to 4 weeks after stroke onset if the hematoma has resolved on imaging and there is an appropriate high-risk indication.

**Bibliography**

Hemphill JC 3rd, Greenberg SM, Anderson CS, Becker K, Bendok BR, Cushman M, et al; American Heart Association Stroke Council. Guidelines for the management of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke. 2015;46:2032-60. PMID: 26022637 doi:10.1161/STR.0000000000000069

This content was last updated in August 2018.