
### Correct Answer: D) Physical therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat chronic cervical stenosis.

#### **Key Point:** Most patients with chronic cervical and lumbar stenosis respond well to conservative measures, such as physical therapy and pain control.

This patient should have physical therapy. Spinal cord compression can result from acute or chronic causes. Evaluation and confirmation of suspected acute spinal cord compression with appropriate neuroimaging studies should occur in an urgent manner. Immediate treatment may be necessary to prevent severe and irreversible neurologic injury. Patients with chronic spinal stenosis due to osteoarthritic degenerative spinal disease frequently have chronic myelopathic symptoms, most often involving the cervical and lumbar spines. This patient has chronic symptoms of cervical stenosis due to multilevel disc disease. Most patients with chronic cervical and lumbar stenosis respond well to conservative measures, such as physical therapy and pain control. However, those with symptoms of more moderate to severe disease who also have signs of myelopathy on examination, such as progressive leg weakness, spasticity, distal numbness, and bladder impairment, may require surgical intervention. The lack of these findings in this patient supports the use of conservative measures, such as physical therapy.
Gabapentin can be useful in patients with neuropathic pain. This patient, however, has none of the typical symptoms of neuropathic pain, such as burning, electrical, or frostbite-like sensations.
Immobilization of the neck in hard (or soft) cervical collar would be an unnecessary and excessive restriction for someone with chronic cervical stenosis, especially in light of potential adverse effects. A hard cervical collar most commonly is used for cervical spine stabilization after trauma, surgery, and fractures or dislocations. It would be excessive in this patient whose clinical examination and imaging findings show no true cord compression or spinal instability.
Although some patients with spinal stenosis will eventually require neurosurgical intervention, outcomes for multilevel disc disease are generally poor, and this approach should be used only after conservative measures have been exhausted. The finding of signal abnormality within the cord may correlate with the severity of compressive myelopathy. Multiple levels of signal abnormality may be a more significant finding than single-level changes. The lack of clear cord compression on examination or signal-intensity changes on MRI indicates that this patient does not need emergent surgery.

**Bibliography**

Rhee JM, Shamji MF, Erwin WM, Bransford RJ, Yoon ST, Smith JS, et al. Nonoperative management of cervical myelopathy: a systematic review. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2013;38:S55-67. PMID: 23963006 doi:10.1097/BRS.0b013e3182a7f41d

This content was last updated in August 2018.