
### Correct Answer: C) Memantine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with Alzheimer disease and sick sinus syndrome with memantine.

#### **Key Point:** Relative contraindications for the use of cholinesterase inhibitors in the treatment of dementia include sick sinus syndrome, left bundle branch block, uncontrolled asthma, angle-closure glaucoma, and ulcer disease.

This patient should receive memantine. She has probable Alzheimer disease, moderate stage, given the degree of functional impairment she exhibits and her Mini-Mental State Examination score. The treatment of Alzheimer dementia is multifactorial and is symptom targeted. Both cholinesterase inhibitors (such as donepezil) and the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist memantine are approved for treatment of moderate stages of Alzheimer disease. The cholinesterase inhibitors exert their effect by inhibiting the enzymes responsible for breaking down acetylcholine, thereby increasing the levels of acetylcholine in the neuronal synapse. No clinically significant difference in effectiveness has been shown between the cholinesterase inhibitors. Relative contraindications for their use include (but are not limited to) sick sinus syndrome, left bundle branch block, uncontrolled asthma, angle-closure glaucoma, and ulcer disease. Memantine is believed to reduce glutamate-mediated neurotoxicity in the central nervous system, is not associated with adverse cardiovascular effects, and thus is the most appropriate treatment for this patient.
Benzodiazepines (such as alprazolam) and antipsychotic agents (such as risperidone) should be used only in very limited circumstances in patients with Alzheimer disease who have severe psychosis and anxiety. At this point in her disease course, this patient has neither.
In patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer disease, donepezil and other acetylcholinesterase inhibitors have had modest benefits in improving cognitive performance without clear improvements in daily functioning. Because of this patient's cardiac history, donepezil is not an appropriate medication.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (such as paroxetine) can be helpful for improving mood and treating psychiatric and behavioral symptoms of dementia. This patient's symptoms are mild at this time, do not warrant use of this drug class, and should be treated with behavioral management.

**Bibliography**

Molano JR1, Bratt R, Shatz R. Treatment and management of dementia due to Alzheimer's disease. Curr Treat Options Neurol. 2015 Aug;17(8):363. PMID: 26135252 doi: 10.1007/s11940-015-0363-4

This content was last updated in August 2018.