
### Correct Answer: B) Brain MRI 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose a secondary headache.

#### **Key Point:** Brain MRI is the most appropriate diagnostic study for patients with a suspected secondary headache and should be performed before additional testing is considered.

This patient should have a brain MRI. His development of a new headache after age 50 years, use of an anticoagulant, and progressive headache pattern are all red flags indicating a potential secondary headache condition. Other red flags for secondary headache include first or worst headache, abrupt-onset or thunderclap attack, episode associated with neurologic symptoms lasting more than 1 hour, alterations in consciousness, abnormal physical examination findings, and onset after exertion, sex, or Valsalva maneuvers. Brain MRI is the most appropriate diagnostic study for patients with a suspected secondary headache and should be performed before additional testing is considered.
Amitriptyline is the treatment of choice for prevention of chronic tension-type headache. Diagnosis of this condition, however, first requires exclusion of a secondary headache. Although features of the patient's clinical presentation may suggest a tension-type headache syndrome, the presence of red flags makes brain neuroimaging a priority.
Neck pain is a nonspecific feature common to many primary and secondary headache syndromes. Its presence does not necessarily indicate a primary pathologic abnormality in the cervical region. Neurologic examination findings do not suggest cervical radiculopathy or myelopathy and thus an MRI of the cervical spine is not indicated.
Head CT is indicated in the assessment of acute severe headache in an emergent setting. In these situations, intracranial hemorrhage often is suspected and is well-visualized by a noncontrast CT scan. Given its greater sensitivity and safety, brain MRI is recommended in the evaluation of subacute or chronic headache requiring imaging.
Temporal artery biopsy is helpful in the evaluation of suspected giant cell arteritis. Most patients with this disorder are older than 50 years. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein level are frequently elevated. Brain MRI and reversal of anticoagulation are both indicated before temporal artery biopsy.

**Bibliography**

Nye BL, Ward TN. Clinic and emergency room evaluation and testing of headache. Headache. 2015 Oct;55(9):1301-8. PMID: 26422648 doi: 10.1111/head.12648

This content was last updated in August 2018.