
### Correct Answer: B) Ophthalmologic examinations 

**Educational Objective:** Monitor for adverse effects of multiple sclerosis treatment.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with multiple sclerosis who take fingolimod as a disease-modifying therapy, regular ophthalmic examinations are necessary because of the increased risk of macular edema with this medication.

This patient should now have regular ophthalmologic examinations. Fingolimod is a once-daily pill that results in sequestration of activated lymphocytes in lymph nodes. Fingolimod reduces relapse rates by approximately half over 2 years compared with placebo and also reduces the risk of disability progression and accumulation of new MRI lesions. In clinical trials of fingolimod as treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS), the medication was found to confer a 0.5% risk of macular edema. This adverse effect is reversible and typically resolves after discontinuation of the drug. If unrecognized, however, macular edema can result in permanent visual deficits. Therefore, regular macular examinations (that is, visual evaluation or measurement through optical coherence tomography) are recommended for patients taking this medication. Fingolimod also requires first-dose monitoring because of the first-dose bradycardia that occurs in most patients and should not be used in patients with heart block.
There have been rare reports of patients who take fingolimod as a disease-modifying therapy for MS developing progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). However, no evidence suggests that serum antibodies to the JC virus are a useful tool for predicting this adverse effect of the drug. Extensive data do support serum testing to predict the risk of PML in patients with MS who take natalizumab, in whom PML is much more common. The overall risk is approximately 1 in 1000 but is significantly higher in patients who have previous exposure to immunosuppressant agents or chemotherapy and those who have elevated serum titers of antibodies against the JC virus. Stratification of risk by treatment history and JC virus antibody testing is thus an important step before initiating natalizumab.
Kidney complications have not been associated with fingolimod use, which makes serum creatine measurement every 6 months unnecessary.
Tuberculosis has not been reported as an adverse effect of fingolimod. Although the risk of opportunistic infections may be increased with use of this drug, tuberculin skin testing is not recommended specifically, and given this patient's office-based occupation, she has no specific expected exposures that would require such testing.

**Bibliography**

Jain N, Bhatti MT. Fingolimod-associated macular edema: incidence, detection, and management. Neurology. 2012;78:672-80. PMID: 22371414 doi:10.1212/WNL.0b013e318248deea

This content was last updated in August 2018.