
### Correct Answer: D) Primary progressive aphasia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose primary progressive aphasia.

#### **Key Point:** Primary progressive aphasia is a language-predominant neurodegenerative dementia in which language is often the only cognitive domain affected for years before the development of additional cognitive deterioration; structural brain imaging often shows asymmetric involvement of the left temporal lobe.

The most likely diagnosis is language-variant frontotemporal dementia, also known as primary progressive aphasia (PPA). Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) comprises two distinct clinical syndromes. The first, behavioral-variant FTD, is associated with prominent changes in behavior, personality, or executive function. The second, PPA, is associated with prominent and early changes in language function and is further subclassified according to the pattern of language impairment: semantic (or fluent) aphasia, nonfluent (agrammatic) aphasia, and logopenic aphasia. Semantic aphasia, as demonstrated by this patient, is characterized by early prominent difficulty with language comprehension. Nonfluent aphasia is recognized by changes in language production. Logopenic aphasia describes hesitant but grammatically correct speech. Although language decline is common in many dementia syndromes, in PPA it is the symptom noted first, and language is often the only cognitive domain affected for years before the development of additional cognitive deterioration. Structural brain imaging typically reveals asymmetric involvement of the left temporal lobe (which controls language in most patients), as shown (arrow).
Persistent forgetfulness is the hallmark of Alzheimer disease, beginning with objects, appointments, names, and other apparently trivial items. As the disease progresses, memories are lost, and problems with word-finding ability become apparent.
The most prominent feature of behavioral-variant FTD is an alteration in personality and behavior that typically develops years before the onset of cognitive impairment. Apathy, diminished interest, loss of empathy, lack of initiative, increased emotionality, disinhibition, euphoria, impulsivity, changes in eating behaviors, and compulsiveness are the most common symptoms reported by families.
Patients with dementia with Lewy bodies may demonstrate a pattern of cognitive impairment with psychiatric features of personality change, apathy, depression, and psychosis. Abnormal dream enactment behavior during rapid-eye movement (REM) sleep in which patients fight or call out in their sleep (REM sleep behavior disorder) may precede the onset of cognitive decline or motor symptoms by years.

**Bibliography**

Mesulam MM, Rogalski EJ, Wieneke C, Hurley RS, Geula C, Bigio EH, et al. Primary progressive aphasia and the evolving neurology of the language network. Nat Rev Neurol. 2014;10:554-69. PMID: 25179257 doi:10.1038/nrneurol.2014.159

This content was last updated in August 2018.