
### Correct Answer: C) Tardive dyskinesia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose a medication-induced movement disorder.

#### **Key Point:** Tardive dyskinesia can be caused by exposure to dopamine-blocking agents, such as neuroleptic and antiemetic agents, and may persist for more than 6 months after removal of the offending medication or become permanent.

This patient has tardive dyskinesia. Involuntary choreiform movements, most often involving the face and hands, can be an adverse effect of long-term exposure to dopamine-blocking agents, including neuroleptic agents and chronic antiemetic medications, such as metoclopramide. Removal of the causative medication is key to treatment, but symptoms of tardive dyskinesia can take months to resolve or may become permanent. A longer duration and higher dose of the causative medication, older age, and female sex carry a higher risk of permanent dyskinesia. The risk of tardive dyskinesia should be discussed with patients before starting chronic dopamine-blocking agents. Pharmacologic treatment of tardive dyskinesia is often unsatisfactory, but options include clonazepam, tetrabenazine, valbenazine, anticholinergic agents, and clozapine. The persistence of involuntary movements 6 months after removal of metoclopramide is most consistent with tardive dyskinesia. The initial symptoms of shuffling gait and pill-rolling tremor were likely due to neuroleptic-induced parkinsonism, a distinct movement disorder that, unlike tardive dyskinesia, is reversible with discontinuation of the causative dopamine-blocking agent.
Akathisia and dystonic reaction are both caused by exposure to dopamine-blocking agents of the neuroleptic or antiemetic class; these disorders occur acutely and do not account for the persistent symptoms described. Akathisia is a movement disorder characterized by a feeling of restlessness and an overwhelming need to be in motion manifested as pacing, rocking from foot to foot, lifting the feet as if marching in place, and crossing and uncrossing the legs; this patient does not have a need to move, and her symptoms are more limited than what is typically seen with akathisia. Acute dystonic reaction consists of sustained, frequently painful muscle contractions that can cause abnormal twisting postures, repetitive movements, and difficulty speaking. It may be limited to the head and neck, but the choreiform appearance of movements and their persistence months after removal of the offending medication make it an unlikely cause in this patient.
Withdrawal emergent syndrome is characterized by dyskinesia starting after sudden withdrawal of a dopamine-blocking agent; the disorder usually is managed by reinstitution of the causative agent (or another agent from same class) and a subsequent slow taper over few months. In this patient, the presence of dyskinesia before the offending medication was removed and its persistence for 6 months after removal is not consistent with withdrawal emergent syndrome.

**Bibliography**

Caroff SN, Campbell EC. Drug-induced extrapyramidal syndromes: implications for contemporary practice. Psychiatr Clin North Am. 2016;39:391-411. PMID: 27514296 doi:10.1016/j.psc.2016.04.003

This content was last updated in August 2018.