
### Correct Answer: C) Lisinopril 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a hemorrhagic stroke with an ACE inhibitor.

#### **Key Point:** After the acute phase of stroke, patients with hypertension should be treated with antihypertensive therapy to reduce the risk of recurrent stroke.

The patient had an intracerebral hemorrhage in the thalamus due to hypertension. Given his age and hypertension, the hemorrhage is unlikely to have had a secondary cause. During acute hospitalization for an intracerebral hemorrhage, lowering the blood pressure acutely is recommended, although achieving systolic blood pressure levels of less than 140 mm Hg is associated with increased adverse events. After the initial hospitalization, however, the risk of recurrent ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke remains increased if the blood pressure is higher than 130/80 mm Hg, according to secondary prevention trials of stroke examining the effectiveness of ACE inhibitors. There is no contraindication to starting an ACE inhibitor, such as lisinopril, which reduces the risk of ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke regardless of blood pressure levels.
Aspirin is an inappropriate treatment for this patient who has no clear indications for secondary prevention of ischemic stroke or other ischemic cardiovascular disease events. If a patient were to require an antiplatelet agent in the setting of known atherosclerotic disease (for example), aspirin can be safely started 30 days after an initial hemorrhagic stroke if the original event was due to hypertension and the blood pressure is well controlled.
The patient does not require fluoxetine because currently there is no evidence of clinical depression. Low-dose fluoxetine was shown to be better than placebo at improving motor function after stroke, but only when the drug was administered during the acute hospitalization. In the chronic setting, fluoxetine has not been shown to improve stroke recovery, and several reports suggest a potential increase in the risk of hemorrhage with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors.
Rosuvastatin is not appropriate as treatment for this patient, whose serum LDL cholesterol level is not elevated, who has no evidence of atherosclerotic disease or diabetes mellitus, and whose 10-year atherosclerotic risk is less than 7.5%.

**Bibliography**

Hemphill JC 3rd, Greenberg SM, Anderson CS, Becker K, Bendok BR, Cushman M, et al; American Heart Association Stroke Council. Guidelines for the management of spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke. 2015;46:2032-60. PMID: 26022637 doi:10.1161/STR.0000000000000069

This content was last updated in August 2018.