
### Correct Answer: C) Oral prednisone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat Bell palsy.

#### **Key Point:** Oral prednisone administered within 72 hours of symptom onset expedites the speed and rate of full recovery in patients with Bell palsy.

Oral prednisone should be given to this patient with Bell palsy within 72 hours of symptom onset to expedite the speed and rate of full recovery. Clinical history and examination findings in this patient are classic for Bell palsy, and thus no initial imaging or laboratory testing is indicated. Unilateral facial weakness involving both upper and lower parts of the face is characteristic of peripheral facial nerve (cranial nerve VII) involvement and distinguishes this condition from a central nervous system process (such as stroke), which typically spares the upper facial muscles because of bilateral innervation. Associated features of classic Bell palsy include alteration in taste (due to involvement of the chorda tympani) and hyperacusis (intolerance of loud noise due to involvement of stapedius muscle); other common features are ipsilateral sensory paresthesia and pain without objective sensory loss. Because this patient does not have subjective or objective hearing loss or any other involvement beyond a unilateral facial nerve, initial brain imaging is not indicated.
Neither brain MRI nor intracranial magnetic resonance angiography is indicated in this patient. Sudden painless paralysis of a unilateral facial nerve is unlikely to be caused by aneurysmal compression or bleeding. These imaging tests might be appropriate if the patient had a thunderclap headache (maximum onset of pain within minutes of symptom onset), a slow progressive course of facial weakness, or progressive myoclonic hemifacial spasms.
The effectiveness of oral antiviral therapy, such as valacyclovir, in the treatment of Bell palsy is controversial. Currently, no available evidence suggests that adding antiviral therapy improves prognosis.

**Bibliography**

Glass GE, Tzafetta K. Bell's palsy: a summary of current evidence and referral algorithm. Fam Pract. 2014;31:631-42. PMID: 25208543 doi:10.1093/fampra/cmu058

This content was last updated in August 2018.