
### Correct Answer: B) Carbamazepine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat trigeminal neuralgia.

#### **Key Point:** Carbamazepine is the treatment of choice for trigeminal neuralgia; management with this agent requires serum monitoring for hyponatremia and agranulocytosis.

The patient should receive carbamazepine. She has paroxysmal facial pain typical of trigeminal neuralgia. Episodes of this disorder consist of sharp or shock-like pain and have a duration of less than 1 second to 120 seconds, with variable frequency. The maxillary and mandibular branches of the trigeminal nerve (cranial nerve V) are affected in 95% of affected patients. Attacks may be spontaneous or triggered by innocuous stimuli. Autonomic features are rare. Incidence increases with advanced age. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is present in 5% of patients with trigeminal neuralgia and is a common cause in patients younger than 50 years. Demyelinating plaques in the pontine entry of the trigeminal root may be seen. Carbamazepine is the treatment of choice; management with this agent requires serum monitoring for hyponatremia and agranulocytosis.
Acetazolamide is indicated for idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH). Headaches associated with this condition are phenotypically similar to tension-type headache or migraine and not to the pain of neuralgia. This patient lacks both significant risk factors for and the papilledema typical of IIH. Her afferent pupillary defect is secondary to MS.
Indomethacin is the preferred treatment for chronic paroxysmal hemicrania (CPH). As with the other trigeminal autonomic cephalalgias, CPH pain mainly involves the ophthalmic branch of the trigeminal nerve, resulting in pain localized to the orbital, supraorbital, or temporal regions. Episodes of CPH last 2 to 30 minutes and recur as many as 40 times per day. Ipsilateral cranial autonomic features are present. Attacks may be precipitated by cervical spine rotation or compression, but facial stimulation is not provocative. Response to indomethacin is absolute.
Lamotrigine is the treatment of choice for short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache attacks with conjunctival injection and tearing (SUNCT), although this type of headache is largely refractory to medical management. Similarly to trigeminal neuralgia, episodes last 1 to 600 seconds and may recur more than 100 times daily. Unlike trigeminal neuralgia, attacks of SUNCT involve the ophthalmic branch of the trigeminal nerve and include the ipsilateral autonomic features of conjunctival injection and tearing.

**Bibliography**

Maarbjerg S, Gozalov A, Olesen J, Bendtsen L. Trigeminal neuralgia—a prospective systematic study of clinical characteristics in 158 patients. Headache. 2014 Nov-Dec;54(10):1574-82. PMID: 25231219 doi: 10.1111/head.12441

This content was last updated in August 2018.