
### Correct Answer: D) Plasma exchange therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat glucocorticoid-refractory idiopathic transverse myelitis.

#### **Key Point:** In a patient with signs and symptoms of idiopathic transverse myelitis in whom first-line treatment with a high-dose intravenous glucocorticoid has been ineffective, plasma exchange therapy is the most appropriate next step in treatment.

This patient is exhibiting signs and symptoms consistent with idiopathic transverse myelitis (TM). Idiopathic TM is a monophasic inflammatory and demyelinating myelopathy affecting a portion of the spinal cord. Affected patients frequently experience a subacute onset of weakness, sensory changes, and bowel or bladder dysfunction, which is sometimes preceded by back pain or a thoracic banding sensation. Diagnostic criteria for idiopathic TM require the presence of clinical features of the syndrome, evidence of inflammation (either leukocytosis in the cerebrospinal fluid or contrast enhancement on MRI), and exclusion of other potential causes. First-line treatment for this disorder is administration of high-dose intravenous glucocorticoids. A 5-day course of high-dose methylprednisolone, however, had no beneficial effect on this patient's symptoms. The most appropriate next step is plasma exchange therapy, which has been shown to improve outcomes in patients with idiopathic transverse myelitis that is refractory to glucocorticoids.
The symptoms experienced by this patient are unlikely to be the result of tuberculosis. Tuberculosis can cause central nervous system infection and inflammation, but when it does, it most often involves the meninges, which are not affected in this patient, and spinal fluid analysis frequently shows a low glucose level and a mononuclear pleocytosis. The acute onset of symptoms also is highly unusual for tuberculosis.
Although this patient will benefit from inpatient rehabilitation, it should be delayed until all of the other treatment options have been exhausted. Transfer to rehabilitation without initiation of plasma exchange would not provide the patient with the best chance for recovery.
Intravenous immune globulin therapy has not been shown to provide benefit in glucocorticoid-refractory transverse myelitis and thus would be inappropriate treatment for this patient.

**Bibliography**

Scott TF, Frohman EM, De Seze J, Gronseth GS, Weinshenker BG; Therapeutics and Technology Assessment Subcommittee of American Academy of Neurology. Evidence-based guideline: clinical evaluation and treatment of transverse myelitis: report of the therapeutics and technology assessment subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology. Neurology. 2011;77:2128-34. PMID: 22156988 doi:10.1212/WNL.0b013e31823dc535

This content was last updated in August 2018.