
### Correct Answer: D) Measure serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D level 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate for vitamin D deficiency in patients with multiple sclerosis.

#### **Key Point:** Adjuvant therapy with vitamin D supplementation in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis provides additional disease activity control.

This patient's serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D level should be measured to determine if she has vitamin D deficiency. The response to disease-modifying therapy is monitored with clinical evaluation and often with periodic MRI studies. Although she is clinically stable, the MRI shows possible new disease activity. Accumulating evidence suggests that disease activity in multiple sclerosis (MS) is highly correlated with serum vitamin D levels, with less frequent relapses and MRI lesion development in patients with high vitamin D levels. Furthermore, administration of vitamin D supplementation has now been shown to provide additional control of disease activity, with a recent trial finding less MRI activity in patients taking interferon plus vitamin D versus interferon alone. This patient is not taking any vitamin D supplementation, which may make her more prone to exacerbations. Supplementation would be indicated if she demonstrates deficiency on serologic testing.
The addition of dalfampridine to this patient's regimen would have no benefit at this time. Although this medication has shown efficacy in improving ambulatory function in some patients with MS, it has no immunologic, disease-modifying effect. Because this patient has no ambulation difficulty and is experiencing an inflammatory disease breakthrough, addition of dalfampridine would be an inappropriate choice.
Glatiramer acetate is a copolymer of four amino acids that, among other mechanisms of action, may bind major histocompatibility complex molecules and induce a shift in the immune response away from autoimmunity. Glatiramer acetate also has been shown to reduce the relapse rate by approximately one third compared with placebo and appears equivalent to the beta interferons in head-to-head studies. However, clinical trial evidence has shown that combining glatiramer acetate with an interferon beta provides no added benefit to what either drug achieves alone.
Lumbar puncture to obtain cerebrospinal fluid for JC virus testing is not appropriate. Reactivation of the JC virus in the brain can result in progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), an adverse effect of some immunosuppressive medications and chemotherapy. PML, however, is not a known adverse effect of the interferon beta preparations, and the changes on this patient's MRI are not indicative of PML. Thus, performance of this invasive test is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Soilu-Hänninen M, Aivo J, Lindström BM, Elovaara I, Sumelahti ML, Färkkilä M, et al. A randomised, double blind, placebo controlled trial with vitamin D3 as an add on treatment to interferon β-1b in patients with multiple sclerosis. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2012;83:565-71. PMID: 22362918 doi:10.1136/jnnp-2011-301876

This content was last updated in August 2018.