
### Correct Answer: B) Outpatient cardiac telemetry 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient who has a cryptogenic stroke for atrial fibrillation.

#### **Key Point:** Evaluation of cryptogenic stroke with prolonged outpatient rhythm monitoring may yield a new diagnosis of atrial fibrillation in almost one third of patients.

This patient should have outpatient cardiac telemetry. She has a cryptogenic infarct with no clear source identified on arterial imaging, no evidence of atrial fibrillation (AF) or other high-risk embolic cause, and a stroke location that is not typical for lacunar infarcts. Accumulating data on patients with cryptogenic stroke indicate that an evaluation for AF with an outpatient rhythm monitor may yield a new diagnosis of AF in almost one third of patients. Given the high risk of recurrent stroke associated with AF, additional outpatient evaluation is warranted. The various options available for monitoring include mobile outpatient cardiac telemetry, 24-hour electrocardiographic monitoring, transtelephonic and event monitors, and implantable subcutaneous devices. Longer monitoring results in a higher diagnostic yield. In one study comparing 30-day monitoring to 24-hour monitoring, atrial fibrillation lasting for at least 30 seconds was found in 16.1% of patients monitored for 30 days vs. 3.2% of patients monitored for 24 hours, and AF lasting for at least 2.5 minutes was found in 9.9% of patients with prolonged monitoring vs. 2.5% of patients with 24-hour monitoring.
The combination of clopidogrel and aspirin is associated in the long term with a higher risk of hemorrhagic complications compared with a single antiplatelet agent only. A 2018 systematic review and meta-analysis showed that dual antiplatelet therapy with clopidogrel and aspirin given within 24 hours after high-risk TIA or minor ischemic stroke and continued for 10 to 21 days reduced subsequent nonfatal stroke risk but had no effect on all-cause mortality. It can be considered in patients who do not have a known cardiac source that requires anticoagulation. Aspirin should be continued following dual antiplatelet therapy for long-term secondary prevention of stroke.
Apixaban and similar anticoagulants have not been shown to be effective for the routine prevention of cryptogenic stroke. Warfarin and aspirin have similar rates of recurrent stroke in patients with noncardioembolic stroke; warfarin is not indicated as first-line therapy for stroke prevention in cryptogenic stroke.
Transesophageal echocardiography is unnecessary because the patient is in sinus rhythm and already has had structural imaging of the valves and chamber sizes, which makes a transesophageal echocardiogram likely to be of low yield. This diagnostic test also is invasive and costly and is of higher yield when used to evaluate for unusual causes of cardiac emboli, such as valvular endocarditis or intracardiac tumors.

**Bibliography**

Kernan WN, Ovbiagele B, Black HR, Bravata DM, Chimowitz MI, Ezekowitz MD, et al; American Heart Association Stroke Council, Council on Cardiovascular and Stroke Nursing, Council on Clinical Cardiology, and Council on Peripheral Vascular Disease. Guidelines for the prevention of stroke in patients with stroke and transient ischemic attack: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke. 2014;45:2160-236. PMID: 24788967 doi:10.1161/STR.0000000000000024

This content was last updated in May 2019.