
### Correct Answer: A) Cerebrospinal fluid analysis 

**Educational Objective:** Identify Alzheimer disease as the cause of mild cognitive impairment.

#### **Key Point:** In a patient with mild cognitive impairment, decreased Aβ42 peptide and increased tau protein and p-tau levels in the cerebrospinal spinal fluid have a greater than 80% sensitivity and specificity in identifying Alzheimer disease as the cause.

Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis is likely to provide the most specific information about whether Alzheimer disease is the cause of this patient's mild cognitive impairment (MCI). This test can measure levels of soluble Aβ42 peptide and soluble tau protein, which can help identify a specific pattern consistent with a diagnosis of Alzheimer disease, namely, decreased Aβ42 and increased tau and p-tau levels. In a patient with MCI, these levels have a greater than 80% sensitivity and specificity in identifying Alzheimer disease as the cause of cognitive symptoms. With the emphasis of clinical trials targeting the earliest stages of Alzheimer disease, the use of CSF biomarkers can assist in the diagnosis and prognosis of the underlying cause of MCI and in identifying patients who could qualify for clinical trials.
Electroencephalography (EEG) detects electrical activity in the brain and is most useful in the diagnosis of epilepsy, although it also can help diagnose sleep disorders, encephalopathy, coma, and brain death. Because EEG provides only nonspecific information about brain function, it is not helpful in detecting the presence of Alzheimer disease.
Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET provides information on the metabolic function of the brain and can help identify patterns of neuronal impairment. However, these findings are not exclusive to Alzheimer disease. Any information FDG PET provides about brain function is similarly nonspecific.
MRI can provide information on hippocampal atrophy and the presence of enlarged ventricles and cerebrovascular disease. However, these features are seen in both Alzheimer disease and other unrelated syndromes. Likewise, the information MRI provides about brain structure and size is not specific to Alzheimer disease.
Serum apolipoprotein-E (ApoE) allele testing provides no useful information for diagnosing cognitive disorders. ApoE is a gene that can indicate a patient's risk for Alzheimer dementia but adds little to the prediction of progression of symptoms from MCI.

**Bibliography**

Blennow K, Zetterberg H. Cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease. J Alzheimers Dis. 2009;18:413-7. PMID: 19661632 doi:10.3233/JAD-2009-1177

This content was last updated in August 2018.