
### Correct Answer: D) No further treatment is necessary 

**Educational Objective:** Treat blood pressure after thrombolysis.

#### **Key Point:** After thrombolytic therapy for acute stroke, antihypertensive treatment is not necessary if blood pressure is less than 180/105 mm Hg and there are no symptoms of intracerebral hemorrhage.

This patient requires no further treatment of his blood pressure at this time. He has had an acute ischemic stroke and was treated appropriately with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (alteplase). His posttreatment blood pressure is less than 180/105 mm Hg, which is less than the guideline threshold for initiating antihypertensive therapy. Given the presence of internal carotid artery stenosis, expansion of the infarct is possible if the blood pressure is significantly lowered. Blood pressure lowering may be appropriate in patients with symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage after thrombolysis, but this diagnosis is unlikely in this patient whose physical examination findings after thrombolysis are stable.
Amlodipine is inappropriate as treatment because this patient's blood pressure does not need to be lowered acutely after thrombolysis. Home antihypertensive agents thus should be held for most patients with acute ischemic stroke for at least 48 hours unless evidence of end-organ damage exists.
Clopidogrel is an antithrombotic agent and thus is contraindicated in this patient who has just received thrombolytic therapy. In patients with a transient ischemic attack or minor stroke, aspirin in combination with clopidogrel for 21 days may reduce the risk of recurrent stroke, although confirmatory trials are required.
Intravenous nitroprusside also is inappropriate treatment in this patient who does not require acute lowering of blood pressure. Additionally, nitroprusside is not the medication of first choice in patients with acute stroke because of its potential to increase intracranial pressure.

**Bibliography**

Powers WJ, Rabinstein AA, Ackerson T, Adeoye OM, Bambakidis NC, Becker K, et al; American Heart Association Stroke Council. 2018 Guidelines for the early management of patients with acute ischemic stroke: a guideline for healthcare professionals from the American Heart Association/American Stroke Association. Stroke. 2018 Mar;49(3):e46-e110. [Epub 2018 Jan 24] PMID: 29367334 doi:10.1161/STR.0000000000000158

This content was last updated in August 2018.