
### Correct Answer: D) Secondary progressive, with progression and activity 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose secondary progressive multiple sclerosis, with progression and activity.

#### **Key Point:** The three core phenotypes of multiple sclerosis can be modified by the presence of activity (clinical relapse or new/enlarging MRI lesion); primary and secondary progressive multiple sclerosis can be further modified as “progressive” if there is ongoing accumulation of neurologic deficits independent of clinical relapses.

This patient's clinical course at this time can best be described as secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (MS), with progression and activity. His initial relapsing event of optic neuritis initially would have been diagnosed as relapsing-remitting MS. However, over the past 3 years, the patient has had a slow progressive decline in multiple neurologic symptoms without any clear exacerbations, which is the hallmark of progression in MS. Given the initial relapsing course followed by at least 2 years of disability progression without relapses, the patient's disease would now be considered secondary progressive. Recent revisions to clinical course descriptions in MS have been made to acknowledge that the clinical course in MS is not static and should be redefined constantly. Furthermore, these revised course descriptions have acknowledged the fact that relapses can occur in patients who otherwise have progressive MS and that MRI changes should be seen as a sign of relapsing activity in MS. In summary, clinical relapses or MRI evidence of new or enlarging lesions define “activity,” whereas the gradual accumulation of neurologic deficits independent of relapses defines “progression.” In light of this patient's recent gradual decline in neurologic function (progression) and MRI changes (activity), his disease status is best described as secondary progressive with progression and activity. If, at a later time, the patient exhibits a pattern of no new neurologic deficits, experiences no relapses, and has no new lesions on MRI, his disease status can then be described as secondary progressive without progression or activity.
The patient's initial symptoms involved an acute demyelinating event (optic neuritis), with signs of disability progression coming later. He is not among the 15% of patients with MS who never experience a relapse but instead have progressive disability accumulation from the time of disease onset; these patients have primary progressive MS. Therefore, it would be inaccurate to describe the current status of this patient's MS as primary progressive.
Although this patient's initial clinical course was relapsing, the progressive decline with absence of improvement in the past 3 years indicates a transition to progressive MS. The clinical course of his MS thus cannot be described as relapsing remitting, with activity.

**Bibliography**

Lublin FD, Reingold SC, Cohen JA, Cutter GR, Sørensen PS, Thompson AJ, et al. Defining the clinical course of multiple sclerosis: the 2013 revisions. Neurology. 2014;83:278-86. PMID: 24871874 doi:10.1212/WNL.0000000000000560

This content was last updated in August 2018.