
### Correct Answer: B) Lamotrigine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat generalized epilepsy in a patient with psychiatric disease.

#### **Key Point:** In a patient with generalized epilepsy and psychiatric disease, lamotrigine is an appropriate medication to use not only because of its effectiveness as treatment for generalized tonic-clonic seizures, but also because of its mood-stabilizing effects.

This patient should receive lamotrigine instead of valproic acid to control his seizures. No single antiepileptic drug (AED) is recommended for the initial treatment of epilepsy. Approximately 50% of patients with this disorder will respond to the first AED administered. Choosing an AED for an individual patient depends on several factors, including his or her epilepsy syndrome, age, sex, and comorbid medical conditions and the drug's adverse-effect profile and cost. Lamotrigine is commonly prescribed in women with childbearing potential and is also a good option for older patients or those who have depression or other mood disorders. This patient has generalized epilepsy that is not controlled with valproic acid. Lamotrigine is the most appropriate medication to use instead, not only because of its effectiveness as treatment for generalized tonic-clonic seizures, but also because of its mood-stabilizing effects. Lamotrigine is FDA approved for maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder, and clinical trials have demonstrated its efficacy in the treatment of depersonalization/derealization disorder.
Ethosuximide is used only to treat absence seizures, not other types of generalized seizures. Therefore, the medication is inappropriate for this patient with tonic-clonic seizures.
Although often used as a first-line treatment of generalized epilepsy, levetiracetam can worsen depression and should be avoided in this patient who has depression with psychotic features.
Topiramate also is not appropriate for this patient because it can cause or worsen psychosis.

**Bibliography**

Thigpen J, Miller SE, Pond BB. Behavioral side effects of antiepileptic drugs. US Pharm. 2013;38(11):HS15-HS20.

This content was last updated in August 2018.