
### Correct Answer: D) Myoclonus 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose myoclonus.

#### **Key Point:** Posthypoxic myoclonus, which occurs in patients with a history of hypoxic brain injury, is characterized by prominent action-induced myoclonus that impairs ambulation because of a combination of positive (rapid jerky movements) and negative (lapses in muscle tone) myoclonus.

This patient's clinical history and clinical examination findings are most consistent with myoclonus. Myoclonus consists of rapid, nonsuppressible, shock-like, jerky movements that can result from metabolic, endocrine, toxic, infectious, epileptic, autoimmune, and other causes. Posthypoxic myoclonus (Lance-Adams syndrome) occurs in patients with a history of hypoxic brain injury (suggested in this patient by his previous cardiopulmonary arrest) and is characterized by prominent action-induced myoclonus that impairs ambulation because of a combination of positive (rapid jerky movements) and negative (lapses in muscle tone) myoclonus. Other examples of negative myoclonus include hiccups and asterixis.
Ataxia is associated with wide-based gait, incoordination, and dysmetria. However, rapid shock-like movements and brief lapses of muscle tone are not features of ataxia. Ataxia is a hallmark of cerebellar damage and can be seen in posthypoxic settings.
Chorea consists of random, nonrepetitive, flowing, dance-like movements, unlike the abnormal movements exhibited by this patient. Choreiform movements are not rapid or shock-like.
Dystonia involves sustained muscle contractions leading to stereotyped and directional twisting and posturing movements that are absent in this patient.
An orthostatic tremor is a high-frequency, rhythmic tremor that emerges in the legs only during standing and resolves with sitting or ambulation. This does not describe the patient's movements, which are nonrhythmic and jerky.

**Bibliography**

Mills K, Mari Z. An update and review of the treatment of myoclonus. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep. 2015;15:512. PMID: 25398378 doi:10.1007/s11910-014-0512-2

This content was last updated in August 2018.