
### Correct Answer: D) Polysomnography 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient who has minor cognitive difficulties and daytime sleepiness with polysomnography.

#### **Key Point:** Polysomnography should be performed in a patient with minor symptoms of cognitive impairment and self-reported daytime sleepiness who scores normally on cognitive and depression assessments.

This patient should have polysomnography. He has minor symptoms of cognitive impairment, such as memory lapses and calculation difficulties at work. To exclude a slowly progressive dementia and identify any potentially reversible causes of his symptoms, the patient's examination should consist of a neurologic examination, including a cognitive screening evaluation, and evaluation for depression, sleep disorders, alcohol abuse, and family history of dementia. The patient does not use alcohol and has no family history of dementia. His score on the Montreal Cognitive Assessment is borderline abnormal, which would be unlikely if Alzheimer disease or another progressive dementia were the cause of his symptoms, and several depression scales provide no evidence of depression. Because depression and a primary neurodegenerative disorder are unlikely in this patient, additional diagnostic testing is necessary. His hypertension, obesity, and self-reported daytime sleepiness are consistent with a diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Other neuropsychiatric symptoms of OSA include mood alterations, difficulty concentrating, and problems completing tasks at school or the workplace. Objective testing is required for the diagnosis of OSA.
The traditional gold standard of in-laboratory, technician-attended polysomnography is being replaced by portable technology designed for use by the unaccompanied patient and is referred to as out-of-center sleep testing (OCST). This portable testing is typically limited to measurement of oronasal airflow, chest wall excursion, body position, and pulse oximetry, whereas in-laboratory polysomnography also measures brain waves (electroencephalography), muscle activity (electromyography), and heart rhythm (electrocardiography) and occurs in the presence of a technician in case of technical difficulties. OCST performs comparably to polysomnography in patients without comorbid cardiopulmonary disease who have a high pretest probability of moderate to severe OSA.
Given the patient's normal findings on neurologic examination and relatively minor neurologic symptoms, cerebrospinal fluid analysis, fluorodeoxyglucose PET scanning, and mild structural brain imaging with MRI are likely to be of low yield.

**Bibliography**

Gagnon K, Baril AA, Gagnon JF, Fortin M, Décary A, Lafond C, et al. Cognitive impairment in obstructive sleep apnea. Pathol Biol (Paris). 2014;62:233-40. PMID: 25070768 doi:10.1016/j.patbio.2014.05.015

This content was last updated in August 2018.