
### Correct Answer: A) Cognitive rehabilitation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat cognitive dysfunction in multiple sclerosis.

#### **Key Point:** Cognitive rehabilitation approaches, such as the development of accommodative strategies and training with challenging cognitive tasks, have been shown to improve symptoms of cognitive deficits in patients with multiple sclerosis.

This patient should be referred for cognitive rehabilitation therapy. Cognitive dysfunction occurs in at least 50% of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). The most common deficits involve short-term memory, processing speed, and executive function. Cognitive disability has a significant effect on the employability of patients with MS and can reduce their overall quality of life. To this point, however, no pharmaceutical agent has been shown to improve these symptoms in patients with MS. In contrast, cognitive rehabilitation approaches, such as the development of accommodative strategies and training with challenging cognitive tasks, have shown this benefit and should be pursued in this patient.
Depression also is a common symptom in patients with MS, and the suicide rate is elevated in these patients compared with patients who have depression for other reasons. The depression that occurs in MS is likely multifactorial, involving the emotional response to dealing with a chronic disease, the consequences of demyelinating lesions and inflammatory cytokines, and the adverse effects of treatments (such as the interferon beta formulations). Clinicians should be vigilant for signs of depression and have a low threshold for initiating antidepressants and offering referrals to psychiatry. This patient has not had any severe worsening of depression. Therefore, increasing the dosage of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluoxetine is unlikely to improve any cognitive deficits.
In trials of their effectiveness in improving cognitive deficits in MS, donepezil, memantine, and methylphenidate have shown no benefit. Donepezil has shown modest benefits in cognitive performance in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer disease, and memantine has shown a similar benefit in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer disease. Methylphenidate is a central nervous system stimulant used in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and narcolepsy.

**Bibliography**

Benedict RH, Zivadinov R. Risk factors for and management of cognitive dysfunction in multiple sclerosis. Nat Rev Neurol. 2011;7:332-42. PMID: 21556031 doi:10.1038/nrneurol.2011.61

This content was last updated in August 2018.