### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Agoraphobia** - Agoraphobia is an anxiety disorder characterized by an inordinate fear or anxiety in situations that are perceived as difficult to leave or situations in which it might be difficult to seek help. These situations can trigger symptoms of a panic attack, such as dyspnea, chest tightness, palpitations, dizziness, diaphoresis, and a feeling of impending doom. Individuals with agoraphobia actively avoid situations that might trigger these symptoms. This condition typically develops before 35 years of age, is more common among women, and has a strong hereditary component. Diagnosis requires the presence of symptoms over a period of ≥ 6 months in ≥ 2 of the following settings: areas outside the home when alone (e.g., going for a walk), open spaces (e.g., bridges, parking lots), enclosed spaces (e.g., stores, theaters), lines or crowds, and public transportation; the symptoms must not be explained by other related conditions (e.g., social anxiety disorder). First-line treatment of agoraphobia includes cognitive behavioral therapy and SSRIs.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Generalized anxiety disorder** - Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is characterized by multiple somatic symptoms over a period of ≥ 6 months. These symptoms include restlessness, irritability, fatigue, impaired concentration, insomnia, and muscle tension, and they can wax and wane in severity but are typically persistent. GAD does not manifest with symptoms of panic attacks (e.g., dyspnea, chest tightness, palpitations, dizziness, diaphoresis, and a feeling of impending doom), which are seen here. Moreover, this condition is not caused by specific, identifiable triggers.

**C - Social anxiety disorder** - Social anxiety disorder is characterized by episodes of distressing symptoms over a period of ≥ 6 months and affected individuals might avoid leaving their home. The distressing symptoms arise from a fear of being viewed negatively by others and typically occur during social interactions (e.g., meeting new people), when performing in front of others (e.g., public speaking), and/or when feeling observed (e.g., using public restrooms, eating or drinking in public). This patient's symptoms, however, are triggered when using public transportation or when in enclosed spaces, crowded places, and open spaces. Moreover, symptoms of social anxiety disorder are not alleviated when patients are accompanied by an attachment figure, whereas this patient's symptoms improve when he is accompanied by his sister.

**D - Somatic symptom disorder** - Somatic symptom disorder is characterized by one or more distressing symptoms (e.g., abdominal pain, fatigue) over a period of ≥ 6 months that cannot be explained by an organic medical condition. Affected individuals may have significant concerns about their symptoms, resulting in maladaptive behaviors. A characteristic feature of this condition is that at least one of the symptoms reported by the patient is continuous; this patient's symptoms occur episodically.

**E - Panic disorder** - Panic disorder is characterized by symptoms of panic attacks (e.g., dyspnea, chest tightness, palpitations, dizziness, diaphoresis, and a feeling of impending doom) and affected individuals may have significant concerns about these symptoms, resulting in maladaptive behaviors. This patient's specific triggers (open spaces, enclosed places, crowds, and public transportation), however, are better explained by a different condition.

**F - Dependent personality disorder** - Individuals with dependent personality disorder are reliant on an attachment figure for everyday decisions and reassurance. They often feel helpless when left alone and the measures employed to maintain the relationship are typically appeasing and submissive behaviors, which are not seen here. In addition, symptoms of panic attacks, (e.g., dyspnea, chest tightness, palpitations, dizziness, diaphoresis, and a feeling of impending doom), which are seen in this patient, are not characteristic of dependent personality disorder.

**G - Avoidant personality disorder** - Individuals with avoidant personality disorder typically isolate themselves, but they do so out of feelings of inadequacy and/or a fear of criticism rather than anxiety resulting from situations perceived as difficult to leave. Furthermore, avoidant personality disorder is not characterized by symptoms of panic attacks (dyspnea, chest tightness, palpitations, dizziness, diaphoresis, and a feeling of impending doom).

**H - Separation anxiety disorder** - Separation anxiety disorder is characterized by distressing symptoms due to fear of separation from home or from a person to whom the patient is attached, and affected individuals may refuse to leave home unaccompanied. These symptoms can last for ≥ 6 months. The cause of distressing symptoms in a patient with separation anxiety disorder is a fear of death or harm befalling the attachment figure. This patient, however, has a fear of being alone when the distressing symptoms occur.

