### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Obtain TSH, β-hCG, and serum creatinine concentration** - Lithium is a first-line drug for the treatment of an acute manic episode in bipolar disorder. However, its use is limited by numerous adverse effects: lithium may induce or worsen pre-existing hypothyroidism by blocking the production and release of L-thyroxine; it is a teratogen (increased risk of congenital heart defects like Ebstein anomaly); it may cause lithium nephropathy or worsen chronic kidney disease. Therefore, a pregnancy should be ruled out, and kidney and thyroid function should be assessed prior to beginning treatment.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Obtain CBC, liver function studies, and β-hCG** - Because agranulocytosis and increased serum transaminase are side effects of valproate, blood tests should be done regularly during pharmacotherapy. Valproate is also highly teratogenic; pregnancy should be ruled out prior to initiating treatment. Given this patient's history of valproate-induced hepatotoxicity after treatment of absence seizures, lithium, another first-line drug for acute manic episodes of bipolar disorder should be considered. Lithium is metabolized and excreted renally, meaning liver function tests would not be required. Beta-HCG should be considered, though, since its use during pregnancy is associated with increased rates of congenital heart defects (especially Ebstein anomaly).

**B - Assess for suicidal ideation and obtain echocardiography** - Assessing suicidal ideation is an important part of every psychiatric assessment. However, suicidal ideation is rarely seen during acute manic episodes in bipolar disorder. In contrast, it is a possible clinical feature in depressive episodes. In bipolar patients, lithium helps to prevent relapses and reduces the risk of suicide in depressive episodes. Lithium and some of the other first-line drugs for bipolar disorder may have cardiologic side effects (e.g., prolonged QT intervals, arrhythmias). ECG before and during treatment is recommended, but echocardiography is not routinely performed prior to initiating treatment.

**D - Perform arterial blood gas analysis and slit lamp examination** - Respiratory depression and closed-angle glaucoma are side effects of benzodiazepines. ABG analysis and ophthalmologic examination are performed in patients on benzodiazepines who show symptoms of overdose or reduced vision respectively. These tests are not indicated prior to starting treatment. Furthermore, long-acting benzodiazepines are generally given to support initial medical therapy of acute manic episode in bipolar disorder, but should not be given over a long period due to the high risk of dependence.

**E - Perform urine drug testing and begin cognitive behavior therapy** - Cognitive behavior therapy is an important component of management in bipolar disorder. A combination of medication and psychotherapy helps prevent new mood episodes in maintenance therapy and has the strongest impact on depressive episodes. However, this patient shows acute manic symptoms, so psychotherapy is difficult to execute in the current situation. Stabilization of the disturbed affect and mood via pharmacotherapy often needs to be the first step of a combined treatment. Although urine drug testing should be considered in patients presenting with manic and/or psychotic symptoms, this patient has no history of illicit drug use.

**F - Obtain BMI, HbA1c, lipid levels, and prolactin levels** - Metabolic side effects, such as weight gain, hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia, and hyperprolactinemia are common among second-generation antipsychotics, a therapeutic option for monotherapy in acute manic episodes. BMI should be recorded before and during therapy with antipsychotics. However, lipid studies, hemoglobin A1c, and serum prolactin levels are most importantly obtained during treatment. Furthermore, given that this patient is not psychotic and requires maintenance therapy, another drug would be more appropriate.

