### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Congestive heart failure** - Congestive heart failure from dilated cardiomyopathy is the most common cause of death in patients with Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD). The in-frame deletion affecting the dystrophin gene causes a partially functional dystrophin protein, which leads to muscle tissue necrosis and subsequent cardiac fibrosis. Although patients with BMD generally have less severe musculoskeletal symptoms with a slower disease progression than patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), cardiac involvement is more common and is a considerable cause of morbidity.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Dementia** - Patients with progressive muscular dystrophies (e.g., BMD, Duchenne muscular dystrophy) have an increased risk of mild cognitive impairment and certain psychiatric conditions (e.g., obsessive-compulsive disorder, autism spectrum disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder). Dementia most commonly manifests in old age; individuals with BMD have a life expectancy of 40–50 years, so dementia is not a common cause of death in this condition.

**C - Urosepsis** - Individuals with BMD have a slightly increased risk of urinary tract infection, which can lead to urosepsis, due to the increased prevalence of urological abnormalities (e.g., urinary incontinence, detrusor overactivity, voiding dysfunction). However, urosepsis is not the most common cause of death in individuals with BMD.

**D - Pulmonary embolism** - Patients with BMD are at increased risk of immobilization due to potential loss of ambulation, which is a risk factor for venous thromboembolism (e.g., deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism). However, pulmonary embolism is not the most common cause of death in patients with BMD.

**E - Coronary artery disease** - Coronary artery disease (CAD) is one of the leading causes of death in the United States. However, CAD is not the most common cause of death in patients with BMD. Muscular dystrophies affect the dystrophin protein, which is found in muscle cells rather than in vascular cells.

