### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Cervical rib** - A cervical rib is a common cause of thoracic outlet syndrome, which occurs because of compression of the lower trunk of the brachial plexus (derived from the C8–T1 nerve roots) and/or subclavian vessels in the area of the scalene triangle. Compression of the lower trunk of the brachial plexus can cause neuropathic pain, paresthesias, and sensory loss in the C8 and T1 dermatomes (i.e., 4th and 5th fingers, medial aspect of the arm), as seen here, and possibly weakness of the intrinsic muscles of the hand. The symptoms in the case of a cervical rib are usually exacerbated by overhead arm elevation. Compression of the subclavian vessels is less common; subclavian vein compression results in swelling of the arm, and subclavian artery compression can cause acute or chronic limb ischemia and, possibly, subclavian steal syndrome. A positive Adson test, as seen here, is suggestive of a cervical rib. Other common causes of thoracic outlet syndrome are Pancoast tumor, muscular anomalies (e.g., supernumerary scalene muscles, neck muscle hypertrophy), and trauma (e.g., clavicle fracture).

Image File: 1001-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cebbffe9c998.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Carpal tunnel syndrome** - Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) results in median nerve compression and often presents with paresthesia of the fingers, which can worsen with prolonged overhead hand elevation (positive hand elevation test). However, this paresthesia would be present in the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd digits rather than the 4th and 5th digits. Moreover, this patient's arm pain and the positive Adson test are not consistent with CTS.

Image File: 1001-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cab5e55410a6.jpg

**C - Polymyositis** - Patients with polymyositis have progressive symmetric proximal muscle weakness and report difficulty reaching for objects above their head rather than worsening pain and paresthesia when performing this action, as seen here. Moreover, this patient's positive Adson test is not consistent with polymyositis.

**D - Upper trunk compression** - Compression of the upper trunk of the brachial plexus (Erb palsy) can also result in pain and paresthesia. However, the paresthesia would occur in the lateral aspects of the arm, forearm, and/or hand (C5 and C6 dermatomes), not the 4th and 5th (medial) digits. In addition, patients with Erb palsy typically present with an internally rotated and adducted arm, extended forearm, and a flexed wrist (“waiter's tip posture”), all of which are absent in this patient.

Image File: 1001-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5c98e49ba809e.jpg

**E - Cervical disc protrusion** - Protrusion of the C7/T1 intervertebral disc can compress the C8 spinal root and cause pain and paresthesia in the 4th and 5th digits (C8 dermatome). However, in the case of cervical spinal root compression (radiculopathy), patients usually have neck pain and the paresthesia is relieved by overhead arm elevation, unlike the exacerbation experienced in this patient reaching above the head. Parasthesias in cervical disc protrusion are instead exacerbated by extending the neck to the side and applying downward pressure to the head (Spurling maneuver). Moreover, a positive Adson test is not consistent with a cervical disc protrusion.

Image File: 1001-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_597614e89fd28.jpg

