### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Indomethacin therapy** - Seropositive polyarticular JIA is a rare type of JIA associated with an aggressive disease course and a high risk of progressive joint destruction. Prompt management is essential for preserving joint functionality in affected individuals and typically includes a combination of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). NSAIDs (e.g., indomethacin) provide symptomatic relief of joint pain and stiffness, while DMARDs (e.g., methotrexate) help prevent joint destruction. Patients who fail to respond to DMARD therapy may require treatment with biologic agents (e.g., etanercept, adalimumab).

Image File: 1003-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f22d557a08f2.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Arthrocentesis of the knees** - Arthrocentesis of the knees with synovial fluid analysis is indicated in patients with suspected septic arthritis, which can manifest with joint pain and restricted range of motion. However, septic arthritis involves one rather than multiple joints, has an acute rather than insidious onset, and typically manifests with fever. In addition, positive RF and rheumatoid nodules are not characteristic of septic arthritis. This patient has seropositive polyarticular JIA, for which arthrocentesis is not indicated.

**C - Anti-dsDNA antibody assay** - An anti-dsDNA antibody assay can be used for the diagnosis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), which manifests with symmetrical polyarthritis and elevated ESR. However, patients with SLE typically also present with other characteristic symptoms such as fever, fatigue, and a malar rash. In addition, rheumatoid nodules and positive RF are not characteristic of SLE. This patient has seropositive polyarticular JIA, which is not associated with an increase in anti-dsDNA antibodies.

**D - Stool cultures** - Stool cultures can be used in the workup of reactive arthritis, which commonly occurs following an episode of bacterial infection (e.g., gastroenteritis). However, reactive arthritis typically has an acute (1–4 weeks after infection) rather than insidious onset (4 months after infection), and manifests with asymmetric migratory oligoarthritis, rather than symmetric polyarthritis. In addition, positive RF and rheumatoid nodules are not characteristic of reactive arthritis. This patient has seropositive polyarticular JIA, which requires a different intervention.

**E - Prednisone therapy** - Systemic glucocorticoids (e.g., prednisone) may be considered for the treatment of severe systemic JIA, which can manifest with polyarthritis and elevated ESR. However, systemic JIA typically manifests with constitutional symptoms such as fever, salmon-pink rash, and serositis, none of which are seen in this patient. Moreover, positive RF and rheumatoid nodules are not characteristic of systemic JIA. This patient has seropositive polyarticular JIA, for which a short course of systemic glucocorticoids may be considered as second-line therapy if mobility is significantly impaired. Nevertheless, systemic glucocorticoids are generally avoided in children because of their numerous side effects, which include growth impairment and osteoporosis.

