### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Avascular necrosis of the femoral heads** - Avascular necrosis of the femoral head manifests with limited range of motion in the hip joint and uni- or bilateral groin pain that worsens with movement or weight-bearing. Some patients also experience thigh or buttock pain, nocturnal pain, pain at rest, and/or pain in other involved joints (e.g., knees or shoulders). X-rays are often normal in the early stages of avascular necrosis of the femoral heads, in which case an MRI should be obtained to establish the diagnosis. Typical x-ray findings (on frog-leg and lateral views) include increased femoral head density, sclerosis, and cysts, as well as subchondral lucency (crescent sign), which indicates a subchondral fracture.

The disease often progresses quickly in adults and most patients require surgical management (e.g., core decompression, bone grafting, total hip arthroplasty) to maintain hip mobility and relieve pain. Supportive care (e.g., analgesia, crutches/walker, regular follow-up) can be considered for asymptomatic patients in whom only a small part of the femoral head (< 15%) is affected.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Osteomyelitis of the femoral heads** - Osteomyelitis can develop from the hematogenous spread of bacteria (e.g., due to rhinosinusitis), and this patient's immunosuppression resulting from lupus treatment (prednisone and hydroxychloroquine) is a risk factor for osteomyelitis. However, this infection usually manifests with systemic (e.g., fever, tachycardia, malaise) as well as local (e.g., erythema, warmth) signs of infection in addition to pain. Moreover, x-ray of the affected bone usually shows soft tissue swelling, osteopenia, and a periosteal reaction rather than subchondral lucency, increased bone density, and articular surface irregularity. Finally, the concurrent development of osteomyelitis in both femoral heads is highly unlikely.

**B - Lupus arthritis** - Lupus arthritis commonly manifests with symmetric polyarticular pain involving the knees, carpal joints, and finger joints. Hip involvement is uncommon. In addition, arthritic pain is usually migratory (improving in one joint within 24 hours and subsequently developing in another joint) and x-ray of the affected joint typically shows soft tissue swelling and periarticular osteoporosis, not subchondral lucency. Moreover, this patient has responded to therapy and shows no other signs of an acute systemic lupus erythematosus flare (e.g., fever, active rash).

**C - Osteoarthritis of the hip joints** - Osteoarthritis of the hip joints can manifest with bilateral limited range of motion and groin pain that worsens during activity. However, x-ray findings consistent with osteoarthritis include osteophytes, subchondral cysts, and subchondral sclerosis, not subchondral lucency. Moreover, osteoarthritis is most commonly seen in adults aged 50–60 years.

Image File: 1004-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_52efd4f5065e6.jpg

**E - Femoral head stress fractures** - Femoral head stress fractures can manifest with groin pain, but they are extremely uncommon. X-rays of stress fractures are typically normal during the first 3–4 weeks. After this time, x-rays show a periosteal reaction or changes in bone density, not articular surface irregularity.

