### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Patellofemoral pain syndrome** - Patellofemoral pain syndrome is one of the most common causes of anterior knee pain, especially in young, female athletes. This syndrome is characterized by retropatellar or peripatellar pain that worsens with activity (e.g., ascending and descending stairs) or after a period of prolonged sitting, as seen in this patient. The etiology is not definitively known but is thought to be caused by multiple factors, including overuse and malalignment of the knee joint.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Medial collateral ligament injury** - Medial collateral ligament injury is common among basketball players and can cause knee pain. However, this injury typically causes tenderness on the medial joint line of the knee, as opposed to pain of the anterior knee, as seen in this patient, as well as knee swelling and medial joint laxity on examination.

**C - Osgood-Schlatter disease** - Osgood-Schlatter disease can cause anterior knee pain that worsens with activity. However, this condition typically develops in a younger population (9–14 years of age) and is more common among boys (especially boys who recently experienced a growth spurt). In addition, Osgood-Schlatter disease usually causes proximal tibial swelling. Moreover, the pain caused by this condition is typically reproducible with extension against resistance, not with anterior patellar pressure.

**D - Septic arthritis** - Septic arthritis can cause knee pain and occur following an episode of genitourinary infection if there is a hematogenous spread of the infection. However, the knee pain caused by septic arthritis is typically severe and accompanied by swelling, erythema, and fever. In addition, only a few of the pathogens that cause genitourinary infections are known to spread hematogenously to the joints (e.g., N. gonorrhea, E. coli, P. aeruginosa). This patient was treated for a chlamydial infection.

**E - Iliotibial band syndrome** - Iliotibial band syndrome is a common cause of knee pain among athletes, especially those who run frequently. However, the pain caused by this syndrome is typically located on the lateral aspect of the knee near the lateral femoral condyle (the insertion site of the iliotibial band). In addition, the pain does not worsen with prolonged sitting but tends to be worse at the beginning and throughout exercise. The diagnosis is confirmed if the pain experienced during exercise can be reproduced by exerting constant pressure on the lateral femoral condyle while passively flexing the knee.

**F - Anterior cruciate ligament injury** - Anterior cruciate ligament injury is common among basketball players and can cause knee pain. This injury is typically associated with an initial popping sound that is followed by knee instability. Although this patient recalls a history of minor trauma to the knee in the past, she neither felt a popping sensation nor any knee instability then or in this present episode.

**G - Reactive arthritis** - Reactive arthritis can develop 1–4 weeks after a chlamydial infection and cause joint pain. However, this condition typically manifests with acute polyarthritis that is asymmetric and migratory in nature. In addition, this patient's knee pain worsens with sitting and is exacerbated by anterior patellar pressure; these findings are not typical features of reactive arthritis.

**H - Patellar tendinitis** - Patellar tendinitis is a common cause of knee pain among young athletes, especially those involved in sports that require frequent jumping (e.g., volleyball, basketball). The pain caused by this condition is typically located on the anterior aspect of the knee and worsens with prolonged sitting and ascending and descending stairs. However, the pain is usually localized to the inferior aspect of the knee cap or the tibial tuberosity (where the patellar tendon attaches to the tibia). In addition, pressure on the knee cap during quadriceps activation does not typically recreate the pain.

