### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Serum TSH levels** - This patient presents with typical symptoms of hypothyroidism, including weight gain, dry skin, constipation, and myopathy. In patients with hypothyroidism, a shortage of thyroid hormone leads to decreased metabolic function (↓ protein turnover and ↓ carbohydrate metabolism), which often manifests in the muscles. Muscle pain caused by exertion, as seen in this patient, is a typical feature of impaired carbohydrate metabolism. Hypothyroid myopathy typically presents with slowed contraction and delayed relaxation of muscles. The best initial step here is to determine TSH levels and FT4 levels to confirm the suspected diagnosis.

Image File: 1008-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e8c835de6be5.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Genetic testing** - Genetic testing is indicated in patients with suspected hereditary muscle disorders, such as myotonic dystrophies, which may also present with elevated creatine kinase levels, proximal muscle weakness, and muscle pain. However, this patient lacks other typical findings of myotonic dystrophies such as cataracts, arrhythmias, and cognitive impairment. Moreover, the weight gain and dry skin in this patient make another diagnosis more likely.

**C - Acetylcholine receptor antibody testing** - AChR antibody testing is indicated in patients with suspected myasthenia gravis (MG), which can also present with proximal muscle weakness that worsens with exercise. However, this patient lacks other typical findings of MG such as eye muscle weakness causing ptosis, diplopia, and blurred vision, or bulbar muscle weakness, which causes slurred speech and difficulty chewing and/or swallowing. Moreover, the weight gain, dry skin, and markedly elevated creatine kinase levels in this patient make another diagnosis more likely.

**D - Serum potassium levels** - Hypokalemia can present with features similar to those seen in this patient, including proximal muscle weakness, constipation, and headaches. However, this patient lacks other typical findings of hypokalemia (or hyperkalemia) such as cardiac arrhythmias and nausea. Moreover, neither hypokalemia nor hyperkalemia would typically cause weight gain, and markedly elevated creatine kinase levels.

**E - Needle electromyography** - Needle electromyography is indicated in patients with suspected inflammatory myopathies (i.e., polymyositis, dermatomyositis), which can also present with dry skin, elevated creatine kinase levels, and proximal muscle weakness. However, this patient lacks other typical findings of inflammatory myopathies, such as dysphagia (present in ∼ 30% of patients) and cutaneous manifestations (e.g., gottron papules) in the case of dermatomyositis. Moreover, the weight gain in this patient makes another diagnosis more likely.

**F - Anti-voltage-gated calcium channel antibody testing** - Testing for anti-voltage-gated calcium channel (VGCC) antibodies is indicated in patients with suspected Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS), which can also present with proximal muscle weakness, reduced or absent reflexes, and constipation, as seen here. However, LEMS typically occurs in conjunction with an underlying malignancy (small cell lung cancer in two-thirds of LEMS cases). Moreover, the weight gain, dry skin, and markedly elevated creatine kinase levels in this patient make another diagnosis more likely.

**G - Temporal artery biopsy** - A temporal artery biopsy is indicated in patients with suspected giant cell arteritis (GCA), which typically presents with pulse-synchronous, throbbing, dull headaches. Polymyalgia rheumatica is an inflammatory condition that occurs in approximately half of patients with GCA (usually women). It typically presents with proximal muscle pain and stiffness, which is seen here. However, it fails to explain this patient's weight gain, muscle weakness, and elevated creatine kinase levels. Moreover, polymyalgia rheumatica is rarely seen in patients < 50 years of age.

