### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Administration of ibuprofen** - This patient presents with symptoms of osteoarthritis. Management is focused on treating pain, as well as maintaining and improving joint mobility and function. While non-pharmacological treatment approaches include physical therapy, exercise, and patient education (e.g., maintaining a healthy weight), NSAIDs such as ibuprofen are recommended as first-line pharmacological treatment for pain relief.

Image File: 1009-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_547454f18ba3a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intra-articular glucocorticoid injections** - Intra-articular glucocorticoid injections are indicated for treatment of acute attacks of both rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. Since this patient has no signs of an acute attack such as a sudden exacerbation of pain and worsened joint mobility, glucocorticoid injections are not indicated.

**C - Administration of infliximab** - Infliximab is a biological agent used in the immunotherapy of therapy-refractory chronic inflammatory diseases (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis). It is not indicated for the treatment of osteoarthritis.

**D - Administration of celecoxib** - Celecoxib is a selective COX-2 inhibitor indicated for analgesic therapy in patients with a history of gastric or gastroduodenal ulcers following treatment with NSAIDs (e.g., ibuprofen). While celecoxib can be used to treat osteoarthritis, it is less effective than other medications, has an increased risk for cardiovascular side effects, and is more expensive. It is therefore only indicated in patients with gastrointestinal complaints.

**E - Administration of oral prednisolone** - Administration of oral prednisolone is indicated to manage acute attacks of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and to bridge the time until inflammatory processes are adequately controlled by DMARDS. While short-term intra-articular glucocorticoid administration may be used in patients with osteoarthritis, systemic administration is not indicated.

Image File: 1009-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_56b9dca43ed5f.jpg

**F - Administration of methotrexate** - Methotrexate is a DMARD that is effective in reducing inflammation, preventing joint destruction, and slowing disease progression in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Since osteoarthritis is not caused by autoimmune-mediated inflammatory processes, DMARDs are not indicated.

