### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Research in a vulnerable population** - Vulnerable populations (e.g., pregnant women, neonates, children, prisoners, individuals with impaired decision-making capacity, economically or educationally disadvantaged individuals) are at increased risk of harm in clinical trials, and certain safeguards are in set in place by the Office of Human Research Protection (OHRP) to protect these populations. Before including pregnant women in clinical trials, preclinical trials in pregnant animals and clinical trials in nonpregnant individuals must have been conducted and data regarding potential risks has to be available. Because the proposed trial was preceded only by an animal trial in pregnant chimps, it would most likely be rejected by an institutional review board. In addition to the animal trial, phase 0, I, II, and III clinical trials in nonpregnant women should be conducted to ensure the safety of the new drug.

Two of the central ethical requirements for clinical trials are voluntary participation and informed consent. The OHRP safeguards aim to ensure that vulnerable populations are not coerced (e.g., prisoners generally cannot be recruited for studies unless the research investigates health issues directly related to the prison population) and that those who may not be fully capable of informed consent are protected by all means (e.g., neonates can only participate in trials for the purpose of obtaining crucial biomedical knowledge that cannot be obtained by other means or has the potential to provide direct benefit to the neonate without posing any additional risk).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Participation of healthy individuals** - A study design for research in healthy individuals in a phase II or higher clinical trial would most likely be rejected by an institutional review board because those phases involve testing a drug in individuals with a specific condition. However, research in healthy individuals is the standard procedure for phase 0 and phase I clinical trials, and an institutional review board would not reject the proposed study design for this reason.

**B - Lack of informed consent** - Informed consent for participation in research is ensured by the proposed study design, as both parents would be provided with sufficient information (e.g., full description of the purpose and design of the study, benefits and side effects of the drug, treatment options, confidentiality) to allow for an informed, voluntary decision about whether to participate in the study. The information would be provided in the participants' native language in written and spoken form to ensure comprehension and sufficient opportunities for the participants to obtain more information. The participants would only be enrolled in the trial after signing a consent form, which is another requirement for informed consent for research purposes.

**D - Conflict of interest** - A conflict of interest can arise when researchers accept financial compensation from a pharmaceutical company, as seen here. However, in the proposed study the company has contractually agreed not to influence the design, conduct, analysis, or publication. Moreover, other than a grant-drawn salary, no financial or material compensation is offered to the investigators, and the duration of the trial is predetermined, excluding any incentives to prolong the duration of the trial for financial reasons.

**E - Plagiarism** - Plagiarism is the unlicensed and/or unauthorized reproduction of someone else’s work for the purpose of passing it off as one’s own original effort. The proposed study is based on the results of a previous study, but its design is significantly different (e.g., involving humans instead of chimps). Plagiarism is not an issue with the study design at this point, although it will be important for the animal trial to be properly cited in the study publication.

