### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Rest, ice, and ibuprofen therapy** - For young patients in whom a diagnosis of costochondritis is highly suspected, supportive care (e.g., rest, ice, and analgesia) without further evaluation is appropriate if cardiopulmonary examination findings are normal and there are no identifiable risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD). Patients who are older than 35 years of age, have cardiopulmonary signs or symptoms, or have a history of or risk factors for CVD should undergo further evaluation (e.g., ECG, chest x-ray) to exclude cardiovascular causes of chest pain.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Measurement of erythrocyte sedimentation rate** - Measurement of the erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) might be indicated in patients with suspected costochondritis if there are accompanying manifestations that suggest an underlying inflammatory or rheumatologic condition (e.g., morning stiffness, arthralgia, myalgias, chest wall swelling), which this patient does not have.

**C - Electrocardiogram** - An electrocardiogram (ECG) is indicated for patients with suspected costochondritis who are older than 35 years of age, have cardiopulmonary signs or symptoms, or have a history of or risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD). This 28-year-old patient has no abnormal cardiopulmonary findings on examination and has no identified risk factors for CVD.

**D - Ultrasonography of the abdomen** - Ultrasonography of the abdomen might be indicated in patients with pain in the infrascapular region or shoulder, which can suggest a gastrointestinal cause of chest wall pain (e.g., acute cholecystitis). This patient, however, has anterior chest pain with point tenderness to palpation along the costochondral junction, which suggests a musculoskeletal etiology. Therefore, ultrasonography of the abdomen is not indicated.

**E - X-ray of the chest** - Chest x-ray is indicated in patients with acute chest pain and features that suggest a rib fracture (e.g., history of trauma, localized chest wall tenderness), a pulmonary cause of chest pain (e.g., cough, abnormal respiratory findings on auscultation), or heart failure (e.g., crackles on auscultation, peripheral edema, history of heart failure or other cardiac condition). In this young, otherwise healthy patient with suspected costochondritis, chest x-ray is not indicated.

**F - Intraarticular injection of lidocaine and triamcinolone** - Intraarticular injection of lidocaine and/or triamcinolone can be used to treat refractory cases of costochondritis. However, these treatments are not appropriate first-line therapies for this condition.

