### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Hematogenous spread of infection to the hip joint** - This patient presents with characteristic symptoms of septic arthritis of the hip (bacterial coxitis), including fever, joint pain, restricted range of motion, local erythema and warmth, and typical hip position (i.e., flexed, abducted, externally rotated). This condition is most commonly caused by hematogenous spread of bacteria (most commonly Staphylococcus aureus) from a distant wound site or due to a recent upper respiratory tract or gastrointestinal infection. Bacterial coxitis is a rare condition and an orthopedic emergency that requires prompt arthrocentesis and culture for diagnosis. Following arthrocentesis and culture, empiric broad spectrum intravenous antibiotic therapy for septic arthritis (e.g., vancomycin, cefazolin) should be initiated immediately to avoid severe joint damage. Additionally, drainage with debridement of necrotic tissue and lavage should be performed to decompress the joint; the hip joint is usually approached via open surgery.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Direct inoculation of a pathogen into the hip joint cavity** - Septic arthritis of the hip can be caused by direct inoculation of bacteria secondary to iatrogenic interventions (e.g., arthrocentesis, arthroscopy) or trauma (e.g., open wounds around the joint, penetrating trauma). However, this patient has no history of recent joint procedure or trauma, and physical examination did not show and open wounds around the hip joint, so a different etiology is more likely.

**B - Displacement of the femoral epiphysis from the femoral neck** - Displacement of the femoral epiphysis from the femoral neck (i.e., slipped capital femoral epiphysis, SCFE) can cause acute onset severe hip pain, limping, and restricted movement of the affected hip, which this patient has. Moreover, SCFE is more common in obese children, like this patient. However, affected children are typically > 10 years of age. Moreover, this patient is holding her hip abducted for pain relief, whereas in SCFE abduction is reduced and painful. Finally, fever and local warmth and erythema are not expected in patients with SCFE.

**D - Autoimmune-mediated inflammation of the hip joint synovium** - Autoimmune-mediated inflammation of the hip joint synovium can be seen in patients with juvenile psoriatic arthritis (psoriatic JIA). Psoriatic JIA is defined as the simultaneous presence of arthritis and psoriasis, which this patient has. Moreover, her family history of psoriatic arthritis puts her at increased risk for this condition. However, psoriatic JIA typically manifests with asymmetric oligoarthritis in small to medium-sized joints; coxitis is rarely the first symptom. Moreover, the acute onset of symptoms, fever, and severe joint pain are not consistent with this condition.

**E - Insufficient blood supply to the femoral head** - Insufficient blood supply to the femoral head causes Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease (LCPD). LCPD is most commonly seen in children between 4 and 10 years of age and typically manifests with a limp and unilateral hip pain referring to the leg. However, the acute onset of symptoms and the presence of fever, malaise, and local warmth and erythema are not consistent with LCPD. Moreover, in LCPD, the pain usually increases with hip abduction, whereas this patient is holding her hip abducted to relieve pain.

