### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Colchicine** - This patient's presentation is consistent with an acute gout attack, for which his history of hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, and thiazide diuretic use are risk factors. First-line therapy for acute gout exacerbations includes nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (e.g., indomethacin), colchicine, or corticosteroids. The choice of treatment is typically based on the patient's age, comorbidities, and drug availability; because this patient has poorly-controlled hypertension, NSAIDs should be avoided. Colchicine, a microtubule polymerization inhibitor that blocks leukocyte phagocytosis of urate crystals, is contraindicated in patients with advanced liver disease and severe renal dysfunction, neither of which this patient has a history of. Colchicine is therefore an acceptable treatment option for this patient.

Image File: 1014-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fec78804a2fc.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Probenecid** - Probenecid is not indicated for the acute management of gout exacerbations, but for maintenance therapy in chronic gout. It inhibits reabsorption of uric acid in the renal tubule, which in turn increases excretion. This agent can be used either as monotherapy or in combination with allopurinol.

**B - Allopurinol** - Allopurinol is not indicated for the acute management of gout exacerbations. It is mainly used as a urate-lowering agent in patients with uric acid nephropathy, tophi development, uric acid levels > 9 mg/dL, or with more than two gouty attacks per year.

**C - Colchicine and allopurinol** - Combination therapy with colchicine and allopurinol is not indicated for the acute management of gout exacerbations. Allopurinol is indicated for maintenance therapy in chronic gout.

**D - Aspirin** - Aspirin is contraindicated in patients with acute gout exacerbations, since it is known to decrease renal uric acid excretion, leading to uric acid retention. Aspirin can be used for non-inflammatory conditions such as osteoarthritis, but it is not as effective for inflammatory arthropathies such as gout.

**E - Prednisone and indomethacin** - While monotherapy with oral corticosteroids can be used for treatment of acute gout exacerbations, it is not commonly given in combination with NSAIDs due to the synergistic adverse effects. In patients treated with both NSAIDs and glucocorticoids, a proton-pump inhibitor should be added to avoid gastrointestinal ulcers. Oral corticosteroids can be used in patients with contraindications to NSAIDs such as peptic ulcer disease and chronic kidney disease, or for those that do not respond to other first-line medications.

**F - Triamcinolone and probenecid** - While triamcinolone (corticosteroid) can be used as an intra-articular injection for the acute management of acute gouty arthritis involving only 1–2 joints, it should not be used as combination therapy with probenecid. Probenecid is indicated for management of chronic gout after the acute attack has resolved and in patients with decreased urinary excretion of uric acid.

**H - Ketorolac and aspirin** - While ketorolac can be used as monotherapy for the acute management of gout exacerbations, it should not be used in combination with aspirin. Aspirin is contraindicated in acute attacks, since it is known to decrease renal uric acid excretion, leading to uric acid retention.

