### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Femoral neck fracture** - A femoral neck fracture should be suspected in an elderly individual who presents with groin pain, inability to walk, decreased range of motion, and an externally rotated and shortened leg after a low-impact fall on the lateral hip. Because the fracture site is intracapsular, there is typically little bruising. This patient's x-ray confirms the diagnosis and shows a right-sided femoral neck fracture with complete displacement of the bone fragments. Immediate management of a femoral neck fracture is essential to prevent severe complications such as avascular necrosis of the femoral head and sciatic nerve injury. Open reduction with internal fixation is recommended in patients < 60 years of age with nondisplaced fractures; patients > 80 years with displaced fractures will require primary arthroplasty, typically total hip replacement.

Image File: 1015-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e60d14e8d882.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Posterior hip dislocation** - Posterior hip dislocation is typically associated with internal, rather than external rotation of the affected limb and most commonly develops as a result of high-speed trauma (e.g., dashboard injury), rather than a low-impact fall on the lateral hip. In addition, this patient's x-ray shows normal joint congruency between the right femoral head and the acetabulum, which is inconsistent with this diagnosis.

Image File: 1015-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a5fb91993a89.jpg

**C - Femoral head fracture** - A femoral head fracture typically occurs as a result of posterior hip dislocation due to high-energy trauma (e.g., dashboard injury), rather than a low-impact fall on the lateral hip. In addition, this patient's x-ray shows an intact femoral head, which is inconsistent with this diagnosis.

Image File: 1015-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_508c11f44f01c.jpg

**D - Pelvic fracture** - A pelvic fracture typically presents with pelvic instability, local ecchymosis (e.g., in the inguinal, scrotal region), and other findings of concomitant pelvic organ injuries (e.g., high-riding prostate due to urethral injury, hematuria due to bladder injury), none of which are seen here. In addition, pelvic fractures usually occur as a result of high-speed trauma (e.g., due to car/motorcycle accident), rather than a low-impact fall on the lateral hip. Lastly, this patient's x-ray shows an intact pelvis, which is inconsistent with pelvic fracture.

Image File: 1015-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d917e8923.jpg

**E - Intertrochanteric fracture** - This was a good option to consider because an intertrochanteric fracture commonly occurs in elderly individuals after a fall on the hip and manifests with an externally rotated and shortened leg, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, this type of hip fracture usually manifests with significant ecchymosis because, unlike in this patient, the fracture site is extracapsular. In addition, this patient's x-ray shows a femoral fracture above the intertrochanteric line, which is inconsistent with this diagnosis.

Image File: 1015-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d914ba919.jpg

