### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Marfan syndrome** - Marfan syndrome may result in an upward temporal lens subluxation due to incompetent zonular fibers and structural abnormalities of the lens capsule, as seen in this patient. The upward and temporal direction is a relatively specific finding that can help distinguish Marfan syndrome from other causes of lens subluxation. Additionally, her clinical picture (tall stature, arachnodactyly, and recurrent shoulder luxation) is typical for patients with this condition. The skin alterations on her left cheek are most likely common acquired melanocytic nevi, which are not relevant for the diagnosis of Marfan syndrome.

Image File: 1016-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f60d13734ca4.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Joint hypermobility syndrome** - Joint hypermobility syndrome has a similar clinical presentation to arachnodactyly and is often connected with a tendency of the joints to dislocate, as seen in this patient. However, there are no ocular complications in joint hypermobility syndrome.

**B - Homocystinuria** - Homocystinuria often has a similar clinical presentation to Marfanoid habitus and lens subluxation. However, lens subluxation is typically downward and inward in a patient with homocystinuria, as opposed to the upward and outward direction found in this woman. Additionally, patients with homocystinuria usually have an intellectual disability, megaloblastic anemia, and thromboembolic events or premature atherosclerosis, which are not noted in this case.

**C - Multiple endocrine neoplasia 2B** - Multiple endocrine neoplasia 2B often causes a marfanoid habitus with ocular complications, as seen in this patient. However, the ocular complications are due to neuromas and do not involve the lens. Additionally, this patient does not have any signs of other complications of MEN2B, such as pheochromocytoma, oral mucosal neuromas, or thyroid cancer.

**D - Sturge-Weber syndrome** - Sturge-Weber syndrome may present with ocular complications, the most common being early onset glaucoma, not lens subluxation. Additionally, characteristic dermatologic findings include a “port-wine stain” as opposed to the junctional nevi seen in this patient.

**E - Ehlers-Danlos syndrome** - Although Ehlers-Danlos syndrome also presents with joint laxity and arachnodactyly, this woman's disproportionately tall stature and ocular findings suggest another diagnosis.

Image File: 1016-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d90b12f88.jpg

