### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - 1.34 to 2.36** - A 95% confidence interval of 1.34–2.36 indicates that there is a 95% chance that the true odds ratio lies between 1.34–2.36 This range contains the calculated odds ratio of 1.74; in addition, it does not contain the null hypothesis value (i.e., an odds ratio of 1) and is, therefore, statistically significant (i.e., P < 0.05).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - 1.75 to 2.48** - A 95% confidence interval of 1.75–2.48 indicates that there is a 95% chance that the true odds ratio lies between 1.75–2.48. Though this range does not contain the null hypothesis value (i.e., an odds ratio of 1), it does not contain the calculated odds ratio of 1.74.

**B - 0.56 to 1.88** - A 95% confidence interval of 0.56–1.88 indicates that there is a 95% chance that the true odds ratio lies between 0.56–1.88. Though this range contains the calculated odds ratio of 1.74, it also contains the null hypothesis value (i.e., an odds ratio of 1) and is, therefore, not statistically significant (i.e., P ≥ 0.05).

**C - 0.36 to 0.94** - A 95% confidence interval of 0.36–0.94 indicates that there is a 95% chance that the true odds ratio lies between 0.36–0.94. Though this range does not contain the null hypothesis value (i.e., an odds ratio of 1), it does not contain the calculated odds ratio of 1.74.

**E - 0.83 to 2.19** - A 95% confidence interval of 0.83–2.19 indicates that there is a 95% chance that the true odds ratio lies between 0.83–2.19. Though this range contains the calculated odds ratio of 1.74, it also contains the null hypothesis value (i.e., an odds ratio of 1) and is, therefore, not statistically significant (i.e., P ≥ 0.05).

