### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - C** - Elevated serum ALP and normal Ca2+, phosphate, and PTH is most consistent with Paget disease of bone. Serum ALP, which is a marker of bone formation (osteoblastic activity), is elevated in Paget disease because the rate of bone turnover is increased. Since both bone formation and bone resorption occur at increased rates, the overall equilibrium is not disturbed and Ca2+, phosphate, and PTH levels are normal.

Image File: 1023-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d92721579.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - Elevated Ca2+ and serum ALP levels with normal phosphate and PTH are most consistent with secondary malignant bone tumors. The formation of osteolytic lesions results in the release of Ca2+ and phosphate. Elevated serum ALP reflects the compensatory activation of osteoblasts. Phosphate is excreted renally and PTH is unaffected or may be decreased due to hypercalcemia. While a secondary malignancy can present with back pain, it does not explain this patient's headache and skull enlargement. Mixed osteolytic-osteoblastic lesions, as seen in this patient's x-ray, are consistent with secondary malignancies; however, these changes are only visible on x-ray if extensive density loss occurs, while periosteal reactions (e.g., cortical thickening) tend to be scarce if at all present.

**B - B** - Elevated Ca2+, PTH, and serum ALP with reduced phosphate are consistent with primary hyperparathyroidism. Elevated PTH levels lead to the release of calcium phosphate from bones as well as increased renal elimination of phosphate. Primary hyperparathyroidism usually manifests with signs of hypercalcemia, including diffuse muscle and bone pain, fatigue, lack of appetite, nausea, constipation, and polyuria and polydipsia. X-ray of the skull would show granular decalcification (salt-and-pepper skull). Thickening of the calvaria and concurrent osteoblastic lesions would not be expected.

**D - D** - Normal serum ALP, Ca2+, phosphate, and PTH is most consistent with primary osteoporosis. The underlying mechanism is not fully understood but the decrease in both osteoclast and osteoblast activity, in which osteoblasts produce osteoid slower than osteoclasts resorb bone, subsequently results in weaker, less densely mineralized bone. Serum biochemistry and hormone levels are typically normal. Although osteoporosis could be responsible for this patient's back pain, it does not explain this patient's headache, skull enlargement, and radiographic signs. Instead, x-ray would show increased radiolucency in cortical bones.

**E - E** - Reduced Ca2+ and PTH, elevated phosphate, and normal serum ALP levels are most consistent with hypoparathyroidism. In the absence of PTH, Ca2+ levels drop due to insufficient gastrointestinal absorption and renal and bone resorption. Renal phosphate excretion is also reduced, resulting in elevated phosphate levels. Serum ALP, which is a marker for bone formation (osteoblast activity), is normal. Hypocalcemia can trigger a variety of symptoms, ranging from muscle cramps to seizures and heart failure. Manifestations of chronic hypoparathyroidism include movement disorders (due to basal ganglia calcifications), cataracts, and skeletal or dental abnormalities. X-ray would show increased bone mineral density (osteosclerosis) and no osteolytic lesions. Skull enlargement would not be expected.

