### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Rheumatoid arthritis** - Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is associated with inflammation of the synovium, which can cause production of excess synovial fluid and, subsequently, formation of a Baker cyst. RA is one of the most common causes of Baker cyst. This patient presents with subtle features of RA, including polyarticular arthritis affecting the right knee and her finger and wrist joints, as well as a history of low-grade fever and fatigue, which makes this condition the most likely diagnosis.

Image File: 1024-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60f6b8df13740.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Osteoarthritis** - Osteoarthritis (OA) can affect multiple joints, as seen in this patient, with a predilection for weight-bearing and high-use joints, such as the knees, hips, and wrist joints. Osteoarthritis of the knee is a common risk factor for the development of a Baker cyst and this patient's family history of osteoarthritis and frequent alcohol use put her at increased risk. However, this patient lacks other strong risk factors for OA (e.g., age > 55 years, severe obesity, positive trauma history, excessive joint use). Also, joint involvement in OA is typically isolated and asymmetrical, whereas this patient shows polyarticular and symmetrical involvement of her hands and wrists. Fever and fatigue are not characteristic of OA.

**B - Psoriatic arthritis** - Psoriatic arthritis (PA) can manifest with symmetric polyarthritis or oligoarthritis of peripheral and axial joints. However, this patient lacks the typical skin findings (demarcated erythematous lesions and white scaling plaques) and nail changes (e.g., nail pitting, brittle nails) seen in psoriasis. While PA, like other arthritides, is a risk factor for the development of a Baker cyst, the involvement of finger joints in PA is more commonly characterized by a diffuse swelling of the entire digit (dactylitis/sausage digit) rather than the hand or wrist.

Image File: 1024-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5db84741484e2.jpg

**C - Popliteal artery aneurysm** - Popliteal artery aneurysm can present as a mass in the popliteal fossa. However, the mass would be pulsatile on examination. Since this patient presents with evidence of polyarthritis, including the knee joint, it is more likely that the popliteal mass is a Baker cyst.

**E - Gout** - Patients with acute gout typically present with monoarticular inflammation, such as podagra, progressive erythema, swelling, severe pain, and acute tenderness of the joint that develops over 6–12 hours. It can also manifest in the knee (gonagra) and, in its chronic form, present with a Baker cyst as a sign of a chronic degenerative joint disorder. This patient has several risk factors for the development of gout, including diabetes, hypertension, and alcohol consumption. However, polyarticular involvement of the hands and wrists as the initial manifestation would be unusual. Furthermore, the affected joints in acute gout are typically exquisitely tender to palpation. Although polyarticular involvement, as seen in this patient, can sometimes occur in chronic gout, tophi would likely be evident on physical exam.

Image File: 1024-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59d4fd56f099a.jpg

**F - Systemic lupus erythematosus** - Manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) include symmetrical polyarthritis, fever, and fatigue, as seen in this patient. However, arthritis in SLE is typically migratory (i.e., arthritic symptoms may disappear in one joint and appear in another within the same day). More importantly, while inflammatory arthritis is a risk factor for the development of Baker cysts, they are not a common finding in patients with SLE.

