### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Intravenous cefepime** - Empiric antibiotic therapy is based on the Gram stain of the synovial fluid of the affected joint and should be initiated as early as possible to minimize the risk of sepsis and damage to the affected joint. In this case, the Gram stain shows gram-negative bacilli, which, given the history of a preceding urinary tract infection, is most likely to be Escherichia coli. The empiric antibiotics of choice for gram-negative bacilli are third-generation cephalosporins (e.g., ceftazidime) or cefepime. Alternative empiric antibiotics for gram-negative bacilli include piperacillin-tazobactam, carbapenems, and, in patients with a known allergy to beta-lactam antibiotics, fluoroquinolones or aztreonam.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous nafcillin** - IV nafcillin or other penicillins (e.g., oxacillin, flucloxacillin) may be used for empirical treatment of septic arthritis caused by gram-positive cocci, provided the likelihood of MRSA infection is low. Nafcillin would not be effective against the gram-negative rods causing this patient's arthritis.

**B - Intravenous vancomycin and ceftazidime** - IV vancomycin with either ceftazidime or an aminoglycoside is a broad-spectrum regimen that covers gram-positive as well as gram-negative organisms. This regimen is the preferred empirical treatment of septic arthritis if the Gram stain does not show any organisms. It would not be the most appropriate combination of antibiotics in this patient whose Gram stain shows gram-negative bacilli.

**D - Intravenous ceftazidime and gentamicin** - A combination of ceftazidime and an aminoglycoside (gentamicin) is an empiric antibiotic regimen in patients with suspected Pseudomonas aeruginosa septic arthritis. Pseudomonas is a gram-negative rod (GNR). However, this patient has no risk factors for Pseudomonas infection, such as IV drug use, diabetes mellitus, or recent nosocomial infection. Moreover, this patient's recent UTI suggests another GNR is the likely cause of his septic arthritis. Finally, gentamicin, a nephrotoxic drug, should be used sparingly in the elderly.

**E - Intravenous vancomycin** - IV vancomycin is preferred in septic arthritis caused by gram-positive cocci if the risk of MRSA infection is high, e.g., in patients with prolonged hospitalization, indwelling catheters, living in nursing homes, immunosuppression, and recent use of antibiotics. Although this patient has recently used antibiotics and may have a weakened immune system due to his advanced age, the Gram stain of his synovial fluid shows gram-negative bacilli. Vancomycin is not effective against gram-negative rods.

