### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Needle manometry** - Needle manometry confirms the diagnosis of acute compartment syndrome (ACS) by measuring compartment pressure. A delta pressure (diastolic pressure - compartment pressure) ≤ 30 mm Hg is diagnostic. However, if needle manometry is not readily available and ACS is highly suspected, a confirmatory test is not necessary and the patient must undergo emergent forearm fasciotomy. Fasciotomy must be performed within 4–6 hours after the onset of symptoms to prevent muscle and soft tissue necrosis, irreversible nerve damage, and Volkmann contracture. Ischemic features (e.g., pallor, pulselessness, increased capillary refill time, poikilothermia, paralysis) are usually late findings of ACS (typically occurring 4–6 hours after the onset of symptoms) and portend a poor prognosis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - CT arteriography** - CT arteriography can show filling defects and is the most appropriate test to confirm thrombotic or embolic arterial occlusion (the most common causes of acute limb ischemia). This patient, however, has acute compartment syndrome (ACS) and is yet to develop acute limb ischemia. In a patient with ACS, arteriography will show a filling defect only when muscle compartment pressure exceeds arterial blood pressure and collapses arteries, which occurs late in the course of ACS. Therefore, arteriography is not appropriate for diagnosing ACS.

**C - Duplex ultrasonography** - Duplex ultrasonography (combined B-mode and pulse wave Doppler) is often used in the initial workup of acute limb ischemia. This patient, however, has acute compartment syndrome (ACS) and is yet to develop acute limb ischemia. In a patient with ACS, certain Doppler findings (e.g., loss of early diastolic blood flow reversal distal to the site of ACS, increased peak-systolic arterial blood velocity proximal to the site of ACS) might be seen in the early course of the condition. However, these findings are neither sensitive nor specific enough to confirm the diagnosis of ACS.

**D - Impedance plethysmography** - Impedance plethysmography is a noninvasive test that was previously used to diagnose deep venous thrombosis and chronic arterial insufficiency. It is not used nowadays in clinical practice. Moreover, impedance plethysmography involves inflation of a cuff around the limb being examined; this procedure would increase intracompartmental pressure and worsen acute compartment syndrome, which this patient likely has.

**E - MRI of the left forearm** - An MRI of the affected extremity would show soft tissue edema, which is expected in a patient with acute compartment syndrome (ACS). However, MRI does not differentiate between the expected edema in patients following traumatic fractures and surgery, which this patient has experienced, and compartment edema, seen in ACS. This diagnostic study is, therefore, of little utility in a patient with early signs of ACS.

**F - Lymphoscintigraphy** - Lymphoscintigraphy can be used to localize lymphatic obstructions in patients with peripheral lymphedema. Patients with this condition present with pain and diffuse swelling of the affected extremity, both of which are seen here. However, peripheral lymphedema is typically insidious rather than acute, and the pain is less severe and does not worsen with passive muscle stretch. This patient's presentation is more suggestive of acute compartment syndrome, for which lymphoscintigraphy has no diagnostic value.

**G - Nerve conduction study** - Nerve conduction studies are usually used in the follow-up of patients with a history of acute compartment syndrome (ACS) to assess for nerve damage, a common complication of ACS. In the acute setting, however, a different diagnostic study is used to confirm ACS.

**H - Serum creatine kinase concentration** - Serum creatine kinase (CK) concentration can be elevated in acute compartment syndrome (ACS) because of rhabdomyolysis resulting from muscle ischemia. Serum CK concentration may be used as an adjunct in ACS to assess for rhabdomyolysis and to guide fluid resuscitation, which helps to prevent the development or worsening of acute kidney injury due to rhabdomyolysis. However, serum CK concentration is neither sensitive nor specific for ACS, as CK levels can be elevated in other situations (e.g., strenuous exercise, skeletal muscle injury due to trauma, surgery, myocardial infarction). Therefore, serum CK concentration is of little utility in confirming the diagnosis of ACS.

