### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Rotator cuff tear** - Subacromial impingement syndrome, rotator cuff tendinopathy, and rotator cuff tear can all manifest with pain exacerbated by overhead activity. This patient's pain with passive abduction between 60 and 120 degrees suggests impingement and/or rotator cuff disease, and the weakness seen on the drop arm test further narrows the diagnosis to a tear in the supraspinatus muscle of the rotator cuff. It is important to note that the sensitivity and specificity of these physical examination maneuvers are limited, especially with regard to rotator cuff tears; musculoskeletal ultrasound and/or MRI should be performed to confirm the diagnosis.

Image File: 1029-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ac6e9253c24.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cervical radiculopathy** - Cervical radiculopathy is most often caused by spondylosis or a herniated disc in the cervical spine and may cause neck, shoulder, and arm pain. However, cervical radiculopathy is typically characterized by radiating pain and paresthesias. Pain with passive abduction of the shoulder would not be expected, and radicular pain would not resolve with local anesthesia targeting the subacromial space.

**C - Calcific tendinitis** - Calcific tendinitis of the rotator cuff can also manifest with shoulder pain exacerbated by overhead activity, as seen in this patient. However, this patient's pain with passive movement of the arm, positive drop arm test, and negative lidocaine injection test are not consistent with calcific tendinitis.

**D - Subacromial bursitis** - Subacromial bursitis is usually due to repetitive overhead movement. It may result in subacromial impingement syndrome and can progress to adhesive capsulitis if movement is limited by pain for a prolonged period of time. Although subacromial bursitis is also characterized by pain with abduction, as seen in this patient, it would not cause weakness.

**E - Polymyalgia rheumatica** - Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is most common in women > 50 years old and can present with shoulder pain and morning stiffness. However, pain from PMR is usually bilateral, diffuse, and accompanied by neck pain and/or pelvic girdle pain. Although this patient complains of morning stiffness, PMR is characterized by prolonged morning stiffness (> 45 minutes). Additionally, this patient's weakness on examination is not consistent with PMR.

**F - Biceps tendinitis** - Biceps tendinitis is usually due to repetitive lifting or pulling activities. It typically manifests with anterior shoulder pain that radiates down the anterior upper arm. The pain with passive abduction and weakness seen in this patient is not consistent with biceps tendinitis.

**G - Rotator cuff tendinitis** - Rotator cuff tendinitis is common in individuals who engage in repetitive overhead activities and may also manifest with shoulder pain exacerbated by activity. Although there may be some weakness present, this is usually due to pain. Also, the weakness associated with rotator cuff tendinitis should resolve with subacromial lidocaine injection. This patient's continued pain and limited range of motion suggest another diagnosis.

**H - Adhesive capsulitis** - The diagnosis of adhesive capsulitis (frozen shoulder) should be considered in a patient presenting with shoulder pain with limited active range of motion, which is the case here. Pain and active range of motion typically do not improve significantly with a lidocaine injection test. However, passive range of motion is typically restricted in patients with frozen shoulder, making this diagnosis unlikely.

