### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Damage to the upper trunk of the brachial plexus** - Damage to the upper trunk of the brachial plexus results in Erb palsy, the most common neonatal brachial plexus palsy. The most commonly involved nerve roots are C5 and C6, which results in adduction and internal rotation of the arm and extension and pronation of the forearm. Less commonly, the C7 nerve root is also involved, which results in flexion of the wrist and fingers, as seen in this patient. Erb palsy is typically caused by excessive lateral traction on the fetal head during complex obstetric maneuvers, which are often required to deliver fetuses with macrosomia (which, in this patient, was most likely caused by maternal diabetes). Most cases of Erb palsy resolve spontaneously within the first year of life with conservative management (e.g., immobilization, splinting, and physical therapy); surgical intervention is considered when functional impairment does not improve.

Image File: 1030-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6086b8e93715b.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Injury to the median nerve** - Injury to the median nerve can manifest with motor deficits (e.g., of thumb opposition and abduction, wrist pronation and flexion, index and middle finger flexion) and sensory deficits (e.g., on the thumb, index, middle, and radial side of the ring finger) that correlate to the location of injury (e.g., proximal or distal to the elbow or within the wrist). Injury to the median nerve is exceptionally rare among neonates. Moreover, this patient's neurologic examination findings are not consistent with median nerve palsy.

**B - Fracture of the clavicle** - Clavicular fractures are the most commonly reported fractures in neonates during vaginal or cesarean delivery. Nondisplaced fractures are typically asymptomatic and are detected after a callus develops several weeks after delivery. Displaced fractures can manifest with swelling, crepitus, pseudoparalysis, tenderness upon palpation, and pain with passive motion of the shoulder. Clavicular fractures are not associated with peripheral nerve palsies. Moreover, this neonate has a normal clavicular examination.

**D - Damage to the lower trunk of the brachial plexus** - Damage of the lower trunk (C8–T1) of the brachial plexus results in Klumpke palsy, a neonatal brachial plexus palsy that is most commonly caused by hyperabduction (excessive upward traction) of the arm during delivery, which can occur during complex obstetric maneuvers. Klumpke palsy classically manifests with isolated paralysis of the hand; this neonate, who has normal grasp reflexes, is unlikely to have this condition. Additional manifestations of Klumpke palsy include Horner syndrome (due to the approximation of the sympathetic chain to the T1 nerve root) and the development of muscular atrophy of the intrinsic hand muscles, which can lead to a “claw hand” deformity.

**E - Asphyxia during the delivery** - Perinatal asphyxia (e.g., due to maternal hypotension, placental insufficiency, knotting of the umbilical cord) is a life-threatening condition that can result in multi-organ failure, cerebral injury, and, in severe cases, neonatal encephalopathy and death. Neonates who are successfully stabilized may develop lethargy, poor feeding, hypotonia, apnea, and seizures; they do not typically have an isolated peripheral nerve palsy. Long-term complications of perinatal asphyxia include intellectual disability, developmental delay, and cerebral palsy.

**F - Fibrosis and contracture of the sternocleidomastoid muscle** - Fibrosis and contracture of the sternocleidomastoid muscle can cause congenital torticollis (infant torticollis), which is typically associated with intrauterine constraint (e.g., due to oligohydramnios, multiple gestations, macrosomia), decreased fetal movement, breech presentation, and assisted vaginal delivery. It does not cause peripheral nerve palsies. Congenital torticollis is characterized by persistent tilting of the head to one side, with the chin rotated toward the opposite side. Neonates typically have restricted range of motion and can develop thickening of the sternocleidomastoid muscle. None of these manifestations are seen in this patient.

**G - Aspiration of meconium** - Meconium aspiration syndrome occurs when a neonate aspirates meconium in the amniotic fluid during or shortly after delivery. Meconium is typically sterile, but exposure to the lung tissue causes the release of inflammatory and vasoactive substances, which can lead to marked respiratory distress. Although fluid with dark green streaks was present during the delivery of this neonate, she does not have manifestations of meconium aspiration syndrome, which include tachypnea, cyanosis, nasal flaring, grunting, accessory muscle use, and intercostal retractions. Moreover, this condition does not cause peripheral nerve palsies.

