### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Osteoarthritis** - This patient presents with symptoms characteristic of osteoarthritis (OA). She has pain in weight-bearing joints (knees) that is worse in the evening (due to ambulation during the day). After prolonged immobility, she experiences joint stiffness lasting < 30 minutes. She also has distal interphalangeal joint nodules (Heberden's nodes). Obesity and advanced age are known risk factors for OA.

Image File: 1033-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94516608.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pseudogout** - Pseudogout is joint inflammation due to calcium pyrophosphate crystal deposition. Chronic CPPD can cause progressively worsening pain affecting large and small joints. However, the nodules seen in this patient would not be present in CPPD.

**B - Rheumatoid arthritis** - Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) predominantly occurs among women and can affect both large and small joints. It presents as a symmetrical arthropathy with joint pain and early morning stiffness and can cause rheumatoid nodules in the affected small joints, as seen here. However, in patients with RA, morning joint stiffness characteristically lasts for > 30 minutes, and distal interphalangeal joints (DIP) are not as frequently affected.

Image File: 1033-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_51dbf4bdbb9a1.jpg

**C - Gout** - Gout can cause joint pain and firm nodular swellings at the affected joints (gouty tophi). This patient also has a few risk factors for gout (e.g., advanced age, obesity, alcohol consumption). However, gout arthropathy is typically acute, asymmetric, and monoarticular, unlike this patient's chronic, symmetric polyarthritis with early morning stiffness.

Image File: 1033-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91b4e3df.jpg

**D - Septic arthritis** - Septic arthritis causes joint pain. However, it has an acute onset, typically affects a single joint, and is characterized by signs of inflammation (erythema, edema, warmth), unlike in this patient.

