### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Obtain x-rays of the spine** - Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis typically occurs in children 10–12 years of age, more often affecting girls. It can manifest with pain, reduced mobility, asymmetry of the shoulder blades, and progressive respiratory compromise in those with severe scoliosis. The Adams forward bend test can be used to screen patients, but an x-ray is necessary to confirm diagnosis. Moreover, x-ray aids in determining the Cobb angle, which correlates with disease severity and treatment options. Patients with a Cobb angle less than 20° can be managed with observation, patients with a Cobb angle between 20–29° can receive bracing, patients with an angle 30–39° should receive bracing, and patients with an angle > 40° should be referred for spinal fusion surgery.

Image File: 1037-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91385adb.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Obtain MRI of the spine** - Individuals with scoliosis and examination findings suggestive of an intraspinal disease should receive an MRI. Scoliosis due to intraspinal diseases (e.g., tumors, syringomyelia) can manifest with bilateral leg pain, muscle aches, and spasms. However, intraspinal diseases typically manifest with more significant neurological findings (e.g., increased reflexes, paresthesia, paralysis), which are not present here. This patient's age, history, and examination findings are more suggestive of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis, which can be diagnosed with a more readily available imaging modality.

**C - Refer to orthopedic surgeon for bracing** - While bracing can be used to treat adolescent idiopathic scoliosis, treatment can only be considered once a patient's diagnosis has been confirmed and the Cobb angle has been measured.

**D - Measure serum creatine kinase concentration** - Elevated serum creatine kinase is typically seen in patients with neuromuscular diseases (e.g., Duchenne muscular dystrophy, facioscapulohumeral dystrophy, limb-pelvic girdle), which can manifest with scoliosis. However, patients with neuromuscular scoliosis also have other neuromuscular signs (e.g., spasticity, Gower maneuver, muscle atrophy) and rarely present solely with scoliosis. This patient's fatigue, muscle aches, and spasms in her legs that resolved after her first few training sessions are most likely normal training effects rather than due to an underlying condition.

**E - Close observation only** - While close observation may be appropriate in patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis and a Cobb angle less than 20°, management can only be considered once a patient's diagnosis has been confirmed and the Cobb angle has been determined.

