### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - 0.25** - The PPV is the proportion of positive tests that are true positives. The PPV is calculated by dividing the number of true positives (TP) by the total number of positives (i.e. true positives plus false positives, FP). In this study, TP = 700 and FP = 2100:

PPV = TP/(TP + FP)

PPV = 700/(700 + 2100) → 700/2800 = 0.25,or 25%

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - 1.4** - 1.4 is the positive likelihood ratio of the TB test. This ratio reflects the likelihood that a person with a given disease will have a positive test result compared to a person without the disease having a positive test result. Thus, a positive likelihood ratio is the true positive rate/false positive rate.

The first step to calculating the positive likelihood ratio is to calculate the sensitivity (true positive rate) and the specificity (true negative rate) of this TB test.

In this study, TP = 700, FN = 300, FP = 2100, and TN = 2100:

Sensitivity = TP/(FN + TP) = 700/(300 + 700) → 700/1000 = 0.70, or 70%

Specificity = TN/(FP + TN) = 2100/(2100 + 2100) → 2100/4200 = 0.50, or 50%

Remember that the positive likelihood ratio (+LR) is true positive rate/false positive rate. As specificity is the true negative rate, the false positive rate is yet to be calculated. The formula for calculating the positive likelihood ratio is sensitivity/(1 - specificity), where 1 - specificity represents the false positive rate.

+LR = 0.70 /(1 - 0.50) → 0.70/0.50 = 1.4

**C - 0.50** - 0.50 or 50% is the specificity of this TB test. This test is also known as the true negative rate because it represents the probability of a test being negative in the case of a patient without the disease. As a result, highly specific tests are most commonly used as confirmatory tests because they have low false positive rates. In this study, FP = 2100 and TN = 2100:

Specificity = TN/(FP + TN)

Specificity = 2100/(2100 + 2100) → 2100/4200 = 0.50, or 50%

**D - 0.70** - 0.70 or 70% is the sensitivity of this TB test. This value is also known as the true positive rate because it is the probability of the test being positive in cases of true disease. High sensitivity tests, therefore, are useful for ruling out diseases, as they rarely have false negative results. In this study, TP = 700 and FN = 300:

Sensitivity = TP/(FN + TP)

Sensitivity = 700/(300 + 700) → 700/1000 = 0.70, or 70%

**E - 0.88** - The negative predictive value (NPV) is the probability that an individual who tested negative is actually disease-free. The NPV is calculated by dividing the number of true negatives (TN) by the total number of negatives, i.e. true negatives plus false negatives (FN). In this study, TN = 2100 and FN = 300:

NPV = TN/(FN + TN)

NPV = 2100/(300 + 2100) → 2100/2400 = 0.88, or 88%

