### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Abnormal development of the acetabulum** - Abnormal development of the acetabulum and an abnormal relationship between this structure and the femoral head is the underlying cause of developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH). Depending on the affected structures, DDH can cause hip instability (capsular laxity), subluxation of the femoral head, hip dislocation, and/or acetabular dysplasia. The etiology is not yet fully understood, but a breech presentation, female sex, firstborn status, and a family history of DDH are important risk factors. Early detection of DDH is important, as the prognosis worsens with increasing age. Hip ultrasound is the imaging modality of choice in all infants younger than 4 months. A harness is the treatment of choice for infants with DDH who are less than 6 months old.

Image File: 1040-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5bc9c49270b90.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Avascular necrosis of the femoral head** - Avascular necrosis of the femoral head is the pathophysiology underlying Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease, which may be unilateral or bilateral. Affected patients generally present with hip pain (occasionally projecting to the knee), limited internal rotation, and an antalgic gait, none of which is seen in this patient (and which would be difficult to assess at this time). Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease typically manifests in children 4–10 years of age and would not be expected in a newborn.

Image File: 1040-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_547454f18cf05.jpg

**B - Fracture of the femoral neck** - Patients with a fracture of the femoral neck classically present with a shortened and externally rotated leg (which is seen in this patient). However, femoral neck fractures typically occur in the elderly (> 70 years of age) and would not be expected in a newborn.

Image File: 1040-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_508c11f44f01c.jpg

**C - Inflammation of the hip synovium** - Inflammation of the hip synovium is seen in patients with transient synovitis (TS). Patients with TS typically present with hip pain and a limp, neither of which is seen in this patient (and which would be difficult to assess at this time). This inflammatory condition, which is usually self-limiting, most often occurs after viral illnesses in children 3–10 years of age and would not be likely in a newborn. Moreover, the patient here has signs of hip instability (i.e., leg length discrepancy, asymmetrical gluteal folds), which are not consistent with TS.

**E - Traction apophysitis of the tibial tubercle** - Traction apophysitis of the tibial tubercle is characteristic of Osgood-Schlatter disease. Osgood-Schlatter disease classically manifests in children 9–14 years of age with anterior knee pain and point tenderness over the tibial tuberosity, which is not reported in this patient. Moreover, this newborn has signs of hip instability (i.e., leg length discrepancy, asymmetrical gluteal folds), which are not consistent with Osgood-Schlatter disease.

**F - Displacement of the femoral epiphysis** - Displacement of the femoral epiphysis is seen in patients with slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE), which can manifest with hip instability and external rotation of the leg. However, SCFE occurs most often in obese boys 10–16 years of age and would not be expected in a newborn.

