### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - D** - Vitamin D deficiency causes hypocalcemia and hypophosphatemia by decreasing calcium and phosphate absorption in the intestine. Hypocalcemia leads to increased PTH secretion (secondary hyperparathyroidism), which increases bone turnover and mobilizes the calcium stored in bones; increased bone turnover is indicated by high levels of ALP. High levels of PTH also worsen hypophosphatemia by decreasing renal phosphate reabsorption. In children, these mechanisms ultimately lead to rickets due to defective bone and cartilaginous growth plate mineralization.

Image File: 1041-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59f7696f31bde.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - High serum ALP and normal calcium, phosphorus, and PTH levels are characteristic of Paget disease of the bone (PDB), which can manifest with pathological fractures of long bones (chalk stick fractures). While PDB lesions can have a mixed lytic (radiolucent) and sclerotic appearance on x-ray, they typically appear as lytic lesions within a background of diffuse sclerosis; Looser zones are not characteristic of PDB. Furthermore, PDB is rare in young children, and it causes skull enlargement rather than delayed fontanelle closure and craniotabes.

**B - B** - Normal calcium, phosphorus, PTH, and ALP levels are seen in osteoporosis, which can manifest with pathological fractures and increased radiolucency on x-ray because of decreased bone density. However, in osteoporosis, the bone appears diffusely radiolucent on x-ray, in contrast with this patient's transverse band-like lesions with sclerotic margins. Moreover, osteoporosis is rare in young children.

**C - C** - Decreased phosphate and increased calcium, ALP, and PTH levels are characteristic of primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT), which can manifest with focal osteolytic lesions (osteitis fibrosa cystica) on x-ray. However, osteolytic lesions in a patient with PHPT are usually round/polygonal and circumscribed, unlike the distinctive transverse band-like lesions seen here. Although PHPT is common among adults, it only rarely affects children (e.g., children with MEN 1 syndrome).

**E - E** - Decreased calcium and PTH levels with normal serum ALP levels and increased phosphate are consistent with primary hypoparathyroidism. Features of bone disease are usually absent in individuals with primary hypoparathyroidism. Although primary hypoparathyroidism can be seen in infants with DiGeorge syndrome or autoimmune conditions, it is most commonly caused by iatrogenic damage to the parathyroid glands during neck surgery (e.g., thyroidectomy) or neck irradiation in adults.

**F - F** - Decreased calcium and increased phosphate, ALP, and PTH levels are seen in patients with pseudohypoparathyroidism (PHP), which typically manifests during childhood. In PHP, renal end-organ resistance to PTH can result in focal osteolytic bone lesions (renal osteodystrophy, osteitis fibrosa cystica). However, most affected individuals also present with features of Albright hereditary osteodystrophy (e.g., round face, obesity, short fourth metacarpals, soft tissue calcifications, dental hypoplasia), none of which is seen here. This set of findings could also be seen in patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism due to advanced chronic kidney disease, which is unlikely in a child with no history of renal disease.

