### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Bursal fluid aspiration** - Diagnostic bursal fluid aspiration is indicated in all patients who have bursitis in a superficial bursa. The aspirated fluid should be analyzed for infection via Gram stain, bacterial culture, and a white blood cell count with differential, as well as for crystal arthropathies via examination under a polarizing microscope. An immunocompromised state (e.g., monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance) is a risk factor for developing septic bursitis, which can manifest acutely with local findings as well as fatigue, myalgia, and/or fever. Empiric antibiotics against staphylococci and streptococci should be initiated in this patient after fluid aspiration and adjusted according to bursal fluid culture results. Imaging is usually unnecessary unless bone involvement is suspected. Complications of bursal fluid aspiration include spread of infection to the adjacent bursa or joint.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intraarticular glucocorticoid injection** - Intraarticular glucocorticoid injection can be used to treat chronic osteoarthritis, which can manifest with knee pain and swelling in an older individual. However, the onset of pain in osteoarthritis is insidious, rather than acute. Moreover, erythema, fever, tachycardia, and fatigue suggest an infection, which is a contraindication for intraarticular glucocorticoid injections. This patient's prepatellar swelling and normal range of motion indicate that the source of his symptoms is located outside of the joint.

**B - Oral dicloxacillin therapy** - Oral dicloxacillin therapy is indicated for septic bursitis that is caused by an organism susceptible to dicloxacillin, such as Streptococcus aureus, which is the most common causal organism. Patients with septic bursitis are initially treated with empiric antibiotic therapy until the causative pathogen is identified. In addition, a different step in management is indicated before treatment is begun.

**D - Rest, ice, compress, and elevate** - Rest, ice, compression, and elevation (RICE) is indicated for the initial treatment of noninfectious bursitis. This patient, however, has additional signs of infection, such as fever, fatigue, and tachycardia. Therefore, he requires another form of management before conservative therapy is initiated.

**E - Arthroscopy of the knee** - Arthroscopy of the knee may be indicated in patients with suspected intraarticular pathology (e.g., meniscal injuries). However, this patient has a prepatellar swelling, which indicates an extraarticular pathology. In addition, this patient has a normal range of motion in his knee joint, making an intraarticular pathology unlikely.

