### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease** - Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease (LCPD) is characterized by avascular necrosis of the femoral head and is due to rapid epiphyseal growth without adequate blood supply. LCPD most commonly manifests in boys 4–10 years of age with limping, pain on flexion, abduction, external rotation of the hip, and referred knee pain, as seen in this patient. This condition typically has an insidious onset and is not associated with fever or hematologic abnormalities. Its underlying pathophysiology is not fully understood, but it is likely multifactorial, arising from a combination of repetitive mechanical stress, microtrauma, and genetic predisposition.

Image File: 1043-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_547ddd39f3356.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Developmental dysplasia of the hip** - Developmental dysplasia of the hip is characterized by abnormal development of the acetabulum, which results in hip instability, hip pain, and a restricted range of abduction. However, this condition typically becomes symptomatic in the first year of life. Late findings, which can be seen in children ∼ 18 months of age, include leg length discrepancy and a waddling or a Trendelenburg gait.

**B - Juvenile idiopathic arthritis** - Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is characterized by immune-mediated synovial inflammation and can involve the hip, which results in pain. However, pain associated with JIA is characteristically worse early in the morning and improves with activity during the day. This patient's pain is exacerbated by walking. In addition, JIA is typically associated with intermittent fever and elevated inflammatory markers, including leukocyte count.

**C - Transient synovitis** - Transient synovitis is characterized by inflammation of the hip joint capsule and is a common cause of acute hip pain among children (peak incidence of 4–10 years of age). However, this condition is typically associated with a recent viral infection. This patient has no evidence of current or recent infection (no fever, cough, runny nose, or leukocytosis). In addition, transient synovitis usually resolves within a few days and is unlikely to persist for 2 weeks.

**D - Osgood-Schlatter disease** - Osgood-Schlatter disease is characterized primarily by anterior knee pain due to repetitive strain (overuse of the quadriceps muscle) during periods of growth. It is not associated with hip pain or a restricted range of motion of the hip joint. In addition, it more commonly affects older boys (peak incidence of 9–14 years of age).

**E - Septic arthritis** - Septic arthritis is caused by bacterial infection of a joint and typically manifests with joint pain and restricted range of motion. However, patients with septic arthritis usually have fever, leukocytosis, and a more acute disease course. In addition, although this patient does have an antalgic gait, septic arthritis of the hip joint typically results in severe pain that impairs weight bearing.

**F - Slipped capital femoral epiphysis** - Slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE) is characterized by posterior and inferior displacement of the femoral epiphysis and can manifest with hip pain, referred knee pain, a restricted range of internal rotation of the hip, and an antalgic gait. Although acute presentations of SCFE (which are associated with < 3 weeks of symptoms) can occur, they are usually associated with trauma. Most presentations of SCFE are chronic and manifest with vague, intermittent symptoms across several weeks to months. Moreover, SCFE is most commonly seen in obese children who are 10–16 years of age.

