### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Occult malignancy** - Hypertrophic osteoarthropathy (HOA) is most commonly associated with adenocarcinoma of the lung. Patients with HOA present with arthritis, digital clubbing, and periostitis of the distal diaphysis of long bones, as seen here. Some affected individuals also develop thickening of the skin (pachyderma). The exact pathophysiology of this condition is not entirely understood but the release of certain growth factors like VEGF and PDGF from the tumor is thought to play a role. Other causes include chronic pulmonary conditions (e.g., bronchiectasis, cystic fibrosis) and, less commonly, hepatic and gastrointestinal disease (e.g., cirrhosis, inflammatory bowel disease). HOA in a previously healthy patient should raise suspicion for an occult pulmonary malignancy and a low-dose CT scan (LDCT) of the chest should be obtained. Adenocarcinoma of the lung can occur in nonsmokers, like this patient, and is more common among female than male individuals.

Image File: 1044-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_517be8d408a5b.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Accelerated bone turnover** - Accelerated bone turnover is the cause of Paget disease of bone (PDB), which often affects the long bones of the lower extremities (e.g., tibia). PDB can manifest with bone pain, swelling overlying the affected region, and periosteal thickening, all of which are seen here. However, PDB typically does not lead to arthritis, and in addition to a periosteal reaction, an x-ray would show lytic and/or sclerotic lesions in the bone cortex and, possibly, anterior bowing of the tibia, neither of which are seen here. This patient's condition is not the result of accelerated bone turnover.

Image File: 1044-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_602f844a15020.jpg

**C - Left-to-right cardiac shunt** - A right-to-left cardiac or pulmonary shunt (e.g., pulmonary arteriovenous malformation) rather than a left-to-right cardiac shunt (e.g., patent foramen ovale) can cause hypertrophic osteoarthropathy. A right-to-left shunt bypasses the filtering effect of pulmonary circulation on platelet clumps, which then accumulate peripherally and produce growth factors (e.g., PDGF) that can cause osseous hypertrophy.

**D - Nutritional deficiency** - Vitamin D deficiency can cause bone pain but does not cause joint swelling and stiffness or digital clubbing, which are seen here. Moreover, x-ray findings of osteomalacia include decreased bone lucency and Looser zones, not periosteal thickening. This patient's condition is not the result of a nutritional deficiency.

Image File: 1044-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59f7696f31bde.jpg

**E - Autoimmune joint disease** - Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune joint disease that occasionally affects the ankle joints, and it manifests with joint pain, swelling, and decreased range of motion, all of which are seen in this patient. However, the stiffness and pain associated with RA typically improve rather than worsen with activity. Moreover, RA does not cause digital clubbing or periosteal thickening; instead, finger deformities (e.g., swan neck deformity, Boutonniere deformity) and different x-ray findings (e.g., concentric joint space narrowing, subcortical cysts, para-articular osteopenia) would be expected. This patient's arthralgia is not the result of an autoimmune process.

Image File: 1044-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_610b85f787eb9.jpg

**F - Chronic degenerative disease** - Osteoarthritis is a chronic degenerative disease that can affect the ankle joints, and it manifests with joint stiffness, restricted range of motion, and pain that worsens with activity, all of which are seen here. However, osteoarthritis does not cause digital clubbing or periosteal thickening. Instead, an x-ray would show irregular joint space narrowing, osteophytes, subchondral sclerosis, and/or subchondral cysts. This patient's condition is not the result of a chronic degenerative process.

Image File: 1044-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d932d78d6.jpg

