### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Dysfunction of the temporomandibular joint** - Dysfunction of the temporomandibular joint is a syndrome that is diagnosed clinically and most commonly affects individuals 20–40 years of age. Symptoms resolve spontaneously in ∼ 40% of patients. However, if treatment is required, it focuses on behavioral therapy to avoid triggers, pain relief, and splints to prevent bruxism.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Chronic inflammation of large and medium-sized arteries** - Chronic inflammation of the large and medium-sized arteries is seen in giant cell arteritis. This condition can also present with jaw pain associated with chewing and severe headaches. However, the dull pain is usually more concentrated in the temporal region and would typically present with a hardened temporal artery and constitutional symptoms like fever and weight loss. Giant cell arteritis also fails to explain this patient's muscle spasms and cracking sound heard with jaw movement.

Image File: 1045-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94503c7c.jpg

**B - Dental abscess** - An abscess at the root of a tooth would result in pain that localizes to the mouth and seems to worsen with chewing. Pain can also localize near the ear and limit jaw opening. A dental abscess can cause fever and swelling near the affected area, neither of which is seen in this patient. This condition also fails to explain the cracking sound and headaches that this patient is experiencing.

**C - Trigeminal nerve compression** - Trigeminal nerve compression, typically caused by by an aberrant loop of the superior cerebellar artery, causes trigeminal neuralgia. The pain associated with this condition is also unilateral, worse with chewing, and involves muscles spasms. However, the pain associated with trigeminal neuralgia is classically described as 'electric shocks' that last a few seconds at a time and occur up to 100 times per day. This condition also fails to explain the cracking sound that this patient is experiencing.

Image File: 1045-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58a42b039229d.jpg

**D - Infection of the mandible** - Osteomyelitis of the jaw bone could present with difficulty opening the jaw, pain that localizes to areas similar to those seen in this patient, and normal hearing tests. However, this patient's vital signs are stable, and there has been no mention of fever, swelling, or poor dentition, which would predispose him to this condition.

**F - Chronic inflammation of the sinuses** - Inflammation of the sinuses for > 12 weeks results in chronic sinusitis. Individuals with this condition can also present with severe headaches, ear discomfort, and facial pain. However, with no history of fever, mucopurulent drainage, or nasal congestion, this diagnosis is unlikely. It also fails to explain the muscle spasms and cracking sound that this patient is experiencing.

Image File: 1045-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d927d89af.jpg

