### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Vertebral osteomyelitis** - Progressively worsening back pain that is worse at night and exacerbated by movement in a 71-year-old patient with a recent history of thrombophlebitis is suggestive of vertebral osteomyelitis. Risk factors for this condition include age > 50 years, diabetes mellitus, and recent corticosteroid therapy, all of which are seen here, as well as sickle cell anemia and injection drug use. The most common cause of vertebral osteomyelitis is hematogenous seeding of a distant infectious focus; this patient's history of thrombophlebitis is the most likely source. Other causes include a contiguous spread of infection from adjacent tissues and direct inoculation in cases of trauma or spinal procedures. Staphylococcus aureus is the most common underlying pathogen. Symptoms are usually insidious and patients might present with fever. Laboratory studies usually show significantly increased inflammatory markers (e.g., ESR).

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Spondylolisthesis** - Spondylolisthesis can manifest with back pain that worsens with exertion, similar to what is seen here. In addition, the degenerative form of this condition is more common at the L4/L5 level and in patients > 50 years of age. However, an increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate would not be expected. Moreover, affected individuals usually develop neurologic symptoms such as neurologic claudication and leg pain. Finally, expected x-ray findings include an evident slip of the vertebrae, which is not seen here.

**B - Ankylosing spondylitis** - Ankylosing spondylitis commonly manifests with progressively worsening back pain and an increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, the pain typically improves rather than worsens with activity and usually does not worsen during the night. Moreover, expected x-ray findings include loss of lordosis with increasing abnormal straightening of the spine, sclerosis of the vertebral ligamentous apparatus, and the presence of syndesmophytes (resulting in a bamboo spine), none of which are seen here. Finally, this condition is more common in people aged 15–40 years of age rather than older adults.

**C - Spinal epidural abscess** - A spinal epidural abscess (SEA) can manifest with progressively worsening back pain and spinal tenderness, similar to what is seen here. An increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate is also a common finding in patients with this condition. However, SEA commonly causes fever and neurologic deficits, including sensory changes, motor weakness, and bowel or bladder dysfunction, none of which this patient has. While this patient's x-ray findings can be associated with a spinal epidural abscess, they suggest a different diagnosis. MRI of the spine with contrast rather than plain radiography is required for the diagnosis of SEA.

**D - Metastatic prostate cancer** - Spinal metastases manifest with progressively worsening back pain that worsens during the night and spinal tenderness, similar to what is seen here. This patient's age also puts him at an increased risk of prostate cancer, which commonly metastasizes to the vertebrae, causing back pain. However, other symptoms of advanced-stage prostate cancer include urinary retention and weight loss, neither of which this patient has. Moreover, spinal metastases in prostate cancer are predominantly osteoblastic, meaning that they have a radiopaque appearance on x-ray rather than the increased radiolucency seen here.

**F - Spinal osteoarthritis** - Spinal osteoarthritis manifests with progressive back pain that worsens with activity, similar to what is seen here. In addition, this condition is more common in elderly individuals. However, in lumbar spinal osteoarthritis, the pain is more commonly localized paravertebrally and to the buttocks and the thigh due to root compression rather than over the spinous processes. Moreover, the erythrocyte sedimentation rate is usually not increased. Finally, the most typical x-ray findings in this condition are osteophytes, which is not seen here.

**G - Vertebral compression fracture** - A vertebral compression fracture manifests with back pain and localized spinal tenderness, similar to what is seen here. Patients > 70 years of age have an increased risk of developing osteoporosis, which increases the risk of developing vertebral compression fractures. However, the pain usually has an acute rather than insidious onset and is most commonly related to a minor injury. A severe increase in ESR would not be expected. Moreover, expected x-ray findings include anterior wedging with vertebral collapse and irregularity of the vertebral endplate, neither of which are seen in this patient.

