### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Serum protein electrophoresis** - Serum protein electrophoresis (SPEP) is the best initial test in patients with suspected multiple myeloma. SPEP can detect monoclonal production of a protein by a malignant plasma cell, showing a characteristic abnormal peak (M-spike) in the γ-globulin region. Subsequent serum immunofixation enables determination of the type of monoclonal protein, with most cases being due to abnormal production of IgG (50%) or IgA (25%). In patients with MM, anemia (and possibly thrombocytopenia and leukopenia) results from bone marrow infiltration by malignant plasma cells with suppression of normal hematopoiesis. Hypercalcemia is caused by increased production of osteoclast-activating factors that result in osteolysis.

Image File: 1047-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ab0d4d12f43.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bone marrow biopsy** - Bone marrow biopsy is the confirmatory test of choice in patients with suspected multiple myeloma (MM), showing ≥ 10% clonal plasma cells. While this patient's symptoms are highly suggestive of MM, bone marrow biopsy is an invasive test that is only performed after monoclonal protein production has been confirmed with the appropriate screening test.

Image File: 1047-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5911c03711ffe.jpg

**C - Hemoglobin electrophoresis** - Hemoglobin electrophoresis is used in the diagnosis of hemoglobinopathies, including thalassemias. While the homozygote form of beta-thalassemia (thalassemia major) can cause anemia, skeletal abnormalities, and pathologic fractures, as seen in this patient, the diagnosis is typically established at age 6–12 months, when affected children present with pallor, jaundice, hepatosplenomegaly (due to extramedullary hematopoiesis). Untreated children with beta-thalassemia major will die of their disease, ruling out this diagnosis in this 70-year-old. Also, rather than the punched-out lytic lesions seen on the skull x-ray in this patient, patients with beta-thalassemia major have characteristic skeletal deformities with a high forehead and prominent zygomatic bones and maxilla (chipmunk facies) due to expansion of the bone marrow.

**D - Serum vitamin D levels** - In adults, a deficiency of vitamin D causes osteomalacia, which can also present with bone pain, pathologic fractures, and elevated alkaline phosphatase (as a marker of increased bone turnover). However, unlike in this patient who presents with hypercalcemia, low levels of vitamin D would impair intestinal resorption of calcium, resulting in hypocalcemia. Furthermore, patients with osteomalacia would present with generalized low bone mineral density and thin cortices on x-ray rather than the localized osteolytic lesions seen here. Also, anemia is not a feature of osteomalacia; instead, patients typically complain of muscle weakness and difficulty walking.

**E - MRI of the spine** - An MRI of the spine can help to determine the neurologic involvement in patients with vertebral fractures. While this patient's history of a recent trauma and the severe tenderness over the second lumbar vertebra are suggestive of a vertebral fracture, the absence of neurologic symptoms (e.g., weakness, numbness, urinary incontinence) and the normal neurologic exam make spinal compression less likely. An anterior-posterior and lateral x-ray of the spine should be obtained first to assess the integrity of the vertebral column.

Image File: 1047-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d941a2848.jpg

**F - Prostate biopsy** - Prostate biopsy is used to diagnose prostate cancer (PCa), which, in an advanced stage, can present with fatigue, back pain, pathologic fractures, and bone lesion on x-ray. This patient's symptom of incomplete emptying of his bladder raises suspicion of a urinary outflow obstruction, which could be due to a benign or malignant growth. However, unlike in this patient with osteolytic skull lesions, PCa metastases are typically osteoblastic, presenting as sclerotic lesions. Moreover, because of the lack of osteolytic activity in patients with PCa, hypercalcemia is not a common laboratory finding.

Image File: 1047-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60f81b326f703.jpg

**G - Bone scan** - A bone scan can be used in the diagnosis of Paget disease of bone, which typically affects elderly men. Paget disease of bone may also present with bone pain, pathologic fractures, and osteolytic skull lesions. However, while an elevated serum alkaline phosphatase is typical, affected patients usually have a normal serum calcium rather than the hypercalcemia seen in this patient. Moreover, radiographs of patients with Paget disease of bone usually show a mixed picture of both sclerotic and osteolytic lesions, as well as a thickened calvaria. Also, this patients lacks other features of the disease, such as skull enlargement, cranial nerve deficits, or hearing loss.

Image File: 1047-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d92721579.jpg

