### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Rest and acetaminophen** - Rest and acetaminophen are the treatment of choice of a metatarsal stress fracture. Stress fractures, the incidence of which is highest amongst athletes and military recruits, typically occur when there is a sudden increase in frequency, duration, or intensity of exercise. With physical activity, the bone normally undergoes a remodeling process to counteract the mechanical stress placed on the bone. However, without adequate rest, the remodeling process is disrupted, which can lead to microfractures of the bone that may eventually coalesce to form a stress fracture. Stress fractures are usually a clinical diagnosis, but imaging can be performed when a definitive diagnosis is required. Conventional x-ray, although specific, is not very sensitive, and findings often appear normal during the first 2–3 weeks. MRI, which is both highly sensitive and specific, is the best imaging modality to confirm the diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Bone biopsy** - Bone biopsy is usually reserved for patients with suspected bone malignancies and, accordingly, inappropriate in the management of stress fractures. Point tenderness to the bone, swelling, and an antalgic gait might raise concerns for an occult bone malignancy. However, affected patients will typically also present with warning signs (such as fatigue, weight loss, or neurovascular disturbances) and/or lytic bone lesions on radiographic imaging, none of which are present in this patient.

**C - Ultrasonography** - Ultrasonography may be used in the initial evaluation of patients with stress fractures, typically showing focal hyperechoic periosteal elevation, hypervascularity, and/or cortical defects. However, ultrasonography would not be appropriate following radiographic imaging since it is unlikely to provide more conclusive findings.

**D - Technetium bone scan** - Technetium bone scan (bone scintigraphy) is a complimentary nuclear study used in the evaluation of numerous skeletal pathologies (e.g., malignancies, rheumatologic disorders, infections, etc.). Previously, this imaging modality was used in the diagnosis of occult bone fractures because it is highly sensitive and capable of detecting evidence of stress fractures 2–3 days after injury. However, this is rarely done today because the modality is not very specific.

**E - Cast immobilization** - Cast immobilization is generally not required in the management of metatarsal stress fractures. In some cases, immobilization or casting is used to augment the treatment of fifth metatarsal fractures.

**F - CT scan** - CT scan is typically performed if greater anatomical detail of the bone is needed to determine the precise location and/or extent of a suspected stress fracture. However, it is not routinely performed to evaluate or confirm the diagnosis of a stress fracture.

**G - Internal fixation** - Internal fixation is generally performed in open, unstable, or severely displaced fractures. Initial therapy of stress fractures is typically conservative, and surgical management is reserved for refractory cases. The exception is fifth metatarsal stress fractures, which are often managed surgically, either immediately or with delayed union. This patient, with a third metatarsal stress fracture, does not require surgical fixation at this time.

