### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Septic arthritis** - Septic arthritis in neonates and young infants typically initially manifests with nonspecific features (irritability, poor feeding, fever, sleeping more than usual, lethargy), and symptoms of joint involvement can be subtle (e.g., crying when the diaper is changed, unilateral swelling of the buttock, inability to bear weight). Common findings suggestive of bacterial coxitis include tenderness of the hip and restricted range of motion, as seen here. The affected extremity is often flexed and externally rotated in order to decrease intraarticular pressure and alleviate pain.

Bacterial coxitis is an orthopedic emergency because of the risk of potentially catastrophic complications (e.g., joint destruction, septic shock, avascular necrosis) and requires prompt arthrocentesis and culture for diagnosis. Treatment consists of simultaneous parenteral antibiotic therapy (e.g., vancomycin, cefazolin) and evacuation of purulent material (e.g., drainage, lavage, or debridement).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Avascular necrosis of the femoral head** - Although avascular necrosis of the femoral head manifests with groin pain, restricted range of motion, and tenderness of the hip, systemic symptoms, such as fever and lethargy, and swelling of the buttock are not expected findings. Note that avascular necrosis can be a complication of the condition seen in this patient.

**B - Deep cellulitis** - Deep cellulitis can manifest with fever, pain, tenderness, and swelling of the affected area (e.g., buttock). However, deep cellulitis is characterized by poorly defined, indurated, and erythematous lesions. Moreover, additional findings such as lymphangitis, bullae, and/or purulent exudate are commonly seen. Deep cellulitis may precede the condition seen in this patient.

**C - Developmental dysplasia of the hip** - Developmental dysplasia of the hip is characterized by hip instability, subluxation/dislocation of the femoral head, and/or acetabular dysplasia in a developing hip joint. However, this condition is typically asymptomatic in a child aged < 6 months and is generally not associated with systemic findings such as fever and lethargy.

**E - Transient synovitis** - Transient synovitis is a common cause of acute hip pain in children and is more commonly seen in boys than girls. Moreover, a flexed externally rotated hip, tenderness to palpation, and a limited range of motion of the affected hip are typical findings. However, this condition is not associated with systemic symptoms such as fever and lethargy. Furthermore, transient synovitis most commonly affects children aged between 4 and 10 years.

