### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Intravenous zoledronate** - Bisphosphonates are the mainstay of treatment for symptomatic Paget disease, as they inhibit osteoclastic activity, limiting bone resorption and disease progression. IV zoledronate is the preferred bisphosphonate in patients with no contraindication to its use (renal insufficiency), as it is very effective, is administered as a single IV dose, and has the most sustained response (if necessary, treatment is administered once again 5 years after the initial dose) compared to oral bisphosphonates. The aim of treatment of Paget disease is to limit the excessive bone remodeling and ease the pain. There is currently no cure.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Parathyroidectomy** - Parathyroidectomy is the definitive treatment for primary hyperparathyroidism. Osteitis fibrosa cystica (brown tumor) can occur in patients with severe disease and may present with dental malocclusion. Hyperparathyroidism also causes ↑ ALP and nonspecific bone pains, like in this patient. However, headaches and hearing loss are not features of hyperparathyroidism. Serum PTH and calcium levels would also be elevated in the case of hyperparathyroidism, making it an unlikely cause of her symptoms and ↑ ALP.

Image File: 1059-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6011a18d31410.jpg

**B - Hematopoietic cell transplantation** - Hematopoietic cell transplantation after induction chemotherapy is the recommended treatment for symptomatic multiple myeloma (MM). Skeletal manifestations of MM include osteopenia and osteolytic lesions, but not skeletal expansion, as seen in this patient with enlarged maxillary processes causing dental malocclusion. Moreover, elevated ALP is uncommon in patients with MM, and if elevated should raise suspicion of a pathological fracture. Finally, anemia and hypercalcemia are commonly seen in MM but are absent in this patient.

Image File: 1059-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91f78906.jpg

**C - Radiation therapy** - Radiation therapy is a treatment option for skeletal metastases. Although skeletal metastases can present with deformities of the skull and elevated ALP, like in this patient, x-ray of the skull would show well-defined sclerotic/lytic lesions and not the diffuse cortical thickening seen here. Patients also typically have hypercalcemia, and skeletal metastases causing bilateral hearing loss are unlikely.

**D - Transsphenoidal hypophysectomy** - Transsphenoidal hypophysectomy is the surgical treatment of choice for a resectable pituitary adenoma secreting growth hormone, which results in acromegaly. Patients with acromegaly may present with enlargement of facial bones (resulting in malocclusion of the teeth), headaches (due to an intracranial mass), nonspecific bone pains, and elevated serum ALP (due to increased bone growth), like this patient. However, there would be a diffuse enlargement of the bones in acromegaly (e.g., of the hands, feet, mandible) rather than localized bony growths. In addition, a cranial x-ray of a patient with acromegaly would show frontal bossing and enlargement of the bones but not sclerotic and lytic lesions, which are seen on this patient's x-ray.

**E - Surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy** - Surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy is the treatment of choice for osteosarcoma of the skull, which can present with dental malocclusion and elevated ALP. Although osteosarcoma is the most common malignant bone tumor and can occur spontaneously or as a complication of Paget's disease, the cranial x-ray in osteosarcoma would show a localized lesion with mixed radiodense and radiolucent areas, loss of trabecular pattern, Codman triangle, and destruction of the cortex of the affected bone (the maxilla, in this case). However, this patient has bilateral maxillary swellings and no features of osteosarcoma on the cranial x-ray.

**G - Estrogen replacement therapy** - Estrogen replacement therapy is a treatment option for postmenopausal patients with osteoporosis resistant to first-line therapy with bisphosphonates. Estrogen physiologically prevents bone breakdown by stimulating osteoblasts and inhibiting osteoclasts. Primary osteoporosis is seen in postmenopausal women, like this patient, due to the decrease in estrogen levels. Osteoporosis is typically asymptomatic, and although patients with osteoporosis have ↑ ALP and normal serum calcium, like in this case scenario, x-rays would show increased radiolucency of the bones. Osteoporosis does not cause cortical thickening or sclerosis of the bones.

