### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Pain control and rest** - This patient has patellofemoral pain syndrome, one of the most common diagnoses in sports medicine. This condition is thought to be caused by multiple factors, including overuse and malalignment of the knee joint. The treatment of PFP includes pain control and rest during the acute phase and risk factor management during the recovery phase. Accordingly, the most appropriate next step in management for this patient includes analgesia (e.g., NSAIDs, applications of ice packs) and avoidance of pain-inducing activities. In the recovery phase, physical therapy (e.g., quadriceps strengthening) is recommended.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Physical therapy** - Physical therapy (e.g., quadriceps strengthening, stretching exercises) is recommended for the long-term treatment (i.e., the recovery phase) of patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFP). This patient, who has a 2-day history of knee pain, is currently in the acute phase of PFP and should be treated with a different approach.

**C - Arthroscopy of the knee** - Arthroscopy of the knee is useful for diagnosing and treating intraarticular causes of knee pain, such as meniscal injury and cruciate ligament tears. However, these conditions usually develop secondary to acute trauma and manifest with joint instability on examination. This patient has patellofemoral pain syndrome, an extraarticular condition for which arthroscopy is not indicated.

**D - MRI of the knee** - Patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFP) is a clinical diagnosis. In this patient with typical manifestations of PFP and no findings that suggest an alternative diagnosis (e.g., recent trauma, joint instability, joint effusion), imaging studies are not indicated as part of the initial management. However, in patients with persistent symptoms after a period of appropriate conservative therapy (1–2 months) imaging studies should be obtained to exclude other pathologies.

**E - Synovial fluid analysis** - Arthrocentesis with synovial fluid analysis is used to evaluate patients for intraarticular conditions, such as septic arthritis and gout. However, this patient's knee pain is most consistent with a diagnosis of patellofemoral pain syndrome, which is an extraarticular condition. She does not have manifestations of intraarticular pathology (e.g., erythema, joint effusion, local warmth). Synovial fluid analysis is, therefore, not indicated.

**F - Intraarticular steroid injection** - Intraarticular steroid injection is not known to improve the symptoms of patellofemoral pain syndrome and is, therefore, not the most appropriate next step in management for this patient. This treatment is more appropriate for patients with inflammatory arthritis (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis or activated osteoarthritis), which typically causes erythema, joint effusion, and local warmth.

**G - X-ray of the knee** - Patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFP) is a clinical diagnosis. In this patient with typical manifestations of PFP and no findings that suggest an alternative diagnosis (e.g., recent trauma, joint instability, joint effusion), imaging studies are not indicated as part of the initial management. However, in patients with persistent symptoms after a period of appropriate conservative therapy (1–2 months) imaging studies should be obtained to exclude other pathologies.

