### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Surgical repair** - Surgical repair is indicated in acute, full-thickness traumatic rotator cuff tears, especially in physically active patients; a delay in surgical repair can lead to significant muscle atrophy and tendon retraction and can worsen surgical outcomes. In elderly patients or those with a high surgical risk, conservative management (e.g., physical therapy, corticosteroid injections, topical analgesia) is recommended over surgical repair; in these patients, surgery might be considered if conservative measures fail.

Image File: 1067-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f9a5bec3ee67.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Immobilization of the right shoulder** - Immobilization of the shoulder with a shoulder sling is generally indicated in the management of nondisplaced clavicular and humeral fractures, as well as type I and II acromioclavicular separations. This patient has a traumatic rotator cuff tear, which requires further management to reduce the risk of significant muscle atrophy and tendon retraction.

**B - Arthrocentesis of the right shoulder** - Arthrocentesis of the shoulder is indicated when synovial fluid analysis is required to rule out pathologies such as joint infection (septic arthritis) or crystal-induced arthropathy (e.g., gout, pseudogout), both of which also manifest with shoulder pain, swelling, and tenderness on palpation. However, this patient has no fever (making infection less likely) and no imaging findings consistent with pseudogout (e.g., degenerative changes). Furthermore, the shoulder is not typically affected in gout. This patient most likely has a rotator cuff tear, for which arthrocentesis is not indicated.

**D - X-ray of the right shoulder** - An x-ray of the shoulder can be used as an initial diagnostic tool for rotator cuff tears, which manifest with superior displacement of the humeral head. Furthermore, an x-ray of the shoulder also helps to rule out other shoulder pathologies (e.g., calcific tendonitis, degenerative changes). This patient, however, has already had an MRI that indicates a full-thickness rotator cuff tear.

Image File: 1067-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5953c8e823c88.jpg

**E - Reassurance** - Reassurance is indicated in patients with simple muscle strains. This patient with a suspected traumatic rotator cuff tear on examination requires further management to reduce the risk of significant muscle atrophy and tendon retraction.

**F - Biopsy of the right humerus** - Biopsy of the humerus is indicated for patients with suspected bone tumors (e.g., osteosarcoma), which also manifest with swelling and shoulder pain. This patient, however, has no other features of bone tumors (e.g., palpable shoulder mass, shoulder pain worsening at night, B symptoms). Moreover, this patient's MRI shows no evidence of a tumor.

