### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Administer Tdap only** - In a 14-year-old patient with a clean, minor wound and an unknown immunization history, active immunization with Tdap is required. If the wound was neither clean or minor, Tdap should otherwise be combined with TIG. (See table “Tetanus prophylaxis after injury”)

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer DTaP only** - DTaP is the vaccine preparation of choice for the primary immunization schedule as well as for postexposure prophylaxis in children between the ages of 6 weeks and 7 years. In a 14-year-old patient with a clean, minor wound and an unknown immunization history, active immunization is required. However, a different preparation suited for active immunization in older children is required, since DTaP is not indicated for postexposure prophylaxis in children older than 7 years of age.

**B - Intravenous metronidazole** - Metronidazole is effective against anaerobic bacteria, including Clostridium tetani, which causes tetanus. Intravenous metronidazole is used along with tetanus immunoglobulin (TIG) to treat acute tetanus infection. Metronidazole does not play a role in postexposure prophylaxis.

**D - Administer Tdap and TIG** - A combination of TIG and Tdap is used for postexposure prophylaxis in individuals with an unknown immunization history who have wounds that are neither clean nor minor. TIG is not indicated for clean wounds, as is the case with this patient.

**E - Administer TIG only** - TIG is used for postexposure prophylaxis in combination with active immunization in individuals with an unknown immunization history who have wounds that are neither clean nor minor. TIG is not indicated for clean wounds, nor should it be administered alone (i.e., only passive immunization) in any patient older than 6 weeks of age.

**F - No further steps are necessary** - Tetanus has a high mortality rate (10%) even with early, aggressive treatment. Therefore, prevention of tetanus via postexposure prophylaxis is always required in a patient with any wound and an unknown immunization history. If a patient has a clean, minor wound and had received ≥ 3 tetanus toxoid doses with the last dose less than 10 years ago, no further steps would be required

