### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - 100** - Number needed to harm (NNH) = 1 / (attributable risk) = 1 / (intracerebral hemorrhage risk among tPA group - intracerebral hemorrhage risk in control group) = 1 / [(12/200) - (25/500)] = 1/.01 = 100

100 patients treated with tPA will result in 1 patient treated with tPA to suffer from a symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - 6** - This calculation is based on the risk of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage in the tPA group (12/200 = 0.06). In order to compare the two groups, the correct equation must also consider the risk of symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage in the control group.

**B - 0.01** - This calculation is the attributable risk, which is the inverse of the number needed to harm - the statistical measure of interest. Logically, it is impossible for 0.01 patients to be treated with tPA in order for one tPA recipient to experience a symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage, meaning that more patients will have an intracerebral hemorrhage than receive tPA.

**C - 188** - This is the number of patients in the tPA group that did not experience a hemorrhage. The correct equation focuses on those afflicted with an intracerebral hemorrhage and also account for both the tPA and the control groups.

**D - 13** - This is the difference in symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage cases between the tPA group and control group. This calculation is incorrect because it doesn't account for the size difference between the tPA group compared to the control group. A much greater number of patients did not receive tPA.

**E - 1.2** - This value approximates the odds ratio. Although an odds ratio is useful in case-control studies and quantifies risk, the resulting calculation is the odds of intracerebral hemorrhage between two groups. Instead, the intended result for this question is in units of people.

