### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Incision and drainage** - Incision and drainage are indicated for larger (≥ 2 cm) auricular hematomas < 7 days old. Timely drainage of the hematoma prevents the formation of a cauliflower ear, which this patient already has in the left ear. A draining wick and mattress suture or compression dressing should be placed after the evacuation of an auricular hematoma and a 7–10 day course of levofloxacin administered as prophylaxis against infection with skin flora or Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Patients should be followed up daily to assess for reaccumulation of the hematoma or signs of infection and can return to sports after 7 days if the hematoma does not reaccumulate.

Image File: 1070-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5272a95b8c89a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Needle aspiration** - Needle aspiration is indicated for the management of small (< 2 cm) auricular hematomas in patients who present < 2 days after injury. This patient presented 3 days after developing an auricular hematoma measuring 3 cm and, therefore, requires a different form of management.

**B - Surgical excision** - While surgical excision of scar tissue could help to cosmetically improve this patient's left cauliflower ear, another intervention is required to prevent the auricular hematoma in the right ear from leading to the development of a cauliflower ear.

**C - Antibiotic therapy** - Antibiotic therapy with levofloxacin for 7–10 days is indicated in older adolescents and adults undergoing invasive treatment for an auricular hematoma, or in patients with signs of an infected auricular hematoma. This patient has not received any form of invasive treatment and has no signs of infection (e.g., pus, fever, severe tenderness).

**E - Analgesics and close observation only** - Analgesics and close observation alone are not sufficient for the management of auricular hematomas. As most individuals who develop auricular hematomas are involved in some sort of contact sport and frequently experience injury, they may not see the need to seek medical attention. Untreated auricular hematomas are associated with the formation of cauliflower ears, as the hematoma separates the perichondrium from the cartilage and removes the blood supply, leading to cartilage ischemia and necrosis with subsequent irreversible fibrosis.

