### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Cerebral venous thrombosis** - Cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) is a condition of impaired blood drainage from the brain due to thrombosis of cerebral veins or the dural sinus, which can lead to tissue ischemia. CVT can cause manifestations of increased intracranial pressure (e.g., headache, altered mental status, papilledema, focal neurologic deficits) as seen in this case. Risk factors for the development of CVT include hypercoagulability (e.g., due to oral contraceptive use, pregnancy, and the puerperium), malignancy, and infection. In particular, local infections of the sinuses, mouth, face, neck, and/or ears (like this patient's recent episode of acute otitis media) can precipitate CVT. An increased serum concentration of D-dimer, which is a fibrin degradation product produced during clot breakdown, supports a diagnosis of CVT. Urgent imaging studies are required to confirm the diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Hypertensive emergency** - Hypertensive emergency is defined as an acute increase in blood pressure > 180/120 mm Hg with manifestations of end-organ damage, which can include neurologic symptoms such as headache, blurry vision, and papilledema. This patient's blood pressure is 148/95 mm Hg and thus does not meet the threshold for hypertensive emergency. In addition, hypertensive emergency does not cause fever or focal neurologic deficits and would not typically result in increased serum concentrations of fibrin degradation products (e.g., D-dimer).

**C - Subarachnoid hemorrhage** - Subarachnoid hemorrhage can cause headache, nausea, fever (from blood irritating the meninges), and focal neurologic deficits (as a result of mass effect). Though some patients with this condition can have a prodromal headache due to sentinel leak, the characteristic manifestation of subarachnoid hemorrhage is a sudden-onset, severely painful headache (i.e., thunderclap headache), which this patient does not have. Papilledema, as seen in this case, is uncommon. In addition, subarachnoid hemorrhage does not cause increased serum concentrations of fibrin degradation products (e.g., D-dimer).

**D - Migraine headache** - Migraine headache can cause visual disturbances (e.g., blurry vision, photopsia, distorted color perception) and nausea. In severe cases, focal neurologic deficits can be present. However, migraine headache does not cause fever, papilledema, or increased serum concentrations of fibrin degradation products (e.g., D-dimer) as seen in this case.

**E - Idiopathic intracranial hypertension** - Idiopathic intracranial hypertension can cause headache, visual disturbances (e.g., transient vision loss, photopsia), nausea, bilateral papilledema, and focal neurologic deficits. However, idiopathic intracranial hypertension does not cause fever or increased serum concentrations of fibrin degradation products (e.g., D-dimer) as seen in this case.

**F - Viral meningitis** - Viral meningitis can cause fever, nausea, and manifestations of increased intracranial pressure (e.g., headache, altered mental status, papilledema, focal neurologic deficits). However, this condition does not cause increased serum concentrations of fibrin degradation products (e.g., D-dimer).

