### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Physical therapy** - Physical therapy is the most appropriate next step in management for this patient with neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome. Therapy exercises should focus on strengthening shoulder muscles, stretching, and postural correction while sitting and standing in order to reduce pressure on the neurovascular structures in the thoracic outlet. Adjunctive therapies include NSAIDs for analgesia and weight reduction. If conservative treatment fails, thoracic outlet decompression surgery may be considered.

Image File: 1079-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ac65940b247.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Upper trunk decompression** - Upper trunk decompression is used in the treatment of upper trunk brachial plexus compression, which typically causes Erb palsy and manifests with pain and paresthesia. However, the paresthesia usually develops along the lateral aspects of the arm, forearm, and/or hand (C5–C6 dermatomes), not the 4th and 5th digits. Moreover, patients with Erb palsy typically present with an internally rotated and adducted arm, extended forearm, and a flexed wrist (“waiter's tip posture”), none of which is present in this patient.

Image File: 1079-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6086b8e93715b.jpg

**B - Epidural glucocorticoid injection** - Epidural glucocorticoid injections can be used to treat cervical radiculopathy, which typically manifests with pain, weakness, and paresthesia in the distribution of affected nerve roots. If the C8–T1 spinal roots are affected, pain and paresthesia develop in the 4th and 5th digits. However, patients with cervical radiculopathy will have an improvement in their symptoms with overhead arm elevation, and the Roos stress test is typically negative. Although an epidural glucocorticoid injection might relieve this patient's pain, it is not the next most appropriate step in management.

**C - Elbow immobilization at night** - Elbow immobilization is used in the treatment of cubital tunnel syndrome, which can manifest with paresthesia in the 4th and 5th digits. However, patients with cubital tunnel syndrome do not have pain or heaviness in the arm that worsens when raised above the shoulders. In addition, this condition is associated with a positive Tinel test, which this patient does not have.

**D - Volar splinting** - Volar splinting can be employed in the treatment of carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS), which typically manifests with pain and paresthesia in the hand and can worsen with prolonged overhead hand elevation (positive hand elevation test). However, median nerve compression causes paresthesia in the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd digits, rather than the 4th and 5th digits. Moreover, this patient's upper arm pain and positive Roos stress test are not consistent with CTS.

Image File: 1079-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cab5e55410a6.jpg

