### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Sensitivity of 95/100** - High sensitivity (epidemiology) is the most important characteristic of an avian influenza screening test during an outbreak. The most important characteristic of a test depends on the consequences of a false positive or false negative result. For the screening test above, and indeed for most screening tests, the priority is to detect as many affected patients as possible. The risk of a false positive result (which is related to specificity) is therefore less important than minimizing the amount of false negatives. In a test with high sensitivity, a negative test result helps to rule out disease.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Sensitivity of 98/100** - The sensitivity (epidemiology) of a test refers to its true positive rate. It is calculated by dividing the number of patients with the disease who screened positive by the total number of diseased patients. The sensitivity of the test above is not 98%.

**B - Negative predictive value of 95/97** - The negative predictive value (NPV) is the probability that a patient who screens negative for the disease truly does not have the disease. It is calculated by dividing the number of disease-free patients who screened negative by the total number of people who screened negative. The NPV for the test in question is not 95/97.

**C - Positive predictive value of 96/101** - The positive predictive value (PPV) is the likelihood that a patient who screens positive actually has the disease. It is calculated by dividing the number of people with the disease who screened positive by the total number of people that screened positive. The PPV of the test in question is not 96/101.

**D - Negative predictive value of 98/103** - The negative predictive value (NPV) is the probability that a patient who screens negative for the disease truly does not have the disease. This measure is affected by the prevalence of disease in the overall population. Although it has been correctly calculated as 98/103, NPV is not the most important characteristic of a screening test.

**E - Specificity of 95/100** - The specificity of a test refers to its true negative rate. It is calculated by dividing the number of disease-free patients who screened negative by the total number of disease-free patients. The specificity of the test above is not 95%.

**F - Positive predictive value of 95/97** - The positive predictive value (PPV) is the likelihood that a patient who screens positive actually has the disease. This measure is affected by the prevalence of disease in the overall population. Although it has been correctly calculated as 95/97, PPV is not the most important characteristic for a screening test.

**G - Specificity of 98/100** - Specificity refers to a test's true negative rate. Specificity is more important for confirmatory tests (where the purpose is to arrive at an unequivocal diagnosis) than for screening tests (where the purpose is to detect as many affected patients as possible). Although it has been correctly calculated as 98/100, specificity is not the most important characteristic for a screening test.

