### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Alzheimer disease** - Alzheimer disease, which typically first affects the temporal and parietal lobes, is the most common cause of slowly progressive memory loss. Temporal lobe degeneration results in memory loss (misplaced keys, leaving the stove on) and language deficits (word-finding difficulties), whereas parietal lobe degeneration results in spatial navigation problems (getting lost during walks outside), all of which this patient exhibits.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Normal pressure hydrocephalus** - NPH is characterized by the triad of urinary incontinence, gait instability, and memory loss (“wet, wobbly, and wacky”). Although this patient has significant memory loss, she lacks the other features of the triad, making this diagnosis less likely. Neuroimaging would show enlarged ventricles.

**B - Lewy-body dementia** - Lewy-body dementia is characterized by dementia with visual hallucinations and parkinsonism (e.g., tremor, rigidity). Although this patient has cognitive decline, she lacks the visual hallucinations or motor symptoms that are commonly found with Lewy-body dementia.

**C - Frontotemporal dementia** - Frontotemporal dementia is characterized by early, selective degeneration of the frontal and temporal lobes. Frontal lobe degeneration results in behavioral and personality changes (e.g., apathy, compulsive eating, disinhibition), and temporal lobe degeneration causes memory loss. Although this patient has memory issues, she lacks any of the classic findings of frontal lobe degeneration. Neuroimaging in early stages would show selective atrophy of the frontal and temporal lobes, not global atrophy.

**D - Pseudodementia** - Pseudodementia is characterized by reversible cognitive impairment due to severe depression. This patient lacks any mood symptoms (sadness, anhedonia, irritability) that would suggest depression. Also, those with pseudodementia usually express concern about their memory impairments, unlike this patient who says she is unconcerned with the memory lapses.

**E - Vascular dementia** - This patient's hypertension and hypercholesterolemia increase her risk for vascular dementia. However, the cognitive decline of vascular dementia occurs in a step-wise fashion, in which the patient's cognition remains stable for a certain period, and then declines again after another vascular event. In contrast, this patient exhibited a slowly progressive deterioration. Neuroimaging would show focal areas of cerebral atrophy from infarction and ischemic white matter changes.

**F - Creutzfeld-Jakob disease** - Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is characterized by rapidly progressive dementia (decline that develops over weeks to months), ataxia, and startle myoclonus. Although this patient is suffering from dementia, her decline has progressed over years and she lacks the classic feature of startle myoclonus.

**G - Normal aging** - Certain cognitive declines are expected with normal aging, such as slowing of cognitive processing speed and issues with memory retrieval. In dementia, however, cognitive deficits exceed those of normal aging and impair the actions of daily living. Since the patient's cognitive declines impair her daily life (i.e., inability to cook safely at home, navigate her neighborhood), they are pathologic and more severe than what would be expected with normal aging.

