### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Histrionic personality disorder** - According to DSM-5, a diagnosis of histrionic personality disorder is made in patients with a pervasive pattern of seeking attention and exaggerated emotionality that meets ≥ 5 of the following 8 criteria: inappropriate seductive behavior, the use of physical appearance to draw attention to oneself, considering relationships to be more intimate than they actually are, discomfort when the individual is not the center of attention, emotional lability, theatricality, impressionistic speech, suggestibility (i.e., easily influenced by others). This patient meets the first 6 criteria.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Schizoid personality disorder** - Individuals with schizoid personality disorder would not show inappropriately sexual behavior or emotional lability. On the contrary, they shun close relationships, have little interest in sexual experiences, appear indifferent to praise or criticism of others, and show restricted affect.

**B - Narcissistic personality disorder** - Individuals with narcissistic personality disorder (NPD) may exhibit attention-seeking behavior. However, such behavior would stem from a desire for admiration rather than from a need of reassurance or approval. Patients with NPD show a relative lack of emotional display rather than emotional vulnerability. Also, other personality traits would be expected, such as an excessive sense of self-importance, exaggeration of achievements, grandiosity, arrogance, a lack of empathy, and/or envy.

**C - Dependent personality disorder** - Patients with dependent personality disorder might visit the physician frequently because they seek support and reassurance. However, they would typically behave timidly and politely rather than flirtatiously and flamboyantly as this patient. Patients with dependent personality disorder tend to have difficulty making everyday decisions and often require to take over responsibility for them.

**E - Borderline personality disorder** - Patients with borderline personality disorder may exhibit attention-seeking or manipulative behavior, rapidly shifting emotions, intense interpersonal relationships that alternate between extreme idealization and extreme devaluation, and a fear of abandonment. However, essential components of borderline personality disorder are a negative self-image and self-destructive behavior (including self-harm or suicide attempts), which are absent in this patient.

**F - Schizotypal personality disorder** - Individuals with schizotypal personality disorder (SPD) might dress and behave eccentrically. However, using physical appearance to garner attention is untypical for individuals with this disorder. On the contrary, an impaired capacity for developing social and interpersonal relationships are common. Moreover, individuals with schizotypal personality disorder typically have superstitious beliefs and/or magical thinking.

