### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Lumbar puncture** - A lumbar puncture should be performed in all clinically stable neonates with suspected meningitis or signs of sepsis and no signs of increased intracranial pressure. CSF analysis can confirm the diagnosis and guide antibiotic treatment. Until the results of the CSF analysis are available, patients should be treated with empiric antibiotic therapy (e.g., ampicillin plus gentamicin and/or cefotaxime in patients < 1 month old).

Image File: 1084-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60eff5f4295e8.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - MRI of the head** - An MRI scan of the head is used in the diagnosis of various central nervous system conditions, including such of infectious etiology. However, since MRI scans require that patients not move for an extended period of time, children are typically sedated during the procedure. It is therefore not the preferred imaging modality in acutely ill pediatric patients.

**B - Serum procalcitonin level** - Although studies have suggested that bacterial and viral meningitis can be distinguished based on serum procalcitonin levels, there is no conclusive evidence for this hypothesis. Currently, serum procalcitonin are not routinely measured in the diagnosis of meningitis, which is suspected in this patient.

**C - Reassurance** - The onset of fever, irritability, jaundice, and poor feeding in a neonate are highly suggestive of a severe disease. Reassurance would result in lack or delay of adequate treatment, leading to further complications.

**D - Urine culture** - Urine culture is performed to diagnose urinary tract infections (UTIs). In neonates, a UTI may also present with unspecific symptoms such as fever, irritability, and poor feeding. If urosepsis develops, it can also lead to meningitis. Urine cultures would only be indicated in case of abnormal urinalysis, which has a high sensitivity for UTI. The first priority in this acutely ill child is to assess him for meningitis and to initiate empiric treatment.

**E - CT scan of the head** - In patients with suspected meningitis and signs of elevated intracranial pressure (e.g., seizure, papilledema) a CT scan is typically performed prior to a lumbar puncture, as performing a lumbar puncture in a patient with elevated ICP can lead to brain herniation and death. However, this patient does not present with features suggestive of increased intracranial pressure (e.g., coma, papilledema, focal neurologic deficit) that would prompt a CT scan. In addition, a CT scan would not be the imaging method of choice in a neonate.

**G - X-ray of the chest** - An x-ray of the chest is a first-line diagnostic method upon suspicion of lower respiratory tract infections (e.g., pneumonia). However, this patient does not have any clinical features (e.g., signs of respiratory distress) that suggest this diagnosis.

