### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Oxygen toxicity** - This premature infant likely received supplemental oxygen at birth, which is a major contributing factor in the development of ROP. Higher arterial oxygen tension in a premature infant inhibits the production of VEGF, leading to apoptosis of endothelial cells and cessation of normal retinal vascular formation. Switching to room air results in relative hypoxia due to the lower oxygen concentration, increased metabolic demand of the growing retina, and poor vascular network, leading to the production of proangiogenic growth factors (e.g., VEGF) and uncontrolled neovascularization. The formation of new blood vessels can cause hemorrhages, form fibrovascular membranes, and ultimately lead to retinal detachment or blindness.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Retinal malignancy** - Retinoblastoma is an important cause of ocular disease in infants and is caused by mutations in the RB1 tumor suppressor gene that are often inherited. However, this patient has no family history of malignancy and the ophthalmologic findings are not consistent with retinoblastoma.

**C - Glucocorticoid deficiency** - Glucocorticoid deficiency is associated with an increased risk of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome, as glucocorticoids play a vital role in promoting fetal lung maturity by stimulating the production of surfactant. However, glucocorticoid deficiency is not a risk factor for the development of ROP.

**D - Hyperglycemia** - Maternal diabetes may lead to a wide range of complications in the infant, including macrosomia, respiratory distress, hyperbilirubinemia, and congenital cardiac anomalies. Maternal diabetes also increases the risk of prematurity, which is the greatest risk factor for ROP. While this infant's prematurity may be related to maternal diabetes, there is another factor that more directly contributes to the development of ROP.

**E - Syphilis infection** - Syphilis is one of several congenital infections (TORCH infections) that can cause ocular abnormalities in affected infants. Congenital syphilis can manifest with uveitis, keratitis, glaucoma, and congenital cataracts. However, this infant's fundoscopy findings are highly indicative of ROP, and, although infection may worsen the course of ROP, it is not a contributing factor to the development of this condition.

**F - Non-accidental trauma** - Head trauma as a result of rotational and shearing forces can cause shaken baby syndrome. This condition manifests with retinal and intracranial hemorrhages but does not contribute to the development of ROP.

**G - Chlamydia infection** - Mothers receiving routine prenatal care are screened for chlamydia infection to eliminate the risk of chlamydial conjunctivitis in the newborn. This mother's lack of prenatal care puts the infant at risk of this disease, which often manifests 1–2 weeks after birth. However, ocular findings include mucopurulent or watery discharge, eyelid swelling, and chemosis. This disease does not affect the retina.

