### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Vertical nystagmus** - Vertical or rotatory nystagmus on neurologic examination is considered abnormal in all age groups and warrants immediate investigation. Causes for vertical nystagmus include vestibular conditions (e.g., anterior and posterior semicircular canal BPPV), severe alcohol intoxication, drug side effects (e.g., phencyclidine, lithium, carbamazepine, phenytoin), Wernicke encephalopathy, and CNS lesions (e.g., bilateral internuclear ophthalmoplegia in multiple sclerosis, cerebellar lesions). In contrast, although horizontal nystagmus is most frequently pathological, it can occur physiologically (e.g., end-gaze nystagmus) in all age groups. Other neurophthalmological findings considered normal in elderly patients (especially those aged over 80 years) are sluggish convergence, sluggish pupillary reflex, decreased upward gaze (while lateral and downward movements usually remain intact), and impaired accommodation (presbyopia).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - High-frequency hearing loss** - High-frequency, progressive, bilateral hearing loss in an elderly patient suggests presbycusis, which affects more than 50% of individuals at the age of 75 years, with increasing prevalence in older age groups. This condition is caused by age-related damage to hair cells at the base of the cochlea. Although otoscopy and audiometry would eventually be indicated to establish the diagnosis, high-frequency hearing loss is an expected finding in elderly patients and does not require immediate investigation.

**C - Decreased vibration sensation in the great toe** - A decreased sensation of vibration in the distal lower extremities is common in elderly patients. It can be attributed to the age-related degeneration of distal sensory axons and does not require immediate investigation if it is an isolated finding. Further diagnostic workup is indicated if the decreased sensation of vibration occurs alongside additional signs and symptoms (e.g., signs of ischemia, ulcers, loss of reflexes, concomitant involvement of upper extremities, changes to other types of sensation).

**D - Decreased sense of smell** - Decreased sense of smell (hyposmia) is a common finding in elderly patients, affecting more than 60% of individuals aged ≥ 80 years. This finding can be attributed to the age-related degeneration of olfactory neurons. The isolated finding of hyposmia/anosmia in an elderly patient does not require immediate investigation. Hyposmia in patients < 60 years of age should raise concern for an underlying disease (e.g., Parkinson disease) and further diagnostic workup might be indicated.

**E - Absent ankle jerk reflexes** - Diminished or absent ankle jerk reflexes are a common finding in elderly patients. This finding can be attributed to the age-related degeneration of distal sensory axons, which results in diminished or absent deep tendon reflexes. The isolated finding of absent ankle jerk reflexes in an elderly patient does not require immediate investigation. Further diagnostic workup is indicated if this finding occurs with additional signs and symptoms, e.g., muscle weakness, sensory changes, constitutional symptoms, asymmetry, back pain.

