### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Neuroleptic malignant syndrome** - Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a condition most commonly associated with antipsychotic use. It presents with altered mental status, fever (often > 39°C/102.2°F), diaphoresis, muscle rigidity, and tachycardia, all of which are seen in this patient. In addition, serum creatine kinase is usually more than 1000 IU/L and can be as high as 100,000 IU/L due to increased muscle activity. Leukocytosis is seen in > 70% of patients. The most important step in the treatment of this condition is discontinuation of the antipsychotic drug. Dantrolene, bromocriptine, or amantadine are frequently given due to anecdotal reports of efficacy. However, there is little empiric evidence supporting their use.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Malignant hyperthermia** - Malignant hyperthermia should be considered in patients who present with very high fever, tachycardia, muscle rigidity, and elevated creatine kinase levels shortly after exposure to inhaled anesthetics (e.g., halothane, isoflurane, sevoflurane, etc.) or succinylcholine. This patient has no history of recent anesthetic exposure.

**B - Delirium tremens** - Delirium tremens (DTs) is a condition caused by alcohol withdrawal which may lead to fever, hypertension, and altered mental status, all of which are seen in this patient. Alcohol withdrawal, however, would be unlikely in an individual who drinks only one beer per day (though there is always the possibility that patients drink more than they admit!). Furthermore, DTs would not explain this patient's diffuse muscle rigidity or hyporeflexia.

**C - Serotonin syndrome** - Serotonin syndrome is a condition that causes symptoms such as fever, altered mental status, and diaphoresis that resemble those of this patient. However, the neuromuscular symptoms seen in serotonin syndrome primarily consist of hyperreflexia, tremor, and myoclonus rather than hyporeflexia and muscle rigidity. In addition, this patient's medication profile would not predispose him to developing this condition, as it is most commonly seen in patients who take a combination of serotonergic drugs (e.g., SNRIs, TCAs, MAO inhibitors).

**D - Herpes simplex encephalitis** - Herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE) causes symptoms such as fever, leukocytosis, and altered mental status, which are also seen in this patient. However, HSE also usually presents with headaches, seizures, and, slightly less commonly, focal neurologic deficits. Moreover, it would not explain this patient's hyporeflexia, muscle rigidity, or elevated creatine kinase.

**E - Bacterial meningitis** - Bacterial meningitis presents with a combination of fever, headache, neck stiffness, leukocytosis, altered mental status, and sometimes focal neurologic findings. Though this patient has leukocytosis and altered mental status, full range of motion of the neck would be uncommon with meningitis. Additionally, bacterial meningitis would not explain his elevated creatine kinase levels, muscle rigidity, or hypertension.

**F - Systemic bacterial infection** - Systemic bacterial infection (e.g., sepsis) is a common cause of fever and altered mental status, which are the symptoms that prompted this patient's emergency room visit. Though sepsis is a common cause of tachycardia, unexplained fever, and leukocytosis, it presents with hypotension (rather than hypertension, as in this patient), and it would not explain the diffuse rigidity and hyporeflexia.

**G - Lithium toxicity** - Lithium toxicity can cause delirium and neuromuscular symptoms such as muscle fasciculations, tremor, and ataxia. Although this patient takes lithium and has altered mental status, he also presents with fever, hypertension, hyporeflexia, muscle rigidity, leukocytosis, and elevated creatine kinase levels, which are not seen in lithium toxicity.

