### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Amitriptyline** - Amitriptyline is the prophylactic treatment of choice for chronic tension headache, which is defined as episodes occurring at least 15 days per month for more than 3 months. In addition to amitriptyline, lifestyle and behavioral modification (e.g., exercise, sleep, avoiding stress) is crucial for the treatment of tension headaches. The patient has had significant stress in her life, and avoidance of stressful situations would likely help to reduce her symptoms.

Image File: 1088-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d78acef94907.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - Ergotamine** - Ergotamine is a second-line prophylactic agent for cluster headaches. Cluster headaches typically present as agonizing, periorbital pain, associated with ipsilateral autonomic symptoms, such as conjunctival injections, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, and/or partial Horner syndrome (i.e., ptosis, miosis, but no anhidrosis). This patient does not have these symptoms, making this diagnosis very unlikely.

**C - Propranolol** - Propranolol and other beta blockers are used for prophylaxis against migraines. A migraine typically presents as a unilateral, pulsating headache that is exacerbated by physical activity. It is accompanied by auras, photophobia, phonophobia, and nausea/vomiting. Migraines last usually 4–24 hours. However, this patient's headache is non-pulsating, is not affected by physical exertion, and only lasts 2 hours, making tension headache the more likely diagnosis.

**D - Aspirin** - Aspirin can be used to treat episodic tension headache, which is defined as 1–14 episodes of headache per month. However, this patient has chronic tension headache. Aspirin would be inappropriate, as it provides only temporary relief from headache. If aspirin is inappropriately used to treat chronic tension headaches, the patient may be at risk of GI bleeding and kidney disease. Furthermore, prolonged use of NSAIDs for chronic tension headache may cause medication overuse headache.

**E - Acetaminophen** - Acetaminophen can be used to treat episodic tension headache, which is defined as 1–14 episodes of headache per month. However, this patient has chronic tension headache and requests a long-term management, for which acetaminophen would not be appropriate. Acetaminophen overuse puts the patient at risk of liver injury due to its toxic metabolites. The patient would benefit from a longer-acting medication instead.

**F - Verapamil** - Verapamil is a first-line prophylactic agent for cluster headaches. Cluster headaches typically present as agonizing, periorbital pain, associated with ipsilateral autonomic symptoms, such as conjunctival injections, lacrimation, rhinorrhea, and/or partial Horner syndrome (i.e., ptosis, miosis, but no anhidrosis). This patient does not have these symptoms, making this diagnosis very unlikely.

**G - Valproate** - Valproate is sometimes used for prophylaxis against migraines. A migraine typically presents as a unilateral, pulsating headache that is exacerbated by physical activity. It is accompanied by auras, photophobia, phonophobia, and nausea/vomiting. Migraines last usually 4–24 hours. However, this patient's headache is non-pulsating, is not affected by physical exertion, and only lasts 2 hours, making tension headache the more likely diagnosis.

