### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Oral ibuprofen** - Middle ear barotrauma commonly develops during flights or while diving in patients with nasal congestion, caused by the inability of the Eustachian tube to equalize the outside pressure and the pressure in the middle ear. The excess pressure results in injury to the middle ear structures. Most cases of middle ear barotrauma and the consequent lesions (e.g., tympanic edema, hemorrhage, and rupture) have a self-limiting course with complete recovery of hearing and are managed conservatively. Analgesics, such as oral ibuprofen, can be used for pain management. Other supportive measures include nasal decongestants, antihistaminic agents, and intranasal corticosteroids. Surgical therapy (e.g., tympanoplasty) may be indicated in barotrauma with inner ear involvement, which has a higher risk of hearing impairment.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral antihistamines** - Antihistamines taken prior to a flight or dive can be used for ear barotrauma prophylaxis, because they help reduce Eustachian tube obstruction. However, antihistamines are not typically used for the treatment of existing ear barotrauma.

**B - Myringotomy** - Myringotomy may be considered for the treatment of ear barotrauma as it allows for temporary pressure equalization and fluid drainage from the middle ear. However, the tympanic incision usually heals before the ear barotrauma has fully recovered, making its use controversial. Another step is more appropriate for this patient.

**C - Oral amoxicillin** - Oral amoxicillin can be used for the treatment of acute otitis media, which commonly manifests with unilateral ear pain and conductive hearing loss, and also for the management of bacterial rhinosinusitis, which can manifest with unilateral facial pain and purulent nasal discharge. This patient has no otoscopic signs of otitis media (e.g., bulging tympanic membrane, loss of light reflex) or other characteristic findings of bacterial rhinosinusitis (e.g., fever, pressure pain over the sinuses). Middle ear barotrauma does not require antibiotic treatment.

**E - Tympanoplasty** - Tympanoplasty is a second-line option for the management of tympanic membrane perforation, which can develop as a complication of ear barotrauma. This patient's otoscopic examination shows an intact tympanic membrane, which is inconsistent with tympanic membrane perforation.

