### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Temporal lobe spikes on EEG** - This child presents with symptoms of a focal seizure with impaired awareness, which is the main presenting feature of temporal lobe epilepsy. Focal seizures are caused by structural changes or damage to the brain (e.g., encephalitis, developmental disorders) and originate in the temporal lobe of one brain hemisphere. Seizure activity is visible on EEG as temporal lobe spikes during a seizure episode.

Image File: 1090-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6058d5585ec5f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Defiant behavior towards figures of authority** - Defiant behavior towards figures of authority is a diagnostic criteria of oppositional defiant disorder. Since this boy has no history of openly defying his parents or being irritable, this diagnosis can be ruled out. His unresponsiveness towards his father can be attributed to a postictal state rather than deliberately ignoring being spoken to.

**B - Difficulty sustaining attention during tasks** - Difficulty sustaining attention is a diagnostic feature of ADHD. A child may repeatedly interrupt an activity, appear to be daydreaming, and not pay attention to instructions or when being spoken to directly. However, since consciousness is not impaired, the child's attention can easily be regained. The absence of hyperactivity and impulsivity in this boy further rule out ADHD.

**C - Impairment in communication and social interaction** - Impairment in communication and social interaction is a core feature of autism spectrum disorder. While an autistic child often prefers to be on his or her own and may ignore unwanted attempts at communication by other people, the episodes described in this case are indicative of brief impaired awareness. Since no other features of autism spectrum disorder are present (e.g., stereotyped behavior patterns, restricted interests), this diagnosis can be ruled out.

**E - Conductive hearing loss on audiometry** - Although a child with conductive hearing loss (e.g., as a complication of otitis media) may appear to be inattentive or unresponsive when spoken to, symptoms of impaired hearing would be consistently present. While this boy has brief episodes in which he appears inattentive, he generally responds normally when spoken to and shows no abnormalities on physical exam. He also has no risk factors for developing conductive hearing loss, since his episode of otitis media 1 year ago was treated adequately with antibiotics and resolved completely.

**F - Normal neurodevelopment** - While episodes of daydreaming may occur as part of normal development in children, this boy presents with symptoms that indicate an underlying condition is responsible for his behavior. Daydreaming without pathological significance is often triggered by boredom, does not occur during physical activity, can be interrupted, and is not associated with retrograde amnesia or automatisms (e.g., lip smacking).

**G - Slow spike-wave complexes on EEG** - Generalized 3 Hz spike-and-slow-wave complexes on EEG are seen in children with childhood absence epilepsy. Whereas absence seizures also manifest with brief unresponsiveness and automatisms like lip smacking, the episodes are typically shorter (5–10 seconds) than those seen in this patient, occur several times a day, and are not followed by a postictal phase.

Image File: 1090-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_549025a329259.jpg

