### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Discharge the patient** - This patient has regained normal mental status after her first simple febrile seizure, which was likely related to a viral upper respiratory syndrome. She has no history or examination findings that would suggest CNS infection (meningitis or encephalitis) and can safely be discharged with reassurance. While the exact pathophysiology of simple febrile seizures is unknown, high fever, viral infection (especially HHV-6 and influenza), a family history of febrile seizure, and recent immunization (especially DTP and MMR) are all known risk factors.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform an EEG** - EEG plays an important diagnostic role in the evaluation of patients with suspected seizure and/or epilepsy. It should be considered in patients presenting with complex febrile seizure with prolonged seizure activity or focal neurologic findings. An EEG is not warranted for this otherwise healthy patient has had a single febrile seizure, from which she recovered rapidly, and her neurological examination is normal.

**B - Begin valproic acid therapy** - Valproic acid is an anticonvulsant frequently used in the treatment of epilepsy. It can reduce the recurrence of febrile seizures but should be used with caution because of its significant adverse effect profile (e.g., thrombocytopenia, CNS depression, liver failure, etc). In this case, the benign nature of this patient's first febrile seizure make anticonvulsants unnecessary.

**C - Perform a CT scan of the head** - A head CT is indicated if an intracranial pathology (e.g., mass or bleed) is suspected. It should be considered in patients with febrile seizure who have an abnormal neurologic examination or signs of increased intracranial pressure (e.g. papilledema, macrocephaly). A cranial CT is not indicated for this patient with a simple febrile seizure, normal neurologic examination, and no history to suggest an intracranial lesion.

**D - Observe the patient for 24 hours** - Hospital admission and observation is indicated for afebrile children with first-time seizure. Observation should also be considered for patients with febrile seizure who have partial or focal seizure activity, prolonged seizure (> 15 min), delayed recovery to baseline, or postictal focal neurologic deficits. This patient had a simple febrile seizure of short duration, recovered rapidly, and had no abnormalities on neurological examination, so the risk of a seizure recurring is low.

**E - Perform a lumbar puncture** - A lumbar puncture (LP) is only recommended after a simple febrile seizure if there is a history or findings suggestive of meningitis (e.g., presence of neck stiffness, photophobia, etc). An LP can also be considered if the child is between 6–12 months of age and has not been immunized against Haemophilus influenzae or Streptococcus pneumoniae (meaning they are at increased risk of bacterial meningitis). This patient is a fully immunized 15-month-old with no history or findings to suggest a CNS infection. A LP is therefore not indicated.

**G - Administer lorazepam** - Benzodiazepines such as lorazepam are considered a first-line therapy for seizure abortion in patients presenting with prolonged seizure activity (> 5 minutes). This patient’s seizure was brief and resolved spontaneously, so lorazepam is not indicated.

