### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Cyproheptadine** - Cyproheptadine is a H1-, 5-HT1A-, and 5-HT2A-receptor antagonist and is used as first-line antidote in patients with serotonin syndrome who do not respond to supportive measures and discontinuation of the offending drug. This drug competes with the excess serotonin for receptor binding, reducing pathological overstimulation. Cyproheptadine should be used in conjunction with cooling measures (e.g., application of ice packs, cold compresses) and benzodiazepines for sedation.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Fluphenazine** - Fluphenazine is a typical high-potency antipsychotic that is used for the treatment of acute agitation in the setting of psychotic episodes. The anti-dopaminergic effects of this drug would not be helpful in the management of serotonin syndrome.

**B - Flumazenil** - Flumazenil is a selective antagonist of the GABAA-receptor and that is used in the treatment of benzodiazepine overdose. This patient does not exhibit any findings indicative of benzodiazepine overdose, which manifests as sedation and respiratory depression. Administration of flumazenil is not indicated in a patient with serotonin syndrome.

**C - Dantrolene** - Dantrolene is a ryanodine receptor antagonist that is used as the first-line treatment for malignant hyperthermia, which could explain this patient's fever and signs of autonomic hyperactivity (hypertension, tachycardia). However, malignant hyperthermia almost exclusively occurs after exposure to certain drugs, such as succinylcholine and anesthetic inhalants, and is not associated with administration of antidepressants or serotonergic agents.

**D - Octreotide** - Octreotide is a somatostatin analog that is used for symptomatic relief in patients with carcinoid syndrome. It decreases serotonin secretion and impairs peripheral conversion of serotonin to 5-HIAA. Despite these antiserotonergic properties, octreotide is not used for the treatment of serotonin syndrome, as it does not block binding of serotonin to serotonin receptors.

**F - Benztropine** - Benztropine is a muscarinic antagonist that is commonly used in the treatment of parkinsonian and extrapyramidal symptoms. Benztropine can also be used in the setting of mild neuroleptic malignant syndrome, a condition that manifests with findings very similar to those seen in this patient (e.g., autonomic hyperactivity) but without myoclonus or hyperreflexia. Because benztropine does not exhibit antiserotonergic activity, it would not be indicated in a patient with serotonin syndrome.

