### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Atrophy of the cortex** - Atrophy of the cortex of the brain (especially the medial temporal lobe structures) with narrowing of the gyri and widening of the sulci are characteristic neuroradiological findings in patients with Alzheimer disease. The ventricular dilation seen on imaging is a consequence of cerebral loss, with the ventricles expanding to fill the volume formerly occupied by the cortex. This phenomenon is known as hydrocephalus ex vacuo but unlike true hydrocephalus, there is no primary pathology of cerebrospinal fluid production or outflow in patients with Alzheimer disease. This patient's normal gait and lack of urinary symptoms are important in differentiating this presentation of Alzheimer disease from the classic presentation of hydrocephalus, given that the neuroimaging findings in both conditions are similar.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Inflammation of the choroid plexus** - Inflammation of the choroid plexus (choroid plexitis), which is most commonly caused by CNS infection (e.g., tuberculosis, cryptococcosis) can result in increased CSF production and thereby cause lateral ventricle enlargement, as seen here on the T2 weighted MRI. However, this patient does not have any clinical features of CNS infection (e.g., fever, headache, meningism) and there is no enlargement of the choroid plexus in the lateral ventricles on imaging to suggest choroid plexitis.

**C - Demyelination of periventricular structures** - Demyelination of periventricular areas is seen in multiple sclerosis and Wernicke encephalopathy. Patients affected by either of these conditions can develop irreversible memory loss and personality changes, as seen here. However, the onset of memory loss and personality changes would be preceded by a history of fatigue and episodic neurological deficits in the case of multiple sclerosis, and the triad of confusion, ataxia, and ophthalmoplegia (due to mamillary body atrophy) in the case of Wernicke encephalopathy. Furthermore, the T2 weighted MRI of this patient does not show any evidence of periventricular demyelination.

**D - Bleeding into the ventricular system** - Bleeding into the ventricular system can cause obstructive hydrocephalus and thereby result in ventricular enlargement, as seen here in the T2 weighted MRI. However, intraventricular hemorrhage usually presents acutely with a severe headache and features of raised intracranial pressure (e.g., nausea, vomiting, blurred vision), unlike this patient who presents with cognitive impairment and mood changes that have progressively worsened over the past 6 months. Furthermore, there is no radiological evidence of an intraventricular hemorrhage on this patient's MRI (e.g., mixed fluid attenuation)

**E - Obstruction of the foramen of Monro** - Obstruction of the foramen of Monro, which is typically caused by a tumor (e.g., colloid cyst), would result in unilateral (asymmetrical) lateral ventricle enlargement, unlike this patient who has symmetrical enlargement of both the lateral ventricles on the T2 weighted MRI.

