### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Paralysis of the right lower lip** - Motor control of the lower lip is provided by the marginal mandibular branch of the facial nerve. Facial nerve palsy is the most common early complication of parotidectomy, and the marginal mandibular branch of the facial nerve is one of the most commonly injured branches of the facial nerve. Most cases of post-parotidectomy facial nerve palsy resolve within one month.

Image File: 1096-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94350736.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hyperesthesia of the right ear lobe** - Sensation of the ear lobe is provided by the greater auricular nerve. Hypoesthesia, not hyperesthesia, of the greater auricular nerve is a common complication of parotidectomy due to nerve transection during surgery.

**B - Hyperacusis of the right ear** - Hyperacusis can be a symptom of facial nerve dysfunction (e.g., Bell's palsy) due to consequent weakness of the stapedius muscle. The nerve to the stapedius branches off of the facial nerve before the facial nerve exits the skull, which means that stapedius dysfunction cannot be a complication of parotidectomy.

**C - Xerostomia when eating** - The parotid gland produces ∼ 40% of the saliva and is stimulated by eating. The total amount of saliva is therefore likely to be slightly decreased after parotidectomy. However, given the continued production of saliva from the remaining salivary glands, xerostomia is not a common complication of the procedure.

**E - Impaired taste and sensation of the posterior 1/3 of the tongue** - Taste and sensation in the posterior third of the tongue is provided by the glossopharyngeal nerve. Glossopharyngeal nerve damage is not a complication of parotidectomy.

**F - Flushing and sweating of the right cheek while eating** - Flushing and sweating of the cheek while eating is characteristic of Frey's syndrome, which is a common late, not early, complication of parotidectomy. Frey's syndrome is due to inappropriate parasympathetic nerve regrowth, which is a slow process that is unlikely to cause symptoms earlier than one month after surgery.

