### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Discontinue the patient's medications** - In a patient with a history of primary headache disorder (e.g., migraine), the development of a new type of headache that occurs ≥ 15 days per month in association with overuse of headache-abortive medications (> 10–15 days per month for > 3 months) suggests medication overuse headache (MOH). The most appropriate initial approach in patients with MOH is the immediate discontinuation of the overused medication unless the medication includes opioids, barbiturates, or benzodiazepines, in which case tapered withdrawal is preferred. Supportive interventions, such as the prescription of rescue medication for severe withdrawal symptoms and initiation of long-term prophylactic medication, may also be indicated. Patient counseling on the exacerbating effects of medication overuse is recommended to help prevent recurrent episodes of MOH.

Image File: 1098-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ac2443a2dd1.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Prescribe hydrocodone** - Opioids can be used as a last resort in patients with acute migraines who do not respond to first-line medications or in those who cannot take triptans or NSAIDs (e.g., pregnant women). Although this patient has a history of migraines, she responded well to first-line medications; therefore, opioids are not indicated. Moreover, this patient's headache pattern is more suggestive of a tension-type headache, for which opioids are not used.

**C - Prescribe verapamil** - Verapamil can be used for prophylaxis of cluster headaches, which also commonly last between 30 minutes to 2 hours. However, while this patient presents with a holocranial, dull headache, cluster headaches typically manifest with a strictly unilateral, periorbital, agonizing headache that is accompanied by ipsilateral autonomic symptoms (e.g., partial Horner syndrome).

**D - Perform a temporal artery biopsy** - Temporal artery biopsy is indicated to confirm the diagnosis of giant cell arteritis (GCA), which can also manifest with a dull headache. Furthermore, neck tightness may also be seen in patients with GCA due to polymyalgia rheumatica, which is commonly associated with GCA. However, in contrast to what is seen here, patients with GCA typically present with elevated ESR (≥ 50 mm/h). Additionally, GCA also manifests with constitutional symptoms, jaw claudication, and headaches typically located over the temples, none of which are seen here.

Image File: 1098-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6040ff5ae97f9.jpg

**E - Perform pericranial botulinum toxin injections** - Pericranial botulinum toxin injections are used for prophylaxis of chronic migraine, which manifests with headaches that occur ≥ 15 times per month for ≥ 3 months, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, while this patient presents with a holocranial, dull headache that lasts from 30 minutes to 2 hours, migraine typically manifests with a unilateral, pulsating/throbbing headache that lasts 4 to 24 hours.

