### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Central retinal artery occlusion** - Central retinal artery occlusion is characterized by sudden, painless loss of vision and an afferent pupillary defect, which manifests with no perception of light in the affected eye and an abnormal swinging flashlight test, as seen in this patient. A past history of amaurosis fugax, as seen here, is also common. This patient has multiple risk factors for retinal artery disease, including diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and atherosclerosis. Along with this patient's multiple cardiovascular risk factors, a carotid bruit suggests carotid artery atherosclerosis, which can lead to the release of a thrombus and subsequent occlusion of the central retinal artery; this is the most common cause of central retinal artery occlusion.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Optic neuritis** - Optic neuritis (ON) may manifest with a sudden loss of vision and an afferent pupillary defect, both of which are seen here. ON is most commonly caused by multiple sclerosis (MS), and this patient's history of recurring loss of vision could be consistent with the relapsing course of MS. However, fundoscopy is typically unremarkable in ON; the findings seen in this patient would not be expected.

Image File: 1099-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d941dcecc.jpg

**B - Central retinal vein occlusion** - Ischemic central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) manifests with sudden, painless loss of vision and a relative afferent pupillary defect, both of which are seen here. Furthermore, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and atherosclerosis, which this patient has, are risk factors for CRVO. However, in ischemic CRVO, fundoscopy would reveal multiple foci of retinal hemorrhage as well as severe edema of the macula and optic disc, neither of which is consistent with the findings seen in this patient.

Image File: 1099-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55590ee180e14.jpg

**D - Acute angle-closure glaucoma** - Acute angle-closure glaucoma (AACG) can manifest with a sudden loss of vision and a relative afferent pupillary defect, both of which are seen here. However, the loss of vision is always painful and patients have an increased intraocular pressure (> 21 mm Hg), as opposed to the normal intraocular pressure in this patient. Furthermore, patients with AACG often present with injection and chemosis of the conjunctiva as well as trigeminal autonomic symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, lacrimation). On fundoscopy, the optic disc would appear edematous or hyperemic, in contrast to the normal optic disc in this patient.

Image File: 1099-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e4a5b0c536b7.jpg

**E - Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy** - Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy can manifest with sudden, painless loss of vision, which this patient has. However, fundoscopy would show a hyperemic or edematous optic disc and possibly splinter hemorrhages within the optic disc, as opposed to the normal optic disc seen in this patient. Retinal and macular changes, which are seen here, would not be expected in anterior ischemic optic neuropathy.

Image File: 1099-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58de3b98ad6d6.jpg

**F - Vitreous hemorrhage** - Massive vitreous hemorrhage can manifest with sudden, painless loss of vision and an afferent pupillary defect, both of which are seen here. Furthermore, both hypertension and diabetes mellitus, which this patient has, are risk factors for vitreous hemorrhage. However, the view of the retina on fundoscopy would be obscured by blood, and visualization of the optic disc and macula would not be possible, in contrast to this patient's clearly visible fundus.

**G - Retinal detachment** - Extensive retinal detachment or retinal detachment involving the macula can manifest with sudden, painless loss of vision and an afferent pupillary defect, both of which are seen here. Furthermore, both hypertension and diabetes mellitus, which this patient has, are risk factors for retinal detachment. However, fundoscopy would show a gray, detached, freely floating retina.

Image File: 1099-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d923ac445.jpg

**H - Age-related macular degeneration** - Exudative (wet) age-related macular degeneration (AMD) can manifest with unilateral, acute, painless vision impairment. Furthermore, cardiovascular disease and smoking history, both present in this patient, are risk factors for AMD. However, AMD usually does not lead to a complete loss of vision, but rather manifests with central scotoma (a blind spot) and metamorphopsia. Moreover, fundoscopy in wet AMD would show gray-green retinal discoloration, subretinal or intraretinal hemorrhages, and macular edema.

Image File: 1099-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d90d85ab3.jpg

