### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Factitious disorder** - Patients with factitious disorder intentionally falsify symptoms in the absence of external rewards (e.g., financial gain, medications) to assume a patient role. This patient's acute blood loss in the setting of numerous brown crusts along her arm veins raises suspicion for anemia from self-induced phlebotomy. Her pallor, pale conjunctivae, dry mucous membranes, weakness, and heart murmur are likely secondary to anemia. Factitious disorder is more prevalent among women and has an association with exposure to health care (including health care workers, like this patient).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Intravenous drug abuse** - Patients who inject substances intravenously are at risk for multiple complications, including infection (e.g., infective endocarditis, HIV, hepatitis C), overdose, and vascular damage. Though this patient has brown crusts along her arm veins consistent with repeated venous access, she does not present with signs of infection (e.g., fever). Her heart murmur is likely due to anemia, not a bacterial vegetation.

**C - Somatic symptom disorder** - Patients with somatic symptom disorder (SSD) have ≥ 1 somatic symptoms (e.g., weakness, pain) that cause significant distress or impairment. The state of being symptomatic typically presents for ≥ 6 months and leads to excessive anxiety and preoccupation. Patients have treatment-seeking behavior (e.g., frequent hospital visits and evaluations) in the absence of a external reward (e.g., financial gain). However, patients with SSD do not falsify symptoms; in contrast, this patient's acute blood loss in the setting of numerous brown crusts along her arm veins raises suspicion for anemia from self-induced phlebotomy.

**D - Myelodysplastic syndrome** - Myelodysplastic syndrome typically causes anemia and can therefore present similarly with fatigue, pallor, tachycardia, a heart murmur, and a low Hb concentration with a normal or increased MCV. However, reticulocyte count would be low or normal, as there is no reactive increase in erythropoiesis, since the bone marrow is unable to effectively produce RBCs.

**E - Conversion disorder** - Patients with conversion disorder present with neurological symptoms (e.g., altered motor or sensory function) that cannot be fully explained by a neurological condition. These symptoms typically cause significant distress or psychosocial impairment. Though this patient has generalized proximal muscle weakness, she also presents with other somatic symptoms, including anemia, that make this diagnosis unlikely.

**F - Primary hyperparathyroidism** - Primary hyperparathyroidism can cause gastrointestinal problems, nephrolithiasis, generalized pain and weakness, and psychiatric symptoms (e.g., depression, anxiety, sleep disturbance). However, patients are typically asymptomatic. Symptoms typically result from hypercalcemia, but this patient's serum calcium concentration is normal.

**G - Acute small bowel hemorrhage** - An acute small bowel hemorrhage, such as erosive duodenitis from peptic ulcer disease, can cause upper gastrointestinal bleeding that could also present with tachycardia and hypotension. However, this patient takes proton pump inhibitors for PUD, and small bowel hemorrhage would lead to occult blood in stool, making this an unlikely cause of her symptoms.

**H - Iron deficiency anemia** - Patients with iron deficiency anemia also present with low Hb and nonspecific symptoms of anemia (e.g., fatigue, pallor, tachycardia, heart murmur). However, MCV is typically low (i.e., microcytic anemia), and reticulocyte count would be low or normal because there is no reactive increase in erythropoiesis, since iron levels are inadequate for Hb synthesis.

**I - Malingering** - Patients who are malingering intentionally falsify symptoms. This patient's acute blood loss in the setting of numerous brown crusts along her arm veins raises suspicion for anemia from self-induced phlebotomy. However, the goal of malingering is external reward (e.g., medications, financial compensation, time off from work, avoiding going to prison). This patient is seeking treatment despite already being on sick leave, and there is no indication that she seeks other types of external reward, meaning another diagnosis is more likely.

