### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Lung cancer** - Lung cancer is the second most common cancer in the US, especially in women ≥ 60 years with a history of cigarette smoking. Lung cancer is also the single most common source of brain metastases, which cause a variety of symptoms, including progressively worsening cognitive dysfunction and focal neurological deficits.

Image File: 1109-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93ff06bf.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy** - Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy may present with decreased cognitive function, focal neurological deficits, and multifocal hyperintense lesions on T2-weighted MRI. However, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) almost exclusively develops in patients with severe immunosuppression (e.g., AIDS, patients on immunosuppressive therapy). This patient does not have any clinical feature to suggest immunosuppression (e.g., oral candidiasis), and has not received any form of immunosuppressive therapy.

**B - Glioblastoma multiforme** - Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is one of the most common and lethal primary brain tumors in adults between 45–70 years of age. While progressive focal deficits are not uncommon, the majority of cases present with headaches. Furthermore, MRI typically shows a large unifocal lesion, unlike multifocal lesions of brain metastases.

**C - Multiple sclerosis** - Multiple sclerosis may present with cognitive impairment, focal neurological deficits, and multifocal hyperintense lesions on T2-weighted MRI. However, the symptoms of multiple sclerosis usually begin between the ages of 20–40 years, and the clinical course is typically characterized by exacerbations and remissions.

**D - Meningioma** - Meningiomas, which are the most common primary brain tumors in adults, may present with focal neurological deficits and have a hyperintense appearance on a T2-weighted MRI. However, meningiomas usually appear as unifocal extra-axial space-occupying lesions, unlike in this patient with multiple intra-axial lesions at the junction of the gray and white matter.

**E - Colorectal cancer** - Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer in the US. Risk factors include smoking and alcohol consumption. While brain metastases are possible, initial metastases are usually to the liver or lungs. Tumors arising from the proximal rectum usually metastasize via the portal system to the liver, while tumors of the distal rectum metastasize via the inferior rectal vein to the inferior vena cava and thus the lungs.

**F - Melanoma** - Malignant melanoma is the third most common primary tumor in patients with brain metastases. However, this patient does not have any cutaneous lesions, nor risk factors associated with melanomas (e.g., chronic sun exposure, family history, immunosuppression). Moreover, intracranial metastases caused by malignant melanomas typically appear hypointense on T2-weighted imaging.

