### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Poliomyelitis** - Poliomyelitis, which is caused by the poliovirus, manifests as acute lower motor neuron weakness that begins asymmetrically in the lower extremities and ascends over hours to days. Patients can have pro-dromal flu-like symptoms before the onset of weakness. CSF analysis in poliomyelitis is typically consistent with viral infection (lymphocytic pleocytosis, normal or slightly increased protein levels, and normal glucose levels), as seen here. Diaphragmatic involvement ultimately results in respiratory failure and death.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Coxsackie meningitis** - The CSF findings suggestive of a viral infection (lymphocytic pleocytosis, elevated protein, and normal glucose levels) as well as prodromal flu-like symptoms are consistent with coxsackievirus meningitis. However, infants with meningitis typically manifest with non-specific neurological symptoms such as irritability, lethargy, poor feeding, vomiting, and/or seizures. Asymmetric flaccid weakness of the lower limbs is not characteristic of coxsackievirus meningitis.

**C - HSV encephalitis** - The CSF findings suggestive of a viral infection (lymphocytic pleocytosis, elevated protein, and normal glucose levels) as well as prodromal flu-like symptoms are consistent with HSV encephalitis. However, infants with encephalitis typically manifest with non-specific neurological symptoms such as irritability, lethargy, poor feeding, vomiting, and/or seizures. Asymmetric flaccid weakness of the lower limbs is not characteristic of HSV encephalitis.

**D - Botulism** - Botulism can cause acute flaccid paralysis. However, muscle weakness in botulism typically descends from proximal to distal parts of the body, and is not preceded by prodromal flu-like symptoms. Furthermore, CSF findings are typically normal in botulism because it is a toxin-mediated disease.

**E - Tetanus** - Tetanus can occur in an unvaccinated individual following contamination of an injury with Clostridium tetani spores. However, tetanus causes spastic paralysis (spasm, trismus, risus sardonicus, and opisthotonus), and prodromal flu-like symptoms would not be expected. Furthermore, CSF analysis is typically normal in tetanus because it is a toxin-mediated disease.

**F - Guillain-Barre syndrome** - Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS) would manifest as acute ascending flaccid paralysis, and is often preceded by a viral upper respiratory tract illness (flu-like symptoms). However, the paralysis is typically symmetrical unlike this patient with asymmetrical lower extremity weakness, and CSF analysis would show albuminocytologic dissociation rather than lymphocytic pleocytosis.

