### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Mercury** - Mercury poisoning is the most likely explanation for this patient's presentation. Chronic mercury toxicity manifests with neuropsychiatric symptoms including anxiety, erethism mercuralis (abnormal irritability), ataxia, and tremor. Various degrees of polyneuropathy may also be observed. Another common sign is gingival and/or buccal inflammation with a characteristic bluish‑violet discoloration. This patient's history of working in a metal refinery further supports this diagnosis. Finally, treatment includes administrating dimercaprol, a chelating agent used to reduce serum mercury levels. The chelating agents 2,3 dimercaptopropane-1-sulfonate (DMPS) and dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) can also be used to lower mercury levels.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Cyanide** - Cyanide intoxication manifests acutely as confusion, vertigo, headache, nausea, and vomiting, which can progress to seizures and coma in severe cases. Affected patients are initially hypertensive and tachycardic but then develop hypotension and bradycardia as peripheral oxygen delivery deteriorates. Chronic toxicity most often causes non-specific symptoms such as abdominal pain, nausea, chest pain, and headache. Neither acute nor chronic exposure cause gingivobuccal inflammation, tremor, or ataxia. Finally, cyanide toxicity is usually treated with sodium thiosulfate and hydroxocobalamin, or amyl nitrite, sodium nitrite, and sodium thiosulfate, but not with dimercaprol.

**C - Arsenic** - Arsenic toxicity can occur after an acute exposure or following years of chronic exposure. In either case, the most prominent feature of toxicity is symmetrical peripheral neuropathy that can involve motor and sensory nerves. Chronic exposure will often cause characteristic white lines to appear in the fingernails; acute poisoning typically manifests with garlic-scented breath, seizures, and coma. Although dimercaprol is indicated in cases of arsenic poisoning, this patient's presentation is not consistent with acute or chronic arsenic poisoning.

**D - Iron** - Iron toxicity is most commonly seen in children, usually due to accidental ingestion of iron tablets. Acute iron toxicity typically manifests with hemorrhagic gastroenteritis, anion gap metabolic acidosis, respiratory depression, and altered consciousness, none of which this patient has. Chronic iron toxicity may cause renal and/or liver failure. Finally, iron toxicity is managed with deferoxamine, not dimercaprol.

**E - Copper** - Acute copper toxicity usually manifests with vomiting, diarrhea, melena, and abdominal pain. More severe or continued exposure may result in hemolytic anemia along with renal and/or hepatic failure. This patient's symptoms include neuropsychiatric components and gingivobuccal inflammation, neither of which are expected in copper toxicity. Furthermore, penicillamine is the first-line treatment for copper toxicity; dimercaprol is used less frequently.

