### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa** - While the ear is normally colonized by gram-positive cocci, otitis externa is most commonly caused by bacterial infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa (∼ 40% of cases), which is commonly acquired from swimming activities. Other causes of otitis externa include infection with Staphylococci epidermidis and Staphylococci aureus.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Infection with Aspergillus species** - Infections of the external ear with Aspergillus or Candida are the most common causes of fungal otitis externa. Fungal infection of the external ear accounts for < 10% of otitis externa cases and are usually associated with concurrent antibiotic use. While patients may present with tragal discomfort and ear discharge, they usually have less severe ear edema, erythema, and pain than with the more common causes of otitis externa. In addition, intense ear itching is usually the primary symptom of fungal otitis externa.

**B - Infection with varicella-zoster virus** - Herpes zoster oticus is caused by infection of the external ear with the varicella-zoster virus. Like otitis externa, it is associated with tragal tenderness, but herpes zoster oticus is also associated with blisters on the external ear, face, and mouth. Patients also experience vertigo, tinnitus, and dysgeusia (loss of taste). Moreover, Herpes zoster oticus is associated with sensorineural hearing loss rather than conductive hearing loss.

**C - Infection with Streptococcus pneumoniae** - Streptococcus pneumoniae rarely infects the external ear, but it is a common cause of otitis media. While otitis media may also present with discharge from the ear and conductive hearing loss, tragal tenderness and ear canal edema are usually absent. Furthermore, otitis media tends to occur in winter months and is often associated with a history of cold and congestion.

**D - Abnormal squamous epithelial growth** - Abnormal squamous epithelial growth leads to cholesteatoma, which is often asymptomatic. Patients may present with discharge from the ear, dizziness, and conductive hearing loss. It affects the middle ear and is not associated with tragal tenderness or external ear edema.

**F - Pleomorphic replacement of normal bone** - Otosclerosis involves a pleomorphic replacement of normal bone. It leads to progressive conductive hearing loss in adults, but it is not associated with tragal tenderness, external ear edema, or discharge from the ear.

