### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Application of alcohol-based ear drops after swimming activities** - Application of acetic acid and/or alcohol-based ear drops helps to dry the ear and re-acidify the ear canal. Patients who engage in frequent water activities are at increased risk for recurrent episodes of otitis externa; protecting the ears by keeping the auricle and external auditory canal clean and dry is the most effective prevention strategy. Other measures to prevent recurrence include carefully blow-drying the ear, wearing a bathing cap during water activities, treatment of underlying dermatological disorders, and avoiding manipulation of the ear canal.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Remove cerumen from the ear canal regularly** - The removal of cerumen from the ear canal may be indicated to acutely evaluate and treat otitis externa. However, cerumen should only be removed by a healthcare provider to prevent damaging the ear and making it more vulnerable to infection. Patients should be counseled not to remove cerumen because it helps protect the ear canal from infection.

**C - Oral use of ciprofloxacin prior to swimming activities** - Oral ciprofloxacin is used to treat severe otitis externa, otitis externa in patients at risk of developing complications (e.g., immunosuppressed patients, patients with diabetes mellitus), and in patients in whom topical treatment is not possible. This patient is not presenting with any symptoms concerning for severe otitis externa and does not have any conditions that would necessitate oral treatment. Moreover, oral antibiotics are not used to prevent recurrent otitis externa.

**D - Topical use of hydrocortisone cream after swimming activities** - Hydrocortisone can be used after swimming to prevent the recurrence of otitis externa when combined with alcohol solutions, and as an acute treatment for edema and inflammation. However, in both instances, drops are used rather than creams, which increase moisture retention. The key to the prevention of recurrent episodes of otitis externa is keeping the ear canal clean and dry, so cream formulations are not recommended.

**E - Application of antibiotic ear drops after swimming activities** - Antibiotic ear drops are used to treat acute otitis externa; however, they are not helpful in preventing recurrent episodes. The antibiotics typically used in acute treatment are ofloxacin, ciprofloxacin, or gentamicin.

**F - Limit swimming activities to a maximum of 1x/week** - Limiting swimming activities can be considered for patients with acute otitis externa, but measures that limit the patient's social and physical activities are not the first line for prevention of recurrence of this condition. Ear hygiene measures are effective in reducing the risk of recurrence, so other preventative strategies should be tried first.

