### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Topical erythromycin** - The most common organism causing bacterial conjunctivitis in adults is Staphylococcus aureus, followed by Streptococcal pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae. Erythromycin is effective against gram-positive and some gram-negative organisms, making it the empirical antibiotic of choice in patients with bacterial conjunctivitis.

Image File: 1117-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_588085fea3b7c.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Topical natamycin** - Topical natamycin is effective against fungi that commonly infect the eye, i.e., Fusarium, Candida, and Aspergillus, which mainly affect the cornea (fungal keratitis) and may occur in immunocompromised individuals or following a penetrating eye injury (e.g., thorn prick). Fungal conjunctivitis is extremely rare. Patients with fungal keratitis may present with redness and discharge of the eye, but patients will also complain of visual disturbances and examination would reveal a corneal ulcer. The absence of risk factors and characteristic examination findings in this patient make fungal keratitis an unlikely diagnosis.

**B - Topical ketorolac** - Topical ketorolac, an NSAID, is used to reduce the pain, inflammation, and swelling seen in allergic conjunctivitis, which presents with bilateral redness, foreign body sensation, and discharge of eyes, as seen in this patient. This patient's personal and family history of allergies is also a risk factor for the development of allergic conjunctivitis. However, the discharge in this patient is purulent instead of watery/mucoid; and itching and follicles on the tarsal conjunctiva, both characteristic features of allergic conjunctivitis, are not seen in this patient.

Image File: 1117-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58808918f0f22.jpg

**C - Topical prednisolone acetate** - Topical glucocorticoids, e.g., prednisolone acetate drops, may be a treatment option for refractory allergic conjunctivitis (e.g., vernal keratoconjunctivitis), which presents with bilateral redness, foreign body sensation, and discharge of eyes, as seen in this patient. This patient's personal and family history of allergies is also a risk factor for allergic conjunctivitis. However, the discharge in this patient is purulent instead of watery/mucoid; and itching and follicles on the tarsal conjunctiva, both characteristic features of allergic conjunctivitis, are not seen in this patient.

Image File: 1117-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9498f858.jpg

**E - Topical ciprofloxacin** - Topical fluoroquinolones like ciprofloxacin are not recommended as first-line therapy for routine bacterial conjunctivitis because of the concerns surrounding increasing bacterial drug resistance. The only exception is contact lens wearers, since the most common causative organism of bacterial conjunctivitis in this group of patients is Pseudomonas aeruginosa, against which fluoroquinolones are effective. Pseudomonas conjunctivitis is often more fulminant and can rapidly lead to sight-threatening keratitis and corneal perforation. As this patient does not wear contact lenses and her presentation is not as severe, another treatment option is more appropriate.

**F - Artificial tears** - Artificial tears, e.g., carboxymethyl cellulose, are used as eye lubricants in conditions causing 'dry eye' such as keratoconjunctivitis sicca, allergic conjunctivitis, and viral conjunctivitis, as well as in contact lens wearers. Dry eye presents as a foreign body sensation in the eye, along with itching and redness, but it is not accompanied by purulent discharge, as seen in this case. While artificial tears maybe used in bacterial conjunctivitis to offer some symptomatic relief, they will not treat the infection.

**G - Oral erythromycin** - Oral erythromycin is used to treat chlamydial conjunctivitis, since it frequently occurs along with asymptomatic genital infections. Although this patient is sexually active with more than one partner and therefore at risk of developing a chlamydial infection, the characteristic features of chlamydial conjunctivitis (adult inclusion conjunctivitis) are follicular conjunctivitis with follicles and a cobblestone appearance of the palpebral conjunctiva that persists for weeks/months with no or only a partial response to topical antibiotic therapy. Other systemic antibiotics effective in treating chlamydial conjunctivitis are azithromycin and doxycycline. All sexual partners should also be treated to prevent reinfection.

Image File: 1117-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f31106a33f11.jpg

