### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Vitreous hemorrhage** - Vitreous hemorrhage may occur secondary to proliferative diabetic retinopathy in which friable vessels in areas of neovascularization bleed, resulting in sudden, painless loss of vision or visual obscuration with haze or floaters. This patient's fundus is difficult to visualize and examination demonstrates no red reflex in the right eye, which is consistent with opacifying blood in the vitreous.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Central retinal vein occlusion** - Central retinal vein occlusion may present with sudden, painless loss of vision. However, this vision loss will show engorged vasculature in the fundus, papilledema, macular edema, intraretinal hemorrhages, and is often associated with a relative afferent pupillary defect, rather than a reduced red reflex and no view as seen in this patient.

Image File: 1118-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55590ee180e14.jpg

**B - Central retinal artery occlusion** - Central retinal artery occlusion may also present with sudden, painless loss of vision. However, fundoscopic examination would show a red reflex and allow for a view of the posterior pole, demonstrating a characteristic cherry-red spot and area of retinal whitening from retinal ischemia.

Image File: 1118-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d92b31163.jpg

**C - Cataract** - Cataracts can cause painless loss of vision and are also associated with chronic diabetes mellitus. An advanced cataract could also potentially cause an absent red reflex and difficult fundoscopic examination, but this would not be an acute process unless associated with trauma.

Image File: 1118-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d92bd58c5.jpg

**D - Retinal detachment** - Retinal detachment can occur secondary to proliferative diabetic retinopathy and can cause floaters and a painless loss of vision. Although examination could sometimes reveal an absent red reflex, fundoscopic examination would show a pale area of detached retina, with either subtle or marked elevation depending on the degree of detachment.

Image File: 1118-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9462e7ef.jpg

**E - Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy** - Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (AION) can present with sudden painless loss of vision from occlusion of blood vessels that supply the optic nerve. While examination may also reveal a pale optic disc, AION would not explain this patient's obscured fundus.

Image File: 1118-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58de3b98ad6d6.jpg

**F - Migraine aura** - Although this patient has a history of migraines, and a migraine aura can present with blurring of vision and visual hallucinations (e.g., dark streaks), symptoms typically only last for minutes to hours and are often followed by a headache. Additionally, migraine would not present with a diminished red reflex and inability to see into the posterior pole of the eye.

