### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Primidone** - Primidone is the first-line pharmacotherapy for patients with essential tremor. Treatment should be offered to patients in whom the condition causes intermittent or persistent impairment. Although the severity of essential tremor typically remains stable over time, some patients experience disability from tremor progression. Primidone is also used as an anticonvulsant in the treatment of grand mal, psychomotor, and focal seizures. Its primary active metabolite is phenobarbital, which is responsible for its sedative effects as well as strong cytochrome P450 induction.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Alprazolam** - Alprazolam and other benzodiazepines are a second-line treatment for essential tremor due to their addictive potential and severity of withdrawal symptoms, particularly with sudden cessation of their use. This patient's treatment should be initiated with a first-line medication.

**B - Levodopa** - Levodopa is used for the treatment of resting tremor due to Parkinson disease, not essential tremor. Although Parkinson disease also manifests with a low-amplitude tremor, the tremor is typically asymmetrical and improves rather than worsens with purposeful voluntary movement.

**D - Propranolol** - Propranolol is a first-line drug for the treatment of essential tremor. However, it is relatively contraindicated in this patient because of his bronchial asthma, as nonselective beta blockers are known to worsen asthma symptoms due to their bronchoconstrictive effects. Therefore, another drug would be more appropriate for this patient.

**E - Valproic acid** - Valproic acid is a second-line drug for the treatment of essential tremor. This patient's treatment should be initiated with a first-line medication.

