### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Human-derived specific immune globulin** - Human-derived botulism immune globulin against the botulinum toxin is the treatment of choice for infant botulism in children < 1 year of age because the risk of a hypersensitivity reaction is lower than with equine-derived antitoxins.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Intravenous penicillin G** - Penicillin is a beta-lactam antibiotic that is primarily used to treat infection with select gram-positive aerobes, including Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Actinomyces. S. pneumoniae may cause meningitis, which often manifests with poor feeding and irritability in infants, but poor muscle tone and constipation would be inconsistent with this diagnosis. The goal of treatment in this patient is to counteract the effect of botulinum toxins. Since antibiotics cannot counteract the effect of botulinum toxins, intravenous penicillin would not be an effective treatment for infant botulism.

**C - Intravenous gentamicin** - Gentamicin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that mainly used to treat infections caused by aerobic gram-negative rods and may be indicated in newborns for empiric therapy of bacterial meningitis. Although this patient presents with some signs of infant meningitis (e.g., irritability, poor feeding), poor muscle tone and constipation would not be consistent with this bacterial meningitis. This infant is also older than one month and thus no longer considered a newborn. Aminoglycosides are contraindicated in botulism because they may exacerbate symptoms by causing neuromuscular blockade. Additionally, antibiotics in general cannot counter the effect of botulinum toxins, nor are aminoglycosides effective against anaerobes such as C. botulinum.

**D - Equine-derived antitoxin** - Equine-derived antitoxins are immunoglobulins that are derived from the blood of horses that have been immunized with a specific bacterial toxin/toxoid (e.g., botulinum toxin). Equine-derived antitoxins contain foreign proteins that can cause severe allergic reactions in infants and should therefore be avoided in infants with botulism < 1 year of age. The equine-derived heptavalent botulism antitoxin may, however, be used in adults and children > 1 year with wound botulism or food-borne botulism because the risk of hypersensitivity is lower in these patient groups. This type of antitoxin is also considerably cheaper than human-derived antitoxins.

**E - Plasmapheresis** - Plasmapheresis refers to the separation of plasma from blood in extracorporeal circulation. The plasma is then either exchanged with normal plasma or filtered to remove pathological antibodies, immune complexes, and/or protein-bound toxins. Plasmapheresis is also a therapeutic option for immune-mediated neurological conditions such as Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS). However, the diagnosis of GBS is unlikely in this infant because GBS typically manifests with ascending paralysis following certain gastrointestinal or respiratory tract infections.

**F - Pyridostigmine** - Pyridostigmine is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that is used to treat myasthenia gravis. Infants with congenital myasthenic syndromes and juvenile myasthenia gravis can also present with feeding difficulty, poor head control, and ptosis. Here, however, the history of weaning with honey and the absence of a family history of myasthenia gravis suggest infant botulism as the more likely diagnosis. Pyridostigmine has been used in case reports as an experimental treatment for infant botulism in infants who did not respond to appropriate first-line treatment, but it is not routinely used for this condition.

