### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Autoimmunity** - Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) is a paraneoplastic autoimmune disease, most commonly associated with small cell lung cancer. In LEMS, antibodies against presynaptic voltage-gated calcium channels impair acetylcholine (ACh) release in the neuromuscular junction. This leads to proximal muscle weakness, autonomic dysfunction (e.g., dry mouth, constipation), and decreased deep tendon reflexes, as seen in this patient. A unique feature of LEMS is an improvement in strength and reflex activity with repeated use/stimulation. Since postsynaptic ACh receptors remain intact in LEMS, once enough ACh has built up in the postsynaptic cleft from repeated stimulation, muscle contraction can return.

Image File: 1123-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f212ae72b941.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Metastasis** - The CNS is one of the most common locations for lung cancer metastasis, which can present with focal neurological deficits. Patients with brain metastasis may exhibit muscle weakness, as seen here. However, upper motor neuron symptoms (e.g., hyperreflexia, spasticity) would also be expected, rather than the decreased deep tendon reflexes observed in this patient. In addition, brain metastasis commonly presents with headaches, cognitive deficits, and seizures, none of which are present here. Moreover, her autonomic symptom (dry mouth) and the increased reflex activity noted after repeated stimulation are inconsistent with this diagnosis.

**B - Inflammation** - Inflammatory myopathies (IM), such as polymyositis and dermatomyositis, typically manifest with proximal muscle weakness, as seen in this patient. However, her autonomic symptom (dry mouth) and the decreased deep tendon reflexes with improvement after repeated stimulation are inconsistent with IM. Although a strong association exists between dermatomyositis and malignancy, this patient lacks the typical cutaneous manifestations of this disease (i.e., Gottron papules, heliotrope rash), which excludes dermatomyositis as the underlying mechanism responsible for her presentation.

**D - Heredity** - Hereditary causes of muscle weakness include muscular dystrophies (e.g., Duchenne muscular dystrophy), hereditary motor sensory neuropathies (HMSN) (e.g., Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease), and congenital myopathies. Although decreased deep tendon reflexes, as seen here, may be found in all of these conditions, increased reflex activity after repeated stimulation would not be present. Moreover, further symptoms such as muscle atrophy and, in the case of HMSN, sensory deficits would be expected. Finally, these hereditary conditions almost exclusively manifest in childhood or early adulthood.

**E - Invasion** - Invasion of a lung carcinoma into the cervical sympathetic chain can lead to Pancoast syndrome, presenting with upper extremity weakness and loss of deep tendon reflexes, as seen in this patient. However, muscle weakness in Pancoast syndrome is typically unilateral. In addition, further symptoms caused by the compression or infiltration of local structures by the tumor would be expected (e.g., shoulder pain, muscle atrophy, sensory deficits, Horner syndrome, hoarseness, and superior vena cava syndrome). An increase in reflex activity noted after repeated stimulation is inconsistent with this diagnosis. Moreover, the patient's CT revealed a mass in the center of the right lung, whereas Pancoast tumors are always located in the superior sulcus.

**F - Infection** - Some viral infections that affect the anterior horn cells can cause muscle weakness, resulting in flaccid paralysis or invasion of the muscle itself (i.e., myositis). Viruses that cause flaccid paralysis include poliovirus, nonpolio enteroviruses, and West Nile virus, all of which are extremely unlikely in a patient without a travel history to endemic areas. Moreover, further symptoms such as muscle fasciculations, atrophy, and signs of infection (e.g., fever, malaise, headache) would be expected. Viral myositis is commonly caused by influenza viruses and enteroviruses; patients typically present with fever, myalgia, and a history of an upper respiratory tract infection, none of which are seen in this patient. Additionally, her slowly progressive symptoms, autonomic symptom (dry mouth), and the increased reflex activity noted after repeated stimulation are inconsistent with an infectious cause.

