### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Myasthenia gravis** - Myasthenia gravis (MG) typically affects older men and young women and is characterized by ptosis, diplopia, and proximal limb weakness, all of which are seen here. A positive ice pack test supports the diagnosis of MG. The presence of ACh receptor antibodies in the serum and electromyography showing a decremental response following repetitive nerve stimulation confirms the diagnosis. Treatment with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (e.g., pyridostigmine) is the standard approach in MG. Supplemental immunosuppression with glucocorticoids is added if symptoms persist despite treatment with pyridostigmine.

Image File: 1126-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f212ae72b941.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Polymyositis** - Polymyositis (PM) typically affects women aged 30 to 60 years and manifests with symmetric progressive proximal muscle weakness, which often leads to difficulties climbing stairs. However, other features of PM, such as dysphagia, muscle tenderness, and Raynaud phenomenon, are not seen here. Moreover, ocular symptoms (e.g., diplopia, ptosis) are typically not seen in PM.

**C - Chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia** - Chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia (CPEO) can manifest with bilateral ptosis, diplopia, and proximal muscle weakness, all of which are seen here. However, CPEO is a type of mitochondrial myopathy that affects multiple family members, and this patient has no family history of serious illness. Moreover, a positive ice pack test is not expected in patients with CPEO.

**D - Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome** - Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) is associated with small cell lung carcinoma and can manifest with proximal limb weakness and less commonly with ocular symptoms (e.g., diplopia, ptosis), both of which are seen here. However, in patients with LEMS, reflexes are typically reduced or absent and muscle strength improves with exercise. Moreover, LEMS is also associated with symptoms of autonomic dysfunction (e.g., dry mouth, constipation), which are not seen in this patient.

Image File: 1126-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_601d54b68037b.jpg

**E - Graves disease** - Graves disease typically affects women aged 20 to 40 years and can manifest with ocular symptoms (e.g., diplopia), which is seen here. However, this patient lacks typical features of hyperthyroidism (e.g., heat intolerance, weight loss, tachycardia), and decreased TSH would be expected in affected individuals, whereas this patient has increased TSH. In addition, proximal muscle weakness and ptosis are not typically seen in Graves disease.

**F - Multiple sclerosis** - Multiple sclerosis (MS) typically affects individuals aged 20 and 40 years and is more common in women than in men. MS can manifest with fatigue, muscle weakness, and diplopia, all of which are seen here. However, the motor deficits seen in MS are due to spinal cord lesions in the pyramidal tracts that lead to hyperreflexia, whereas this patient has normal reflexes. Moreover, a positive ice pack test is not expected in patients with MS.

**G - Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis** - Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) can manifest with progressive muscle weakness, as seen here. However, ALS most commonly affects individuals aged 50 to 70 years that present with both upper and lower motor neuron dysfunction (e.g., hyperreflexia, spasticity, muscle atrophy, fasciculations) and/or bulbar symptoms (e.g., dysarthria, dysphagia), none of which is seen here. Moreover, a positive ice pack test is not expected in patients with ALS.

