### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Increase the dose of pyridostigmine** - Despite receiving treatment with pyridostigmine, this patient still exhibits typical symptoms of myasthenia gravis (e.g., weakness, ptosis). The improvement of her symptoms after receiving edrophonium confirms that the persisting symptoms are still due to her underlying myasthenia gravis, rather than an alternate diagnosis (e.g., cholinergic crisis). The dose of pyridostigmine she is currently receiving is most likely insufficient to control her myasthenic symptoms and should be increased. Other treatment options for myasthenia gravis include glucocorticoids, immunosuppressive agents, plasmapheresis, intravenous immune globulin injection, and thymectomy.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer timed doses of edrophonium** - Timed doses of edrophonium, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that prolongs the presence of acetylcholine in the neuromuscular junction for a very limited amount of time (approx. 5–10 minutes), can be used for diagnostic purposes in patients suspected of having myasthenia gravis. Improvement of this patient's symptoms following administration supports the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis. However, the very short half-life of the effect of the drug makes it unsuited for the treatment for myasthenia gravis.

**C - Discontinue treatment with pyridostigmine** - Discontinuing pyridostigmine would be appropriate if there was concern for cholinergic excess causing cholinergic crisis, which can also manifest with muscle weakness in a patient taking an acetylcholine esterase inhibitor such as pyridostigmine. However, this patient's signs and symptoms are more consistent with persistent myasthenia gravis symptoms (mild ptosis, blurry vision, bulbar weakness) and she lacks typical symptoms of cholinergic excess such as miosis, bronchospasm, and lacrimation. The resolution of her symptoms with administration of edrophonium is further evidence that this patient is not suffering from cholinergic excess and discontinuing pyridostigmine would not be appropriate.

**D - Initiate treatment with intravenous atropine** - Intravenous atropine can be used for the treatment of cholinergic crisis, which can also manifest with diffuse weakness. This patient is at risk of cholinergic crisis due to her use of a cholinesterase inhibitor (pyridostigmine). However, she lacks other typical signs and symptoms of cholinergic excess, such as miosis, lacrimation, diarrhea, salivation, and bronchospasm. Moreover, the improvement of her symptoms after administration of edrophonium further argues against cholinergic excess. Atropine would most likely worsen her current condition rather than improve it.

**E - Add glycopyrrolate as needed** - Glycopyrrolate is a muscarinic antagonist that blocks the release of acetylcholine and can be used for patients with cholinergic side effects attributable to cholinesterase inhibitor therapy. This patient's use of pyridostigmine and diffuse weakness raises the possibility of cholinergic excess, but the absence of other typical signs or symptoms of cholinergic excess (e.g., lacrimation, miosis, diarrhea, salivation, and bronchospasm) make this unlikely. The improvement of her symptoms after edrophonium administration make this even more unlikely and administration of glycopyrrolate would be expected to worsen her symptoms.

