### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Subdural hematoma** - A subdural hematoma is a type of intracranial hemorrhage frequently seen in infants with shaken baby syndrome. In shaken baby syndrome, which is caused by violent shaking of a baby, whiplash and rapid rotational head movements can lead to tearing of the intracerebral bridging veins and diffuse axonal injury. Characteristic physical exam findings of shaken baby syndrome include irritability, lethargy, retinal hemorrhages (due to rupture of the retinal veins), and bulging fontanelles, all of which are seen in this patient. Other injuries indicative of child abuse include posterior rib fractures, fractures at multiple stages of healing, bruises to the upper torso caused by forceful grip (like the purple discoloration in the T4–T10 dermatomes seen in this patient), and complex, long bone fractures (e.g., of the spiral humerus fractures).

Image File: 1131-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58adc91e3adc0.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Basilar skull fracture** - Common manifestations of a basilar skull fracture include periorbital ecchymosis with CSF rhinorrhea, CSF otorrhea, mastoid ecchymosis, and otorrhagia, which are not seen in this patient. Therefore, a skull base fracture is very unlikely in this patient.

**B - Lobar hemorrhage** - Lobar hemorrhage is associated with cerebral amyloid angiopathy. This type of hemorrhage is typically seen in adults. This pediatric patient was most likely injured as a result of nonaccidental trauma, which does not typically cause lobar hemorrhage.

**C - Epidural hematoma** - An epidural hematoma usually results from rupture of the middle meningeal artery due to a traumatic skull fracture. Although this patient has evidence of altered mental status (decreased feeding and arousability), and it is likely that he sustained some form of head trauma, the fundoscopic findings would be less likely to occur in patients with epidural hematoma. Furthermore, epidural hematomas are not the most common type of intracranial hemorrhage in cases of pediatric nonaccidental trauma.

Image File: 1131-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9274e7f9.jpg

**D - Bacterial meningitis** - Bacterial meningitis is typically accompanied by altered mental status (AMS), which, in infants, can manifest subtly with symptoms ranging from irritability to lethargy. Although this patient's decreased arousability indicates acute AMS, he does not have fever or signs of meningism. This patient's presentation should raise concern for nonaccidental trauma.

**E - Periventricular hemorrhage** - Periventricular hemorrhage (PVH) is a major cause of neurological disabilities and most commonly occurs in preterm infants due to germinal matrix hemorrhage. However, this boy was born at full term. Furthermore, symptoms would be expected to arise within the first 1–5 days of life, not 2 months after birth. This patient was most likely injured as a result of nonaccidental trauma, which does not typically lead to PVH.

