### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Conus medullaris syndrome** - This patient has conus medullaris syndrome as a result of compression of the most distal region of the spinal cord from his recent accident. Conus medullaris syndrome typically manifests with both upper and lower motor neuron signs. Bladder and bowel dysfunction within hours of the injury, hyperreflexia of the ankles, symmetric lower extremity weakness, and back pain are all consistent with this diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Spinal epidural abscess** - A spinal epidural abscess can cause cord compression, resulting in symptoms of weakness, bowel and bladder dysfunction, and back pain, which are seen in this patient. However, spinal epidural abscess results in systemic symptoms, such as fever and malaise, which this patient does not have. Furthermore, the absence of common risk factors for epidural abscess (IV drug use, recent spine procedure, and contiguous soft tissue infection) and the recent trauma suggest another diagnosis.

**B - Cerebellar stroke** - The cerebellum is supplied by the posterior circulation, and a stroke in this region can be due to dissection of the vertebral artery as a result of trauma. However, cerebellar stroke usually manifests with unilateral signs of ataxia, which this patient lacks. In addition, a cerebellar stroke would not explain this patient's bilateral motor weakness, hyperreflexia of the ankles, and bowel and bladder dysfunction.

**C - Cauda equina syndrome** - Cauda equina syndrome (CES) can be due to compression of the nerve roots below where the spinal cord terminates, which may be caused by trauma. However, CES typically manifests with asymmetric muscle weakness, decreased reflexes, and saddle anesthesia due to damage of the lower motor neurons, which is not consistent with this patient's symmetric muscle weakness and hyperreflexia. In addition, bowel and bladder dysfunction are late findings of CES and would not be expected within hours of injury. Lastly, because of nerve root compression, the pain usually radiates along the sensory distribution of the nerves affected.

**E - Anterior spinal cord syndrome** - Anterior spinal cord syndrome can manifest with acute motor weakness and bowel and bladder dysfunction as a result of occlusion of the anterior spinal cord artery and ischemia to the corticospinal tracts and autonomic fibers. However, in this syndrome, the spinothalamic tract is also affected, resulting in pain and temperature sensation deficits, which this patient lacks.

**F - Brown-Sequard syndrome** - Brown-Sequard syndrome manifests with ipsilateral proprioception and vibration sense loss, ipsilateral flaccid paralysis, and contralateral loss of pain and temperature, which are not consistent with the neurological findings in this patient. Instead, this patient has bilateral lower extremity weakness without sensory deficits. Furthermore, a fall is unlikely to result in Brown-Sequard syndrome, which is usually caused by penetrating injuries to the back.

