### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Ranibizumab** - Ranibizumab is a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitor. VEGF release in wet age-related macular degeneration (wet AMD or neovascular AMD) causes growth of new, friable blood vessels in the choriocapillaris, which are prone to bleeding and leaking. VEGF inhibitors delivered intravitreally are the first-line treatment for wet AMD and have become the mainstay of treatment due to their efficacy and safety profile.

Image File: 1134-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d90d85ab3.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Etanercept** - Etanercept is a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitor used in the treatment of systemic inflammatory illnesses like rheumatoid arthritis. It has no role in the treatment of wet age-related macular degeneration yet. However, there are ongoing investigations that test the use intravitreal TNF-alpha inhibitors for the treatment of vascular and neovascular retinal diseases (e.g., wet AMD).

**B - Thermal laser photocoagulation** - Thermal laser photocoagulation (retinal photocoagulation) can be used to coagulate the abnormal choroidal neovascular membrane in wet age-related macular degeneration. However, laser photocoagulation can also damage the overlying retina and may result in a permanent blind spot. Newer options with better efficacy and safety profiles are available and should be attempted first.

**D - Macular translocation surgery** - Macular translocation surgery involves detaching the macula from the posterior pole and attaching it to an area of intact retinal pigment epithelium. This approach is not an appropriate initial choice for a patient and is a treatment of last resort for advanced disease in patients with subfoveal neovascularization, edema, and hemorrhages, in which less invasive therapies have failed.

**E - Photodynamic therapy** - Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a second-line treatment for wet age-related macular degeneration that can be used for patients who fail first-line therapy. For initial treatment, a different option is more appropriate.

