### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Leaning forward relieves the pain** - In spinal stenosis, different postural changes can widen or narrow the spinal canal and thereby alleviate or worsen symptoms. By leaning forward, the spinal canal is widened and compression of the spinal cord is reduced. Therefore, leaning forward will most likely relieve this patient's back pain. Activities that flex the lumbar spine, such as sitting, cycling, or walking uphill, also help widen the spinal canal and alleviate pain in patients with spinal stenosis.

The exacerbation of lumbar spinal stenosis symptoms by certain postures that narrow the spinal cord (walking downhill, standing, walking) is called pseudoclaudication. In contrast to vascular claudication, which is a result of arterial vessel narrowing and impaired metabolic demands of muscle tissue, pseudoclaudication is thought to result from increased metabolic demands of a compressed and ischemic spinal cord.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Positive HLA-B27** - Seronegative spondyloarthropathies have a strong genetic association with HLA-B27 and frequently present with lower back pain. This patient is at increased risk for seronegative spondyloarthropathies given his family history, but those diseases are usually present before age 40. Additionally, they typically present with reduced range of motion and enthesitis and they do not cause neurologic symptoms.

**B - Increased hemoglobin A1c** - An increased HbA1c occurs in diabetes mellitus and is not commonly associated with spinal stenosis. This patient has several risk factors for DM type 2 (weight, hypertension, and hypercholesterolemia), and long-standing DM may lead to diabetic neuropathy that manifests with sensory deficits and reduced reflexes as seen in this patient. However, diabetic neuropathy does not account for this patient's radiating back pain.

**C - Positive straight leg raise** - A positive straight leg raise suggests back pain secondary to degenerative disc disease and is not a common finding in spinal stenosis. This patient's lower radiating back pain, sensory deficits, and reduced reflexes may be consistent with degenerative disc disease. However, degenerative disc disease primarily causes dermatomal sensory deficits, decreased leg strength, and reduced DTRs only of the muscles innervated by the compressed nerve root.

An anterior disc herniation into the cauda equina could cause bilateral and multi-dermatomal/myotomal symptoms, but the association of symptoms with exertion and chronic duration makes herniation unlikely (most herniations self-resolve/improve within 6–8 weeks) and this patient has no history of trauma (e.g., heavy lifting) to explain a herniation.

**D - Albuminocytologic dissociation on CSF analysis** - Albuminocytologic dissociation on CSF analysis is seen in Guillain-Barré syndrome, which sometimes follows an upper respiratory infection like this patient had. GBS may account for this patient's back and limb pain and his reduced muscle reflexes. However, GBS typically also causes a rapidly progressive ascending flaccid paralysis that self-resolves within weeks-to-months, whereas this patient has had chronic symptoms with intact muscle strength.

**F - Decreased ankle-brachial index** - A decreased ankle-brachial index is seen in peripheral arterial disease, which also presents with lower extremity pain with exertion (i.e., claudication). This patient has several risk factors for developing PAD (hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, advanced age), but his pain has a radiculopathic character and is also exacerbated by standing upright, neither of which are seen in PAD.

