### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Family history** - Family history is the strongest predisposing factor for the development of early-onset AD. This patient's father also had similar symptoms (forgetfulness and irritability) before dying at 55 years of age, which suggests a family history of early-onset AD. This condition follows an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance and is associated with gene mutations that affect the metabolism and clearance of amyloid beta. These mutations can occur in the amyloid precursor protein gene (APP), presenilin 1 gene (PSEN1), and presenilin 2 gene (PSEN2). The strongest predisposing factor for regular-onset AD is age.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hypertension** - Hypertension is a predisposing factor for regular-onset AD, but it is not the strongest predisposing factor for early-onset AD.

**B - Head trauma** - Head trauma is a predisposing factor for AD, but it is not the strongest predisposing factor for this condition.

**C - Medication** - Although the chronic use of certain medications (e.g., anticholinergics) has been associated with an increased risk of dementia, medication use is not the strongest predisposing factor for early-onset AD.

**D - Age** - Age is the strongest predisposing factor for regular-onset AD, but it is not the strongest predisposing factor for early-onset AD.

**E - Female sex** - Female sex is a predisposing factor for regular-onset AD, but it is not the strongest predisposing factor for early-onset AD.

**G - Alcohol** - Alcohol consumption is not a known predisposing factor for AD.

