### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Benzodiazepine withdrawal** - Benzodiazepine withdrawal due to administration of its antagonist, flumazenil, may precipitate withdrawal seizure, especially in patients with high tolerance to benzodiazepines from chronic use. If benzodiazepine dependence is suspected, an anticonvulsant (e.g., carbamazepine) is indicated as seizure prophylaxis. Because of the high risk of withdrawal seizure and the relatively low rates of benzodiazepine overdose, the use of flumazenil should only be administered in a controlled setting in cases of severe respiratory depression.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hyponatremia** - Severe hyponatremia (< 115 mEq/L) or rapid changes in sodium levels can significantly lower the seizure threshold and cause altered mental status. Acute altered mental status is a risk factor for dehydration, but it would induce mild rather than severe hyponatremia.

**B - Hypoxic-ischemic brain injury** - Anoxic or hypoxic brain injury from prolonged respiratory depression could precipitate seizure. However, this would typically occur 24 hours after injury. Because this patient's seizure occurred after administration of an antagonizing drug, another etiology is more likely.

**C - Hypoglycemia** - Severe hypoglycemia (< 40 mg/dL) can cause altered mental status (drowsiness, diaphoresis) and seizures but typically does not occur without a predisposing condition (e.g., diabetes mellitus, insulin overdose). This patient has only mild hypoglycemia, probably due to her alcohol consumption (assuming she does have polysubstance use disorder), meaning another cause is much more likely to have caused the seizure.

**E - Alcohol withdrawal** - Alcohol withdrawal is a common cause of seizures in adults and tends to occur 24–48 hours after cessation. The timing of the patient's last drink is unclear, however, the fact that her seizure occurred soon after the administration of an antagonizing drug makes another cause much more likely.

**F - Fentanyl overdose** - The combination of opiates and benzodiazepines can cause severe respiratory depression. While anoxic brain injury from prolonged respiratory depression can cause a seizure, it would have been prevented by naloxone in this patient. Opiate overdose or withdrawal alone does not induce seizures.

**G - Subdural hemorrhage** - Polysubstance abuse and altered mental status are risk factors for head injury. Seizures can be a complication of increased intracranial pressure. Signs of increased intracranial pressure include elevated blood pressure, irregular breathing, and bradycardia (Cushing reflex), as well as possible focal neurological deficits (sign of herniation), none of which is present in this patient. Palpable hematomas are not a sign of intracranial hemorrhage.

