### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Rett syndrome** - Rett syndrome is a rare neurodevelopmental disorder that is almost exclusively seen in girls; de novo mutations in the MECP2 gene on the X chromosome mainly occur during the formation of sperm cells. Manifestations of Rett syndrome typically appear between the ages of 6 and 18 months. Affected individuals initially develop normally but then have milestone regression in all domains (motor, language, and cognitive abilities). Other features include seizures, growth failure (especially in relation to head circumference), and characteristic hand movements (e.g., rubbing, wringing) and vocal grunting, as seen here. Patients who retain the ability to walk often have a broad-based, ataxic gait.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Autism spectrum disorder** - Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) has an onset during early childhood and can cause milestone regression in language and social skill domains as well as stereotyped body movements (e.g., hand rubbing). However, ASD does not cause seizures or disruptions in the development of motor milestones.

**C - Cerebral palsy** - Cerebral palsy can cause delayed development and is associated with an increased risk of seizures. However, it does not cause milestone regression. In addition, this patient does not have risk factors for this condition, such as premature birth, antenatal asphyxia, head trauma, or a history of central nervous system infection. Moreover, she does not have other typical manifestations of cerebral palsy (e.g., upper motor neuron signs); her deep tendon reflexes are normal and Babinski sign is absent.

**D - Duchenne muscular dystrophy** - Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) has an onset during early childhood and can cause difficulties in walking or standing up from a seated position after a period of normal motor development. However, DMD almost always affects boys (X-linked recessive) and does not cause seizures, stereotyped body movements (e.g., hand rubbing), or disruptions in the development of language and social milestones.

**E - Fragile X syndrome** - Fragile X syndrome has an onset during early childhood, can affect girls (X-linked dominant), and causes seizures and milestone regression in language and social skill domains. However, it does not cause disruptions in the development of motor milestones or stereotyped body movements (e.g., hand rubbing). In addition, fragile X syndrome is associated with dysmorphic features, including a long face with a prominent jaw and large everted ears, which this patient does not have.

**F - Angelman syndrome** - Angelman syndrome can cause seizures, disruptions in motor and speech development, and abnormal movements (e.g., hand flapping). Although it can result in delayed development, it does not typically cause milestone regression. In addition, avoidance of eye contact is not a feature of Angelman syndrome. In contrast, children with this condition are typically sociable and have a happy demeanor. Other characteristic features of Angelman syndrome include childhood insomnia and a fascination with water, which this patient does not have.

