### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Increased absolute eosinophil count** - Increased absolute eosinophil count is seen in DRESS (drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms) syndrome, which is a potentially fatal drug-induced hypersensitivity reaction that can occur 1–8 weeks after exposure to a substance such as an antiepileptic drug (e.g., lamotrigine, phenytoin, carbamazepine), allopurinol, or antibiotics (e.g., sulfonamide). As seen in this patient, DRESS is characterized by systemic inflammation with typical involvement of the skin (e,g., itching rash and facial edema), liver (e.g., elevated liver function tests, hepatomegaly), lymphoid tissue (e.g., diffuse lymphadenopathy), and blood (e.g., thrombocytopenia, atypical lymphocytosis, eosinophilia).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Fragmented red blood cells** - Fragmented red blood cells (schistocytes) on peripheral blood smear are seen in microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (MAHA). In children, MAHA is usually caused by hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS), which, in addition, presents with thrombocytopenia and acute renal failure following dysentery due to toxin-producing bacteria. This patient's presentation is not consistent with HUS.

**C - Positive heterophile antibody test** - The heterophile antibody test is used for the diagnosis of infection with EBV (infectious mononucleosis), which commonly presents with fever, hepatomegaly, and lymphadenopathy, as seen in this patient. However, further symptoms would include splenomegaly and pharyngitis. Furthermore, a rash would usually only develop after antibiotic treatment and facial edema would not be expected.

**D - Anti-measles IgM antibodies** - Anti-measles IgM antibodies are found in acute measles infection, which could present with fever, lymphadenopathy, and a diffuse morbilliform rash of the head, trunk, and extremities. However, other symptoms, such as conjunctivitis, cough, coryza, and pathognomic Koplik spots on oral mucosa would be expected, but not facial edema and hepatomegaly. Furthermore, this patient's immunizations are up-to-date, making the diagnosis of acute measles virus infection unlikely.

**E - Elevated antistreptolysin-O titer** - Antistreptolysin O (ASO) levels are primarily measured to assess for recent infections in patients presenting with complications of streptococcal tonsillitis (e.g., scarlet fever, rheumatic fever), but not for acute infections. While scarlet fever also involves the skin, a sandpaper-like rash would be expected, not the partially confluent morbilliform rash seen in this patient. Furthermore, this girls lacks other features of scarlet fever such as pharyngitis, flushed cheeks with perioral pallor and a white-coated or strawberry-red tongue and instead shows facial edema and hepatomegaly, which would not be expected.

