### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Retrospective cohort study** - Because the researchers followed individual patients with a certain trait (cocaine use) to determine if they had developed syphilis via chart review (i.e., retrospectively), they conducted a retrospective cohort study. This type of study begins with the selection of individuals who are determined to have either been exposed or not exposed to a risk factor of interest based on chart review. Individuals are then assessed retrospectively to see if they have or have not developed a certain disease or outcome. Retrospective cohort studies are time-saving and relatively inexpensive, as they involve the analysis of data that has already been collected. Cohort studies are well suited to determining the incidence of a disease and allow for the relative risk (RR) of developing a disease of interest to be calculated. Here, the RR of developing syphilis is 1.3 in active cocaine users compared to patients without this risk factor.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Prospective cohort study** - A prospective cohort study also investigates individuals who are exposed or not exposed to a particular risk factor (e.g., cocaine use). These individuals are then followed for a period of time to see if they develop the disease of interest (e.g., syphilis). However, the data in this particular case was collected from past medical records. In addition, following a group of cocaine users prospectively over a period of time until they develop a syphilis infection would be time-consuming and ethically questionable. If a strong relationship between cocaine use and syphilis infection is suspected, preventative measures should be encouraged (e.g., safer sex education, supply of condoms) rather than simply waiting for the cocaine users to become infected.

**B - Meta-analysis** - In a meta-analysis, data from multiple studies is pooled to increase statistical power and to identify discrepancies between and/or common effects among studies. Here, the research group conducted an individual study.

**C - Ecological study** - An ecological study is an observational study in which aggregate data collected at the population level (e.g., population of different countries, cities, or socioeconomic groups) is assessed for exposures and/or outcomes. For instance, rather than collecting data from individual patients on cocaine use and history of syphilis infection, an ecological study might involve the collection of data from individual cities or communities.

**D - Case series** - A case series is a quantitative compilation of similar individual cases and does not allow conclusions about causal relationships to be drawn. At best, a hypothesis might be suggested based on several observed cases. In a case series, there are no comparison groups, which means that relative risks cannot be determined.

**E - Single-blind clinical trial** - In a single-blind clinical trial, only researchers know who is a control or treatment candidate. This study was of an observational nature, however, and did not involve administration or testing of a treatment.

**F - Double-blind clinical trial** - In a double-blind clinical trial, neither the researcher nor the study participants know who is a control or treatment candidate. This study was of an observational nature, however, and did not involve administration or testing of a treatment.

**H - Cross-sectional study** - A cross-sectional study determines the prevalence of variables of interest simultaneously, at a specific point in time (snapshot study). It would not allow conclusions to be drawn about correlations over time; it could not, for instance, show that cocaine use preceded a syphilis infection.

**I - Case-control study** - Case-control studies are helpful for determining the presence of risk factors for (rare) diseases. They involve two groups: one with the disease of interest (case group: syphilis), and one without the disease (control group: no syphilis). The risk of exposure to a risk factor of interest (e.g., cocaine use) is then determined. Here, the investigators had already defined the risk factor of interest (active cocaine use) and wanted to assess the outcome (new cases of syphilis). Case-control studies report the odds ratio (OR), which reflects whether patients with a certain outcome are more likely to have been exposed to the risk factor (positive association if OR > 1).

