### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Osmotic myelinolysis** - Osmotic myelinolysis develops when there is damage to the myelin sheath of nerves in the CNS. It is caused by a sudden rise in the osmolarity of blood, which results in increased movement of fluid from the interstitial space of the brain to the intravascular compartment in order to maintain an osmotic balance. This patient likely has chronic hyponatremia due to his excess drinking (referred to as beer potomania), which causes chronic brain swelling. When sodium levels are increased too quickly, especially in patients with sodium levels < 120 meq/L, the fluid shifts causes the brain to shrink and demyelinate. As such, it is recommended that serum sodium levels be raised by less than 6 to 8 meq/L within 24 hours, at a rate of 0.5–1 mEq/L per hour.

Image File: 1151-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b2cdb7c448af.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cerebral edema** - Cerebral edema can develop as a complication of overly rapid correction of hypernatremia, not hyponatremia, as seen in this patient. Chronic hypernatremia causes an expansion of the intravascular volume; when sodium levels are acutely decreased, fluid shifts to the extravascular space causing brain swelling and edema, which can result in seizures, and at times, permanent neurologic deficits and death. As such, it is recommended that sodium levels be decreased by 12 mEq/L per day.

**B - Respiratory depression** - Respiratory depression in the setting of alcohol abuse would be seen in patients in which benzodiazepines are given to prevent alcohol withdrawal syndrome. While this patient presented after a seizure (vigorously shaking for about 1 minute, urinated on himself), which can be seen in alcohol withdrawal syndrome, he has no features of ongoing withdrawal such as anxiety, palpitations, sweating, and autonomic hyperactivity. Additionally, withdrawal manifestations typically develop after six hours from the last alcoholic beverage, this patient's last drink was two hours ago, making this diagnosis unlikely.

**C - Cardiac arrhythmia** - Cardiac arrhythmias are unlikely to develop from excess sodium correction. Arrhythmias can happen in extreme cases of hypernatremia (Na+ > 190 mmol/l), but it is a rare complication of rapid correction of hyponatremia. Potassium fluctuations, on the other hand, are associated with increased risk of arrhythmias. This patient's vital signs and potassium are within normal limits, making a cardiac condition unlikely to be the cause of his presentation.

**D - Hyperglycemia** - Hyperglycemia can be seen in patients given dextrose-containing intravenous fluids at a rapid rate for correction of hypernatremia. This patient, however, will likely be treated with hypertonic saline given his sodium level of 112 mmol/l.

**F - Wernicke encephalopathy** - Wernicke encephalopathy is an acute and reversible emergency caused by severe thiamine (vitamin B1) deficiency. It is mainly seen in the context of alcohol abuse. While this patient has a history of chronic alcohol intake and is currently confused, he lacks other classic features of Wernicke encephalopathy such as ataxia and ophthalmoplegia, making this diagnosis unlikely. In patients with suspected Wernicke encephalopathy, thiamine should always be administered before glucose, as glucose increases thiamine demand and can worsen encephalopathy.

