### ** Correct Answer: **

**I - I** - Personality changes, inappropriate behavior, and overeating (particularly of sweet foods) in a middle-aged adult with intact cognitive function is highly suspicious for frontotemporal dementia. This condition has a rapid progression compared to other dementias (e.g., Alzheimer's disease), with patients surviving an average of six years after symptom onset. In later stages, parkinsonism is also common.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - Alzheimer disease presents with cognitive and behavioral changes. However, Alzheimer disease usually is associated with short-term memory loss and temporospatial disorientation, which are absent in this patient. Additionally, Alzheimer disease usually has an insidious progression, whereas this patient's symptoms have progressed over the course of 6 months.

**B - B** - Parkinson disease (PD) may cause personality changes, especially in advanced disease. However, patients with PD also present with bradykinesia, rigidity, and tremor, which are absent in this patient.

**C - C** - Advanced cases of Huntington disease present with apathy and other behavioral changes, as seen in this patient. However, this illness has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern and typically also presents with abnormal (choreiform) movements, which are absent in this patient.

**D - D** - Although Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease may present with signs and symptoms of dementia such as the behavioral and personality changes seen in this patient, the neurologic deterioration in this disease usually occurs more rapidly, taking place over the course of weeks-to-months and resulting in death within ∼ 1 year of symptom onset. Patients would also present with other neurological manifestations such as myoclonic jerks, gait instability, seizures, and/or hallucinations.

**E - E** - Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis typically presents in patients 50–60 years old and may cause behavioral changes in late stages of the disease. However, ALS causes chronic, progressive, asymmetric limb weakness, fasciculations, cramps, and muscle stiffness, which are absent in this patient.

**F - F** - Advanced multiple sclerosis may cause cognitive changes in some patients. However, patient's with MS have a history of relapsing/remitting weakness, numbness, and loss of balance, none of which are present in this patient. Additionally, it typically presents with impaired vision, color blindness, Lhermitte's sign, absent abdominal reflex, and/or signs of upper motor neuron dysfunction (e.g., spasticity, positive Babinski's sign), which are also absent in this patient.

**G - G** - Although Wilson disease may present with behavioral changes, it usually presents with liver disease and neurologic features such as dysarthria, parkinsonism, and drooling, which this patient does not have. Additionally, the disease typically appears in patients < 35 years of age.

**H - H** - Although normal pressure hydrocephalus is a potential cause of dementia, it typically presents with gait disturbances, cognitive dysfunction, and urinary incontinence (remember: “wet, wacky, and wobbly”), which this patient lacks. Additionally, NPH usually presents in older patients (> 60 years of age) or as a consequence of CNS infections and intracranial hemorrhages.

