### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Epidural blood injection** - An epidural blood patch is indicated for severe or refractory post-lumbar puncture headaches from CSF leak syndrome. Autologous blood injected at the site of the lumbar puncture seals the hole in the dura and resolves the CSF leak that causes the postural headache.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Aspirin therapy** - While aspirin can be used as an analgesic for some headaches, use of an antiplatelet agent is not recommended after an invasive procedure because it increases the risk of bleeding. Trial of an alternative agent (e.g. acetaminophen) may be more appropriate for this patient.

**B - CT angiography of the head** - CT angiography of the head allows visualization of blood vessels and can help identify the source of an intracranial hemorrhage or cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT), which this patient is at risk of developing (due to pregnancy). While both intracranial hemorrhage and CVT typically present with headache, this patient shows no signs of intracranial hypertension (e.g., papilledema, diplopia) or focal neurologic deficits, making these diagnoses unlikely. Furthermore, a noncontrast CT scan (rather than CT angiography) would be the initial test of choice. CT angiography is unlikely to reveal the site of the dural puncture causing this patient's postdural headache and will not improve her symptoms.

**C - Cerebrospinal fluid analysis** - Cerebrospinal fluid analysis is used to diagnose CNS infection (e.g., meningitis), autoimmune syndromes (e.g., multiple sclerosis), and malignancy. This patient's neck stiffness, nausea, and vomiting could be consistent with meningitis caused by a septic epidural placement, but this complication is very rare and this patient does not have a fever. Performing another puncture for CSF fluid analysis would most likely worsen this patient's symptoms.

**D - Continued bed rest** - Normally, mild post-lumbar puncture headaches resolve with bed rest. However, this patient has features of a severe headache (e.g., throbbing headache, pain radiating to the neck, and emesis), which makes spontaneous resolution of her symptoms unlikely. This severity of this patient's symptoms warrants further treatment.

**F - Sumatriptan therapy** - Sumatriptan is used as an abortive medication for migraine headaches. Although this patient presents with neck stiffness, nausea, and vomiting, her worsening postural post-lumbar puncture headache is more likely to be due to a CSF leak than a migraine.

