### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Foramen magnum meningioma** - Although the falx cerebri, the supratentorial convex surface, and the sphenoidal wings are the most common locations of meningiomas, in rare cases they also occur at the foramen magnum. Since meningiomas are slow-growing tumors, patients usually present after several months to years of slowly progressive symptoms. Early features include neck pain, which is typically worse with neck flexion and maneuvers that increase ICP (e.g., coughing, sneezing). Later, patients present with long tract signs; sensory and motor deficits typically start in one extremity and spread to the others. Late presentation is characterized by spastic quadriparesis (hyperreflexia, positive Babinski's sign), gait disturbances, and lower cranial nerve palsies (CN IX–XII), which most likely accounts for this patient's dysarthria and atrophy of the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - Cerebellar astrocytoma** - Pilocytic astrocytomas are grade I (benign) astrocytomas that are often localized in the cerebellum and most frequently occur in children and young adults. Signs of cerebellar masses include symptoms of increased intracranial pressure (e.g., headache, nausea, and vomiting), ataxia, and possibly failure to thrive. While an ataxic gait could be caused by a cerebellar tumor, the patient's muscle weakness, sensory symptoms, and dysarthria suggest another diagnosis.

**C - Syringomyelia** - In syringomyelia the compression from the fluid-filled cavity within central spinal cord results in neck pain and a cape-like distribution (neck, shoulders, arms) of dissociated sensory loss, that develops over years. The sensory symptoms in syringomyelia are often exacerbated by maneuvers that increase the intramedullary pressure (e.g., coughing, sneezing). Muscle atrophy is another common feature of syringomyelia and most commonly affects the small muscles of the hand. Other LMN signs, such as fasciculations and areflexia (rather than this patient's hyperreflexia), may also be present. While spastic paraparesis of the limbs is a possible feature of syringomyelia (involvement of the pyramidal tract and first motor neuron), quadriparesis would be uncommon.

Image File: 1162-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59c28529d0700.jpg

**D - Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis** - Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis manifests with signs of UMN (e.g., hyperreflexia, spastic paresis) as well as LMN involvement (e.g., atrophy, fasciculations, and flaccid paresis), both of which are present in this patient. ALS may initially present with bulbar symptoms (e.g., dysarthria, dysphagia) and/or asymmetric limb weakness, which often begins unilaterally in an upper extremity and progresses during the course of disease. Because her only LMN deficit is the result of a lower cranial nerve lesion (sternocleidomastoid muscle atrophy due to CN XI involvement), whereas other typical LMN lesions are missing (muscle atrophy of the extremities and fasciculations), and because ALS is usually a rapidly progressive disease that leads to life-threatening symptoms such as respiratory failure (due to paralysis of respiratory muscles) or weight loss and malnutrition (due to dysphagia) within three years, it is an unlikely diagnosis in this patient.

**E - Multiple sclerosis** - In multiple sclerosis (MS), demyelination of CNS neurons may result in upper motor neuron weakness characterized by spasticity, hyperreflexia, and a positive Babinski's sign. Dysarthria is also present in almost half of all MS cases at some point during the course of the disease. However, the first manifestation is typically retrobulbar neuritis. Furthermore, the most common course of MS is relapsing-remitting, which progresses with alternating phases of exacerbations and remission, rather than simply progressive. Also, atrophy of the CN XI innervated muscles is not a typical feature of MS

Image File: 1162-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_517be8d4c948d.jpg

**F - Cerebral glioblastoma multiforme** - A glioblastoma multiforme is most commonly located in the white matter of the cerebral hemispheres and therefore most frequently manifests with signs of increased intracranial pressure (e.g., headache, seizures). The symptoms develop over a short period of time (several weeks) due to rapid growth of the tumor. While the condition can present with motor weakness, the pattern of symptom progression over 3 years seen in this patient is not consistent with glioblastoma multiforme.

Image File: 1162-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9273c8be.jpg

