### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Provide patient education** - Patient education is the first step of care in patients with conversion disorder as symptoms may resolve after explanation of the diagnosis and its causes. Strategies for presenting the diagnosis to patients include asking about their perspective of the problem, taking their symptoms seriously, explaining clinical features that are inconsistent with neurologic disease, and emphasizing that symptoms are potentially reversible.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Start cognitive behavioral therapy** - Patients who do not respond to first-line management for conversion disorder may benefit from cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT). Strategies for treating conversion disorder with CBT include establishing a shared understanding of the diagnosis, identifying treatment goals, challenging maladaptive behaviors and thoughts (e.g., thinking of functional impairment as permanent), and realistically anticipating setbacks in the treatment course. As this patient has new onset conversion disorder and has never had conversion disorder in the past, a different management approach is indicated here.

**B - Begin a trial of citalopram** - Patients with refractory conversion disorder, who do not respond to conservative therapies may benefit from pharmacotherapy. Antidepressants like citalopram may treat both conversion disorder and common comorbidities such as generalized anxiety disorder or major depressive disorder.

**C - Administer alteplase** - Alteplase (tPA) would be appropriate if this patient was having a stroke, particularly as this patient's symptoms began 4 hours ago, within the therapeutic window for thrombolysis (i.e., within 4.5 hours of symptom onset). However, this patient's inconsistent neurological exam and CT of the head, negative for acute intracranial abnormalities, argue against a cerebrovascular cause of her symptoms.

**E - Start physical therapy** - Physical therapy (PT) may be useful as adjunctive treatment for patients with motor symptoms of conversion disorder but is not a first-line approach. Strategies for treating conversion disorder with PT include encouraging normal functional movement (e.g., transfers and walking) and teaching patients to suppress abnormal movements or deficits (e.g., using distraction techniques).

**F - Prescribe aspirin** - Aspirin would be appropriate if this patient was having a stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA). However, this patient's inconsistent neurological exam and CT of the head, negative for acute intracranial abnormalities, argue against a cerebrovascular cause of her symptoms.

**G - Start biofeedback therapy** - Patients who do not respond to consecutive trials of other conservative treatment approaches for conversion disorder, may benefit from biofeedback. In particular, biofeedback may help treating patients with conversion disorder who suffer from functional tremor. In this patient, another management approach should be tried first.

