### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Measurement of hemoglobin A1c** - Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) can be used to diagnose diabetes mellitus (DM), which is the most common cause of distal symmetric polyneuropathy. One of the major complications of long-term DM is microvascular damage, which typically arises 5–10 years after disease onset and can manifest as diabetic neuropathy. Diabetic polyneuropathy most commonly manifests with a progressive symmetric loss of sensation in the peripheral nerves of the distal extremities, typically in a “stocking-glove” distribution. Affected individuals may report a burning sensation and decreased muscle strength in the affected areas. Obesity is another risk factor for type 2 DM, so diabetic polyneuropathy is the most likely cause of this patient's symptoms.

Other common causes of distal symmetric polyneuropathy include alcohol use and vitamin B12 deficiency, for which this patient has no risk factors.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Lumbar puncture and cerebrospinal fluid analysis** - Lumbar puncture and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis are used in the diagnosis of conditions such as CNS infections (e.g., neuroborreliosis) and inflammatory demyelinating neuropathies (e.g., chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy; CIDP), which can manifest with polyneuropathy. Neuroborreliosis typically manifests with asymmetric polyneuropathy rather than the symmetrical involvement seen here, and motor symptoms are typically more prominent than sensory symptoms in CIDP. Another more prevalent cause is, therefore, more likely.

**B - Nerve conduction studies** - Nerve conduction studies (NCSs) can determine whether neuropathy is caused by axonal degeneration (e.g., due to diabetes mellitus, alcohol use) or primary demyelination (e.g., due to chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, Guillain‑Barré-syndrome) and is usually indicated if the diagnosis remains unclear after initial diagnostic testing. NCS alone cannot provide a precise diagnosis, so another test is more appropriate for confirming the underlying cause of this patient's symptoms.

**D - Measurement of vitamin B12 concentration** - Measurement of serum vitamin B12 concentration is a part of the diagnostic evaluation of patients with polyneuropathy. Although vitamin B12 deficiency can manifest with symmetrical peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy, it causes spastic paresis, rather than the flaccid paresis seen here. Moreover, this patient lacks other typical features of vitamin B12 deficiency, such as signs of anemia (e.g., conjunctival pallor, fatigue) and gait ataxia, and she currently follows a non-vegan diet, meaning that she is not at increased risk of developing vitamin B12 deficiency.

**E - Peripheral nerve biopsy** - A peripheral nerve biopsy can be used in the diagnostic evaluation of patients with polyneuropathy if underlying conditions such as vasculitis or amyloidosis are suspected. These conditions typically manifest with asymmetrical neuropathy rather than the symmetrical involvement seen here. Another less invasive test is more appropriate to confirm the underlying cause of this patient’s symptoms.

