### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Orthostatic hypotension** - Following administration, L-DOPA is absorbed into the systemic circulation where it is partially converted to dopamine by the enzyme DOPA decarboxylase. The remaining L-DOPA is then transported across the blood-brain barrier and enters the central nervous system to produce the desired effects. Carbidopa reduces the peripheral (systemic) conversion of L-DOPA to dopamine, thereby mitigating the peripheral sides effects, including orthostatic hypotension, nausea, and vomiting. Although the combination of carbidopa-levodopa significantly improves drug compliance, many patients still experience some degree of these side effects.

Image File: 1166-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e50fbbab3422.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Resting tremor** - Resting tremor is reduced by L-DOPA therapy. The addition of carbidopa is likely to further reduce the incidence of resting tremor because a combination of these drugs would increase the amount of centrally available dopamine. However, resting tremor is a feature of Parkinson disease and not an adverse effect of L-DOPA therapy.

**C - Urinary retention** - Urinary retention is a common side effect of anticholinergic medications, such as benztropine, that are used to treat Parkinson disease. However, L-DOPA and carbidopa are not associated with urinary retention.

**D - Visual hallucinations** - Visual hallucinations are a central side effect of L-DOPA therapy and they correlate to the concentration of dopamine in the central nervous system. By decreasing the peripheral conversion of L-DOPA to dopamine, carbidopa increases the fraction of the administered drug that crosses the blood-brain barrier. Therefore, visual hallucinations would be expected to increase rather than decrease.

**E - Dyskinesia** - Dyskinesia is a central nervous system side effect of L-DOPA that typically occurs with long-term therapy. By decreasing the peripheral conversion of L-DOPA to dopamine, carbidopa increases the fraction of the administered drug that crosses the blood-brain barrier. Therefore, symptoms of dyskinesia would be expected to increase rather than decrease.

