### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Meningioma** - Meningioma is the most common kind of primary CNS tumor with a median age of diagnosis of 65 years. Around half of all cases have a supratentorial location (e.g., near the falx cerebri, convex cerebral surface, or olfactory groove). On imaging, they appear as a round, well-circumscribed, extra-axial mass that is usually hyperdense on CT and isointense to gray matter on plain MRI. On MRI, they appear intense with homogeneous enhancement (as shown in the accompanying image). Most meningiomas show a marginal dural thickening that tapers peripherally (the "tail sign”). They cause symptoms due to extrinsic compression of brain tissue (i.e., mass effect). Parasagittal meningiomas may cause contralateral spastic paralysis due to compression of the motor cortex.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pituitary adenoma** - Pituitary adenomas typically manifest between 35 and 60 years of age. Headaches and seizures may occur, depending on the size and location of the tumor. However, the motor weakness experienced by this patient would be unusual, and pituitary adenomas with a secretory function would cause endocrine disorders. Additionally, imaging would reveal an intrasellar hyperintense mass with foci of calcification and/or necrosis.

**B - Schwannoma** - Schwannomas are benign tumors that arise from Schwann cells of the cranial and/or peripheral nerves. Acoustic neuroma, the most common schwannoma, typically manifests with sensorineural hearing loss, tinnitus, and facial nerve palsy. However, seizures are uncommon. Additionally, schwannomas appear as heterogeneously hyperintense extra-axial lesions on MRI that are most commonly localized to the cerebellopontine angle. The parasagittal location of this patient's tumor makes schwannoma an unlikely diagnosis.

Image File: 1168-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5639fcbd770cd.jpg

**C - Metastatic brain tumor** - Metastatic brain tumors may manifest with headache, neurological deficits, and/or seizures. However, they are typically circumscribed, multifocal, intra-axial brain tumors, not extra-axial tumors, as seen in this patient.

Image File: 1168-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9147bb87.jpg

**D - Ependymoma** - Ependymomas are intra-axial tumors that arise from ependymal cells that line the walls of the cerebral ventricles and central spinal canal. They most commonly manifest with signs of hydrocephalus due to their location near the fourth ventricle (in children) or the spinal canal (in adults). On imaging, they appear as intra-axial heterogeneous masses with areas of necrosis, calcification, cystic changes, and hemorrhage.

Image File: 1168-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59f0ac68c9a86.jpg

**E - Oligodendroglioma** - Oligodendrogliomas are most common among individuals 40–60 years of age and can manifest with seizures, as seen in this patient. However, on CT imaging, they usually appear as hypodense, intra-axial tumors containing focal hyperdense regions (due to calcification and/or hemorrhage). The hyperdense, extra-axial mass seen in this patient makes oligodendroglioma an unlikely diagnosis.

Image File: 1168-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60390ab77bdc3.jpg

**G - Glioblastoma multiforme** - Glioblastoma multiforme almost always occurs in patients over the age of 40 and may manifest with seizures. However, on CT scan, glioblastoma multiforme appears as a poorly demarcated, hypodense, intra-axial lesion that tends to infiltrate along condensed white matter tracts such as the corticospinal tract and the corpus callosum. The presence of a hyperdense, extra-axial mass in this patient makes the diagnosis of glioblastoma multiforme unlikely.

Image File: 1168-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5769bf9cea8eb.jpg

