### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Inhibition of acetylcholinesterase** - Cholinesterase inhibitors are used to manage the symptoms of myasthenia gravis (MG) because they increase the availability of endogenous acetylcholine (ACh) in the neuromuscular junction, which competes with the ACh receptor antibodies that would otherwise block ACh receptors. Pyridostigmine or alternatively neostigmine are the preferred drugs, since they only act on peripheral ACh receptors and do not cross the blood-brain barrier, which limits their adverse effects.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Inhibition of muscarinic ACh receptor** - Muscarinic ACh receptor antagonists (e.g., atropine) can be used to treat patients with excess ACh due to organophosphate poisoning or cholinesterase inhibitor overdose. However, clinical features indicating excess ACh, such as diarrhea, increased secretions, and muscle tremors, are absent in this patient.

**B - Regeneration of acetylcholinesterase** - Choline-reactivating oximes, such as pralidoxime, are effective antidotes in organophosphate (insecticide) poisoning. Patients with organophosphate poisoning present with increased salivation, lacrimation, diarrhea, bronchospasm, tremor, and paralysis, which this patient does not have.

**C - Stimulation of D2 receptors** - D2 receptors agonists (e.g., bromocriptine and pramipexole) can be used to treat Parkinson disease but are not used in the management of MG. While Parkinson disease manifests with weakness, it also presents with other symptoms such as tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, masked face, not the bilateral eyelid droop and decreased lung volumes seen in this patient.

**D - Stimulation of β2 adrenergic receptors** - β2 adrenergic receptor agonists (e.g., albuterol, salmeterol, and formoterol) may be used to treat COPD. Although this patient's smoking history puts him at increased risk of developing COPD, he lacks all of the typical symptoms, such as chronic cough with sputum and dyspnea. β2 adrenergic agonists are not effective in myasthenia gravis (MG).

