### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Unpaired two-sample t-test** - The unpaired two-sample t-test is the appropriate statistical test in this scenario because the researchers are comparing the difference between the means of a continuous outcome variable of 2 predictor groups. Two-sample t-test can be used to determine whether the average weight loss is significantly different between the surgical and non-surgical groups. The null hypothesis for this test is that the two sample means are equal. If the means are statistically significantly different from each other, the null hypothesis can be rejected.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Chi-square test** - The chi-square test is used to determine if there is a relationship between two or more categorical variables. It tests whether the difference between two proportions is statistically significant. In the case above, the researchers are trying to determine if there is a relationship between a categorical predictor variable (surgical versus non-surgical) and a continuous outcome variable (average weight loss). Consequently, the chi-square test is not applicable. Chi-square test could be used, for example, to assess if there is a statistically significant difference between BMI > 40 kg/m2 and gender.

**B - Paired two-sample t-test** - A paired t-test is used to compare the means of a continuous outcome variable of one predictor group at two points of time. While the researchers are indeed comparing the difference between the means of a continuous outcome variable, they do so for two separate predictor groups at a single point of time. Consequently, a paired t-test would not be appropriate. A paired t-test could be used, for example, if the researchers were comparing the weight at baseline and 3 months after surgery in the surgical group.

**C - Analysis of variance** - Analysis of variance (ANOVA) tests are used to compare the difference between the means of a continuous outcome variable of three or more sample populations. In the case above, there are only two sample populations (non-surgical and surgical), so ANOVA would not be the appropriate test. ANOVA could have been used, for example, if the researchers were comparing the means of three groups, e.g., surgical, diet-mediated, and pharmacological weight loss.

**D - Kaplan-Meier analysis** - Kaplan-Meier analysis is used to determine the incidence of an event over time (e.g., myocardial infarction, death, etc.). In this study, the difference in weight loss is measured in two sample groups, without tracking the onset of events in time. Consequently, Kaplan-Meier analysis is not applicable.

**E - Multiple linear regression** - Multiple linear regression is used to model the relationship between ≥ 2 continuous or categorical predictor variables and a continuous outcome variable. Although multivariable regression may be useful in this study to control for confounders, the question above calls for a comparison between two sample population means (weight loss in surgical group versus weight loss in non-surgical group). Consequently, multiple linear regression would not be the analysis of choice. Multiple linear regression could be used, for example, to evaluate the effects of gender, age, and average working hours on BMI.

**F - Pearson correlation coefficient** - Pearson correlation coefficient (r) measures whether there is a linear association between two continuous variables. In the case above, the researchers wish to compare the difference between two means (weight loss in surgical group versus weight loss in non-surgical group). Consequently, the Pearson correlation coefficient is not applicable. The correlation coefficient would be an appropriate test for example to assess the relationship between BMI and serum cholesterol levels.

