### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Amyloid angiopathy** - Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a common cause of spontaneous cortical intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in elderly patients. CAA narrows the lumen of blood vessels and causes microaneurysms that may rupture spontaneously. In this patient's case, his age, complete medical history (no history of trauma), neurological symptoms (TIA-like symptoms), and radiological findings (both acute and subacute cortical hemorrhages) make CAA the most likely underlying cause of the hemorrhage.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Vascular lipohyalinosis** - Vascular lipohyalinosis of the cerebral vessel walls is the most common cause of spontaneous nontraumatic intracerebral hemorrhage, mostly presenting as a subcortical cerebral hemorrhage (lacunar strokes) within the basal ganglia. However, the most important predisposing factor for lipophyalinosis is chronic hypertension, which is absent in this patient's medical history.

Image File: 1170-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589ddf9acad79.jpg

**B - Ruptured vascular malformation** - A ruptured vascular malformation (e.g., saccular aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations) is a common cause of hemorrhage, which typically presents with acute neurologic symptoms such as this patient's headache or aphasia. However, it is more common in younger patients, and radiological findings would show an acute intraparenchymal hemorrhage, unlike the acute and old cortical hemorrhages seen in this patient.

**C - Hypertensive encephalopathy** - Hypertensive encephalopathy occurs as a result of a sudden, sustained rise in blood pressure, which presents with diffuse headache. However, findings would also include vomiting, confusion, seizure, blurry vision, and papilledema, but not aphasia. Also, radiological findings would show cerebral edema, unlike the acute and old cortical hemorrhages seen in this patient. Additionally, this patient has no history of hypertension, making hypertensive encephalopathy very unlikely.

**D - Intracerebral malignancy** - Intracerebral malignancy should be suspected in patients with primary or metastatic brain tumors. Malignant and hypervascular neoplasms have the highest predilection for hemorrhage. Patients with intracerebral hemorrhage from a malignancy may present with neurological symptoms such as this patient's headache and aphasia. However, headache would be due to hydrocephalus and increased ICP, and radiological findings would show one or several masses in association with the hemorrhages.

**E - Cardiac embolism** - Cardiac embolism is a cause of ischemic strokes, and its symptoms usually vary depending on the occluded cerebral vessel but may include headache and aphasia. However, they are typically seen in patients with cardiac wall and chamber abnormalities (e.g., patent foramen ovale) as well as valve disorders (e.g., prosthetic valves) and arrhythmias (e.g., atrial fibrillation), none of which this patient has.

Image File: 1170-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d947a8a1d.jpg

