### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Presbycusis** - Presbycusis is a form of sensorineural hearing loss, which is identified by a bilateral positive Rinne test and no lateralization on Weber test. It is a multifactorial process caused by the degeneration of the organ of Corti that gradually develops over the course of years, often identified first by difficulty hearing in crowded spaces.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cerumen impaction** - Cerumen impaction is a buildup of tightly packed cerumen in the outer ear. It often presents with unilateral conductive hearing loss and earache, and is easily diagnosed by direct visualization by otoscopic examination. This patient has bilateral sensorineural hearing loss and clear tympanic membranes on exam.

**B - Ototoxicity** - Ototoxicity typically manifest with bilateral sensorineural hearing loss as seen in this patient. However, the patient does not report being exposed to any classic ototoxic drug such as aminoglycosides, furosemide, cisplatin or aspirin. Furthermore, ototoxicity often presents with additional symptoms like tinnitus, nystagmus, and dizziness, which are absent in this patient.

**C - Otosclerosis** - Otosclerosis predominantly affects females 20–40 years of age and leads to conductive hearing loss, usually ultimately bilateral, which presents with a negative Rinne test as opposed to the sensorineural hearing loss seen in this patient. Additionally, patients also develop tinnitus, and usually hear better in noisy rather than quiet surroundings.

**D - Cholesteatoma** - Cholesteatoma presents with conductive hearing loss, which would lead to a negative Rinne test, and if unilateral, a lateralization to the affected ear on Weber test. In addition, it typically leads to painless otorrhea and a brownish, irregular mass on otoscopy. Neither of these features are present in this patient who presents with sensorineural hearing loss.

**E - Vestibulocochlear nerve damage** - Although a vestibulocochlear nerve lesion presents with sensorineural hearing loss, it also leads to vestibular symptoms such as vertigo or horizontal nystagmus, none of which are present in this patient.

**G - Acoustic neuroma** - Acoustic neuromas are benign tumors that often lead to sensorineural hearing loss, and could become bilateral in cases of neurofibromatosis type 2. However, hearing loss would typically initially be asymmetric and also often present with tinnitus and vestibular nerve involvement, resulting in dizziness, unsteady gait, and disequilibrium. These findings are not seen in this patient.

