### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Crossover** - In a crossover study design, every participant receives all the interventions but at different times and/or in a different sequence. In the study described in this vignette, all the participants sequentially received tDCS and sham tDCS (i.e., the groups crossed over). A washout period between treatments is commonly included in crossover studies to enable any potentially confounding effects of the first treatment to wear off prior to starting the sequential treatment.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pretest-posttest** - In a pretest-posttest study design, data (e.g., a test score, a laboratory study) is collected before and after an intervention (e.g., a new teaching method, administration of a new drug) in order to study the effect of the intervention. All the participants of a pretest-posttest study receive the same single intervention, unlike in this study, where one group received tDCS and another received sham tDCS.

**B - Case-control** - A case-control design is an observational study in which a particular risk factor (e.g., smoking) is retroactively assessed in two groups, which are selected according to the presence/absence of a particular outcome (e.g., lung cancer). The investigator does not intervene in an observational study, unlike in the experimental study described here, where the participants received tDCS/sham tDCS.

**D - Meta-analysis** - In a meta-analysis, the results of multiple similar studies are pooled and analyzed in order to improve the statistical power of the results. The study described in this vignette is a single epidemiological study.

**E - Parallel group** - In a parallel group design, participants are randomized into different groups (treatment vs. placebo) and remain within that group until the end of the study. The participants in the study here switched groups after a week to experience both interventions, so this is not a parallel group study.

**F - Factorial** - A factorial study tests the effects of two or more interventions simultaneously, each with two or more independent variables. The study described is testing the effect of only one intervention (tDCS on cognitive performance in a certain group of patients), so it is not a factorial study.

