### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Tardive dyskinesia** - Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a drug-induced hyperkinetic movement disorder that usually presents within months to years of antipsychotic use with repetitive involuntary movements (e.g., lip smacking), as seen in this patient. TD may persist even after discontinuation of the offending drug and can be irreversible. Extrapyramidal symptoms generally occur more frequently in conjunction with typical antipsychotics (e.g., fluphenazine), which this patient has received for 2 years, and to a lesser extent with atypical antipsychotics (e.g., risperidone).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Tourette syndrome** - Tourette syndrome is a tic disorder characterized by rapid, involuntary motor and vocal tics that occur several times daily on most days. It is not associated with antipsychotic drug treatment, but with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder. Onset is typically before the age of 18.

**B - Cerebellar stroke** - A cerebellar stroke typically presents with acute onset headache, nausea, vomiting, and cerebellar signs. Repetitive involuntary movements as seen in this patient would not be present. Moreover, this patient has no risk factors associated with acute stroke (e.g., hypertension, hyperlipidemia, smoking history).

**C - Neuroleptic malignant syndrome** - Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a life-threatening condition that usually appears within the first 2 weeks of treatment with antipsychotic medications (most often typical antipsychotics, e.g., haloperidol). Repetitive involuntary movements as seen in this patient would not be present. Instead, NMS is characterized by hyperthermia, muscular rigidity, autonomic instability, and mental status change. Cessation of the offending drug is the single most important treatment.

**D - Akathisia** - Akathisia is the most common form of antipsychotic-induced extrapyramidal symptoms, usually presenting within a week to a few months of treatment and manifesting with restlessness and a compelling urge to move. While constant movements, as seen in this patient, may occur, they are not entirely involuntary, repetitive, or purposeless and are more a result of an inability to sit still.

**E - Acute dystonia** - Acute dystonia typically presents within hours to days after the intake of antipsychotics and manifests with painful and lasting muscle spasms that predominantly affect the head, neck (torticollis), and tongue. Unlike in this patient, movements are nonrepetitive and affect a single muscle group.

**G - Pseudoparkinsonism** - Pseudoparkinsonism may develop days to weeks after initiating therapy with an antipsychotic drug and manifests with the classic symptoms of parkinsonism (e.g., cogwheel rigidity, stiff gait, and tremor). Repetitive involuntary movements as seen in this patient would not be present. Medications associated with pseudoparkinsonism include typical antipsychotics (e.g., haloperidol), some antiemetics (e.g., metoclopramide), valproate, and lithium.

