### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Anterior cord syndrome** - Anterior cord syndrome, which is caused by damage to the anterior ⅔ of the spinal cord, manifests bilaterally, with lower motor neuron deficit at the level of the lesion (anterior horn damage), and decreased pain and temperature sensation (spinothalamic tract damage) and upper motor neuron deficit (lateral corticospinal tract damage) below the level of the lesion. In anterior cord syndrome, proprioception and vibration sense are preserved because the posterior spinal arteries provide blood supply to the dorsal columns. Anterior cord syndrome may occur as a complication of an aortic aneurysm itself or iatrogenically during the repair of the aneurysm (due to damage to the anterior spinal artery and/or artery of Adamkiewicz). The thoracolumbar segment of the spinal cord is a watershed area and is, therefore, the most common site of infarction, as seen here. Other causes of anterior cord syndrome include trauma (e.g., penetrating injury), hypotension (e.g., from severe hemorrhage), and compression (e.g., tumors, cervical spondylosis).

Image File: 1182-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ea2f383def6e.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Leriche syndrome** - Leriche syndrome (i.e., aortoiliac occlusive disease) is caused by peripheral artery disease at the level of the aortic bifurcation or bilateral occlusion of the iliac arteries. This condition manifests as the triad of thigh/hip claudication, erectile dysfunction, and absent/diminished femoral pulses, which this patient does not have. Moreover, this patient presents with severe thoracolumbar pain, lower extremity numbness, and lower extremity muscle weakness, which would not be expected in Leriche syndrome.

**C - Brown-Séquard syndrome** - Brown-Séquard syndrome occurs as a result of hemisection of the spinal cord and manifests as an ipsilateral loss of proprioception, fine touch, and vibration sense (dorsal column damage), contralateral loss of pain and temperature sensation (spinothalamic tract damage), ipsilateral lower motor neuron deficit at the level of the lesion (anterior horn damage), and ipsilateral upper motor neuron deficit below the level of the lesion (corticospinal tract damage). This is not consistent with the bilateral loss of pain and temperature sensation and bilateral weakness in lower extremities seen here. Moreover, this patient's proprioception and fine touch are intact bilaterally.

Image File: 1182-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5c6166ebebf55.jpg

**D - Central cord syndrome** - Central cord syndrome can manifest as bilateral loss of pain and temperature sensation (damage to the decussating fibers of the spinothalamic tract at the anterior white commissure) and bilateral paresis of the extremities (damage to lateral corticospinal tracts), as seen here. However, the paresis is usually worse in the upper extremities (especially the hands) when compared to the lower extremities (upper extremity tracts are more medial than lower extremity tracts). Moreover, central cord syndrome is commonly associated with pain and temperature loss in a “cape-like” distribution across the upper back and down the posterior upper extremities, which is not seen here.

**E - Posterior cord syndrome** - Posterior cord syndrome affects the dorsal columns. It would manifest as a loss of proprioception, fine touch, and vibration sense below the level of the lesion, with preserved muscle strength and pain and temperature sensation, which is not consistent with this patient's presentation.

**F - Spinal epidural hematoma** - Spinal epidural hematoma can cause acute spinal cord compression and manifest as back pain and lower extremity weakness and numbness, as seen in this patient. However, spinal epidural hematoma typically occurs following puncture of the dura mater that causes damage to the vertebral venous plexus (e.g., following lumbar puncture, after pulling a dural catheter) rather than following an aortic aneurysm repair.

