### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Carbamazepine** - Carbamazepine is recommended as first-line treatment for trigeminal neuralgia and epilepsy. Side effects of carbamazepine include vertigo, sedation, and diplopia. Nevertheless, it has proven effective in the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia and may be used as a monotherapy.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Amitriptyline** - Although amitriptyline may be used to treat depression associated with trigeminal neuralgia, this patient lacks symptoms of depression (e.g., continuous low mood, lack of energy, feelings of hopelessness) and would likely not benefit from this drug.

**B - Microvascular decompression** - While microvascular decompression is used to provide relief in cases of refractory trigeminal neuralgia, it is an invasive procedure. As such, it entails a risk of nerve damage, which may lead to hearing loss, facial numbness, or diplopia (double vision) and should not be used as first-line therapy.

**C - Botulinum toxin injection** - Botulinum toxin injection into a facial muscle is indicated for blepharospasm, and some studies also support the use of this therapy for refractory trigeminal neuralgia. However, there is not enough evidence supporting the use of botulinum toxin in the management of trigeminal neuralgia for it to be considered a first-line treatment.

**D - Radiofrequency rhizotomy** - Radiofrequency rhizotomy refers to the application of heat to the trigeminal ganglion or root using a cannula that is passed through the foramen ovale. This is an ablative procedure that may help in cases of cluster headaches and refractory trigeminal neuralgia, but this patient does not have a history of pain refractory to a recommended first-line therapy.

