### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - CT scan of the head** - A CT scan of the head should be done as quickly as possible when a stroke is suspected because the results of the CT scan essentially dictate all further emergent patient management. Morbidity and mortality can be significantly reduced if an ischemic stroke is treated rapidly (“Time is brain!”). Most importantly, CT is required to rule out hemorrhagic stroke, although signs of ischemia (e.g., hypoattenuation or large clots in a blood vessel) may also be seen.

Image File: 1187-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5903115fc4708.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - MRI of the brain** - Brain MRI is should be done once initial workup and treatment of acute stroke is complete. While MRI provides much more specific data regarding brain damage from stroke, it is not readily available in the emergency setting and often takes hours to acquire and interpret. Thus, another more rapidly available diagnostic test is indicated in the time-sensitive workup of suspected stroke.

**B - Lumbar puncture** - Lumbar puncture is the gold standard for diagnosis of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), which typically presents with thunderclap headache that rapidly progresses to nausea, vomiting, cardiovascular dysfunction, coma, and then death. SAH can cause stroke, but it can be ruled out clinically, as this patient lacks the characteristic history of sudden-onset, severe headache (present in 97% of SAH patients).

**C - Duplex ultrasonography of the neck** - Duplex ultrasonography of the neck is used to identify carotid stenosis, for which this patient is at high risk (as suggested by carotid bruit and likely thromboembolic stroke), but the treatment of this patient's stroke takes priority over confirming carotid stenosis; confirmation of carotid stenosis would not affect acute stroke management. Duplex ultrasonography would likely be performed later on in management, once the acute phase of the stroke has been managed.

**D - Cerebral angiography** - Cerebral angiography is indicated in cases of suspected stroke caused by large vessel occlusion because of its high sensitivity for that disease and potential in-situ treatment (e.g., thrombectomy). However, this patient is more likely to have small vessel thromboembolic stroke (he is alert, oriented, and has specific focal symptoms), so angiography does not provide any benefits in comparison to other faster and less invasive diagnostic methods.

