### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Intravenous alteplase therapy** - Intravenous thrombolytics (e.g., alteplase) are indicated for patients with ischemic stroke without contraindications to thrombolytic therapy. This patient has signs of left-sided stroke with symptoms that began ∼ 1 hour prior and no signs of hemorrhage on his CT scan. The CT scan also shows a hyperdense MCA sign, which is almost certainly the cause of his current symptoms. Thrombolytics are usually only indicated within 3–4.5 hours of symptom onset, as their associated risks exceed their benefit beyond that timeframe. Antiplatelet therapy (typically with aspirin) should be administered 24 hours after thrombolytic therapy.

Image File: 1188-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e5fa7e8238dc.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Decompressive surgery** - Surgical decompression (e.g., craniotomy) is indicated to relieve intracranial hypertension in patients with hemorrhagic stroke if there are signs of brain herniation (e.g., Cushing's triad), brainstem compression, obstructive hydrocephalus, or hemorrhage extension > 3 cm. Although this patient's symptoms are consistent with hemorrhagic stroke, his CT scan rules it out.

Image File: 1188-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d92a3a9ec.jpg

**B - Intravenous labetalol therapy** - Hypotensive agents (e.g., labetalol) are indicated in patients with ischemic stroke whose blood pressure is > 220/120 mm Hg. In ischemic stroke, a certain degree of hypertension (up to 220/120 mm Hg) is helpful in maintaining cerebral perfusion (i.e., permissive hypertension). This patient's blood pressure is not high enough to warrant labetalol therapy, and lowering it may actually worsen his condition by decreasing cerebral perfusion.

**C - Oral aspirin therapy** - Aspirin is indicated for patients with ischemic stroke and should be administered within 24–48 hours of the event. However, within 3–4.5 hours of symptom onset, another step should first be conducted that would make antiplatelet therapy contraindicated for another 24 hours afterwards.

**D - Intravenous methylprednisolone therapy** - Glucocorticoids are commonly used in the acute treatment of stroke to reduce brain inflammation and edema as a result of ischemia. However, there is no conclusive evidence that glucocorticoids actually improve outcomes. Furthermore, they raise the risk of GI bleeding, infection, and hyperglycemia. For these reasons, they are not currently recommended for stroke.

**F - Surgical clipping** - Surgical clipping is indicated for subarachnoid hemorrhage due to ruptured cerebral aneurysm. This patient's history is not consistent with subarachnoid hemorrhage (e.g., thunderclap headache), and his CT scan does not show any signs of ruptured aneurysm.

Image File: 1188-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fdb6002a7ea4.jpg

