### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Pygmalion effect** - Pygmalion effect (observer-expectancy bias) occurs when the experimenter's expectation influences the outcome of the study. In this scenario, patient information was mistakenly disclosed to the investigators during the trial. The investigators' belief in the efficacy of treatment with ginkgo biloba may have influenced data collection and analysis. To avoid this bias, study designs have to include placebo groups and experimenters need to be blinded throughout the study.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Recall bias** - Recall bias occurs when the subject's awareness of a condition alters their recall of exposure to risk factors. This type of bias most commonly occurs in retrospective studies; there is no evidence of recall bias in this scenario.

**C - Hawthorne effect** - Hawthorne effect occurs when individuals in test groups change their behavior once they are aware that they are being observed. The Hawthorne effect is difficult to eliminate in study designs that adhere to informed consent. However, this effect would have occurred in both groups alike and would not have affected the results of the study.

**D - Effect modification** - Effect modification occurs when an exposure has a different effect on different subgroups because of an additional factor internal to the respective subgroups that affects the outcome of the exposure. No such internal factor has been described in this scenario.

**E - Procedure bias** - Procedure bias occurs when individuals in different study groups receive different treatment because of their affiliation with their respective groups. There is no evidence that the two groups were treated differently in this scenario.

**F - Ascertainment bias** - Ascertainment bias (sampling bias) occurs when certain individuals are more likely to be selected for a study group, which results in a nonrandomized, unrepresentative sample of a population. Though patient information was mistakenly disclosed to the investigators, this occurred after treatment groups were established; there is no evidence that the study group was subject to sampling bias.

