### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Rabies immunoglobulin and vaccine** - This patient was bitten by a wild animal known to be a reservoir for the rabies virus. Apart from raccoons, the most common animal reservoirs of rabies in the US are bats, skunks, and foxes. Worldwide, the most common animal reservoir is dogs. Postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) for individuals who have not previously received the vaccine includes both rabies immunoglobulin and vaccine.

In addition, patients with either a clean and/or dirty wound should also be evaluated for tetanus PEP. However, this patient's last tetanus-containing vaccination was < 5 years ago and he has received ≥ 3 doses during his routine childhood vaccination schedule; therefore, tetanus PEP is not indicated in this patient, even in the case of a potentially dirty and/or severe puncture wound.

Image File: 1191-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58a2154daf6d6.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - No action needed** - Despite being vaccinated for tetanus < 5 years ago with ≥ 3 doses during childhood, this patient requires further management after being bitten by a wild animal known to be a reservoir for the rabies virus.

**B - Tetanus booster, rabies vaccine** - A tetanus booster is only indicated as standalone postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) in patients with a dirty and/or severe puncture wound if the last vaccination was ≥ 5 years ago, which is not the case in this patient. In addition, the rabies vaccine is only given as standalone PEP in those who have previously received the rabies vaccine.

**C - Tetanus booster, rabies immunoglobulin** - A tetanus booster would be indicated in patients with a dirty and/or severe puncture wound if the last vaccination was ≥ 5 years ago, which is not the case here. Rabies immunoglobulin is part of rabies postexposure prophylaxis PEP, but it is generally administered with the rabies vaccine.

**D - Rabies vaccination** - Rabies vaccination is given as standalone postexposure prophylaxis in patients who have previously received the rabies vaccine. However, this patient has never received the rabies vaccine as it is not part of the routine childhood immunization schedule.

**E - Tetanus booster, rabies immunoglobulin, and vaccine** - A tetanus booster would be indicated in cases of a dirty and/or severe puncture wound if the last vaccination was ≥ 5 years ago, which is not the case in this patient. Rabies immunoglobulin plus vaccine constitute the rabies postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) for individuals who have not previously received the vaccine.

**F - Rabies immunoglobulin** - Rabies immunoglobulin is part of rabies postexposure prophylaxis, but it is generally administered with the rabies vaccine. Immunoglobulin alone is not a sufficient prophylaxis.

**G - Tetanus booster** - A tetanus booster is only indicated as standalone postexposure prophylaxis in patients with a dirty and/or severe puncture wound if the last vaccination was ≥ 5 years ago, which does not apply here. In addition, this patient has not received vaccination against rabies and has been bitten by an animal that is a known wild reservoir for the virus.

