### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Conjunctival telangiectasias** - Conjunctival telangiectasias are a hallmark of the inherited syndrome ataxia telangiectasia (AT) and typically develop before the age of 5. Telangiectasias may also appear on other areas of exposed skin, particularly the face. The decreased serum levels of immunoglobulins predispose to infections, particularly of the respiratory tract. AT is due to an autosomal recessive mutation in the ATM gene, which assists in DNA break repair (nonhomologous end joining).

Image File: 1194-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_576ff6fb2d3a7.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Chronic eczema** - Chronic eczema is expected to develop in patients with Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS). While this condition could account for this patient's history of repeated infections, laboratory studies usually show increased (not decreased) IgA levels. Moreover, WAS does not cause neurological symptoms such as ataxia. Finally, because the condition is x-linked recessive, it would be very unlikely to affect a female patient.

**C - Pes cavus** - Pes cavus and other musculoskeletal abnormalities (e.g., kyphoscoliosis) are commonly observed early on in patients with Friedreich ataxia (FA). In contrast to the ataxia seen here, FA usually manifests as a staggering wide-based gait with onset in adolescence. Further symptoms include spastic paralysis and decreased vibration sensation, proprioception, and reflexes. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and diabetes are also strongly associated with FA, whereas immunodeficiency would not be expected.

**D - Cardiac rhabdomyoma** - Cardiac rhabdomyoma rarely develops sporadically but can be seen in patients with tuberous sclerosis (TS). While patients with TS may have an impaired gait as a result of central nervous system hamartomas, immunodeficiency (as evidenced by this patient's repeated infections and low immunoglobulins) would not be expected. Moreover, this patient's hyperpigmented skin patches are not consistent with the skin findings seen in TS (i.e., adenoma sebaceum, ash leaf spots, and Shagreen patches).

**E - Celiac disease** - Celiac disease is associated with selective IgA deficiency. As a result, affected patients may present with recurrent sinopulmonary infections in conjunction with or instead of the classic diarrhea and malabsorption. However, this patient has both IgA and IgG deficiency, which is not associated with celiac disease. This diagnosis also fails to explain the neurological symptoms and increased serum alpha-fetoprotein seen in this patient.

**F - Chronic lymphocytic leukemia** - Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is typically seen in older patients (usually > 60 years of age). Because many cases remain asymptomatic for a long period, it is often diagnosed late or incidentally. This patient has a hereditary condition that predisposes her to malignancies (especially acute leukemias and lymphomas), but that risk is not significantly increased in the next 5 years. Moreover, CLL is not one of the cancers typically associated with this patient's condition.

