### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Cauda equina syndrome** - The gradual development of asymmetric lower limb weakness, reduced reflexes in both the knees and ankles, saddle anesthesia, bladder dysfunction, decreased anal tone, and severe back pain with radiation to the lower limb is the classic clinical picture of cauda equina syndrome. Cauda equina syndrome is typically caused by traumatic injury, disc herniation, or a tumor below the level of the L2 vertebra. Given the history of breast cancer in this patient, spinal imaging is needed to rule out vertebral or epidural metastases.

Image File: 1195-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58eb5ba352beb.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Conus medullaris syndrome** - Conus medullaris syndrome may cause the similar symptoms as seen in this patient, although they usually occur symmetrically (!) with a sudden onset. This patient's symptoms developed over the course of 3 weeks and are asymmetric. Additionally, the knee-jerk reflexes are often spared and numbness is primarily limited to the perianal region, since conus medullaris syndrome typically involves sacral spinal cord segments, and not L3 and L4 (which control the knee-jerk reflex and innervate the saddle region beyond the perianal area). Radiating radicular pain also tends to be less severe in patients with conus medullaris syndrome.

**C - Central cord syndrome** - Central cord syndrome in the thoracic spinal cord segments would produce symmetrical (!) lower limb weakness, as well as loss of pain and temperature sensation, which is not reported in this patient. Sensation around the buttocks, inner thighs, and genitalia, as well as anal sphincter tone are classically spared in central cord syndrome.

**D - Brown-Sequard syndrome** - Brown-Sequard syndrome in the thoracic spinal cord segments would present with unilateral lower limb weakness, as seen here. However, the affected side would also present with loss of vibration and proprioception and the contralateral side would show loss of pain and temperature sensation, features which are absent in this patient.

**E - Anterior spinal cord syndrome** - Anterior spinal cord syndrome presents with symmetrical (!) lower limb weakness and loss of pain and temperature sensations in all areas below the level of the lesion, which is not reported in this patient.

