### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Craniopharyngioma** - Craniopharyngiomas are the most common cause of acquired hypopituitarism among children. This child presents with features of hypopituitarism such as growth hormone deficiency (as indicated by a low IGF-1 and short stature), diabetes insipidus (as indicated by polyuria and polydipsia), and secondary hypothyroidism (as indicated by hyporeflexia, low TSH, and low thyroxine levels). Headache is caused by compression of the adjacent brain parenchyma and/or stretching of the dura mater, while visual field defects are the result of compression of the optic chiasm.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Medication side effect** - Long-term corticosteroid therapy (e.g., for children with nephrotic syndrome) is known to cause short stature. However, children undergoing long-term steroid therapy would have a Cushingoid appearance characterized by obesity (unlike this child with a weight at the 5th percentile) and a moon-like facies. This child was only on a week-long course of corticosteroids, which would not result in a short stature.

**B - Rathke cleft cyst** - An expanding Rathke cleft cyst can cause headaches, visual field defects, and multiple hormone deficiencies due to hypopituitarism. However, symptoms usually occur between the ages of 30–50 years.

**C - Autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome** - Schmidt syndrome, the most common form of autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome, can manifest with decreased thyroxine levels (due to hypothyroidism) as well as polyuria and polydipsia (due to type 1 diabetes mellitus). However, Schmidt syndrome is more common among women between 20–60 years of age and is associated with elevated TSH levels (primary hypothyroidism). GH deficiency (suggested by decreased IGF-1 levels) and short stature would be unexpected. Moreover, normal serum glucose along with headache and visual field defects suggest that polyuria and polydipsia in this patient are caused by central diabetes insipidus rather than diabetes mellitus.

**D - Constitutional growth delay** - Constitutional growth delay is a diagnosis of exclusion that is made once other causes of short stature have been ruled out. A different cause for short stature is more likely on account of the presence of multiple hormone deficiencies, headache, and visual field defects.

**E - Familial short stature** - Although a low mid-parental height suggests a diagnosis of familial short stature, which is one of the most common causes of short stature, the presence of multiple hormone deficiencies, headache, and visual field defects indicates a different diagnosis.

**G - Multiple endocrine neoplasia** - Patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN 1) may develop pituitary adenomas, which can result in headache, visual field defects, and multiple hormone deficiencies (due to destruction of the normal pituitary gland). However, pituitary adenomas in patients with MEN 1 usually develop during adulthood, and, by the time pituitary adenomas become symptomatic, patients almost always have increased serum calcium levels due to primary hyperparathyroidism, which is usually the earliest endocrine manifestation of MEN 1.

**H - Pituitary adenoma** - A large, nonsecretory pituitary adenoma may result in headaches, visual field defects, and multiple hormone deficiencies due to hypopituitarism. However, symptoms usually occur between the ages of 30–60 years. A different diagnosis is more likely in this 8-year-old boy.

