### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Rupture of the middle meningeal artery** - Most cases of EDH are traumatic, resulting from a head injury that leads to rupture of the middle meningeal artery, which lies in close proximity to the skull and dura mater. Patients with EDH typically present with an initial loss of consciousness immediately after trauma, as seen in this patient. This might be followed by a lucid interval in which the patient regains consciousness before a rapid neurological decline and onset of symptoms caused by increased intracranial pressure due to hematoma expansion, including contralateral focal neurologic deficits (e.g., contralateral hemiparesis), pupillary abnormalities (e.g., anisocoria with ipsilateral mydriasis, fixed dilated pupils), and signs of increased intracranial pressure (e.g., altered mental status, vomiting).

Image File: 1199-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59f9d23d397ee.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Rupture of a saccular aneurysm** - Saccular aneurysm rupture leads to subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), which can manifest with altered mental status, vomiting, and focal neurologic deficits, all of which are seen here. Furthermore, this patient's hypertension puts him at increased risk of developing SAH. However, SAH usually occurs spontaneously, not following head trauma, and typically manifests with a sudden, severely painful (thunderclap) headache. Moreover, this patient's CT scan does not show blood in the subarachnoid space, as would be expected in SAH.

Image File: 1199-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fdb6002a7ea4.jpg

**B - Tearing of the bridging veins** - Tearing of the bridging veins that cross the subdural space leads to subdural hematoma (SDH). Acute SDH can manifest with altered mental status, focal neurological signs (e.g., contralateral hemiparesis), vomiting, and pupillary abnormalities (e.g., fixed dilated pupils) following head trauma, similar to what is seen here. However, in SDH, a crescent-shaped, concave hematoma that crosses suture lines would be seen on CT scan.

Image File: 1199-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d913c58ff.jpg

**C - Embolism in the middle cerebral artery** - An embolism in the middle cerebral artery (MCA) would cause an ischemic stroke, which can manifest with focal neurological deficits (e.g., hemiparesis), altered mental status, and vomiting, all of which are seen here. Furthermore, this patient's hypertension puts him at increased risk of developing this condition. However, a CT scan would most likely show a hyperdense occluded MCA (hyperdense MCA sign) and a hypodense parenchymal lesion. The CT scan could also show no abnormalities (e.g., if performed early after the onset of symptoms or in small strokes or brainstem strokes).

Image File: 1199-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9531ddb3.jpg

**E - Bleeding from an intraventricular arteriovenous malformation** - Although primary intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) is relatively rare (in contrast to secondary IVH resulting from ventricular extension of ICH or SAH), arteriovenous malformations are a common cause of this condition. Primary IVH can manifest with vomiting and altered mental status, both of which are seen here. However, patients with primary IVH typically present with an abrupt headache. Moreover, focal neurological deficits are rare and, when present, usually involve cranial nerves. Finally, CT scan would show blood within the ventricular system.

Image File: 1199-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6044d82d475f6.jpg

**F - Damage of the lenticulostriate arteries** - Damage to the lenticulostriate arteries causes intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) and is most often a consequence of hypertension. Patients with ICH can present with focal neurologic deficits, altered mental status, and vomiting, all of which are seen here. However, CT scan would show an intraparenchymal hyperdense lesion (most commonly in the area of the basal ganglia), surrounded by hypodense edema.

Image File: 1199-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58d012a6d3326.jpg

