### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Intermittent explosive disorder** - This patient most likely has intermittent explosive disorder, a condition characterized by recurrent impulsive outbursts of aggression that are disproportionate to stressors and are typically followed by feelings of remorse and/or embarrassment. To establish this diagnosis, the patient needs to be ≥ 6 years of age and the outbursts need to occur ≥ 2 times weekly for 3 months without injury to others or destruction of property, as seen in this patient. Diagnosis can also be established when outbursts occur ≥ 3 times yearly with injury to others or destruction of property. Peak age at onset is 14–17 years. Treatment includes cognitive-behavioral therapy and pharmacotherapy (e.g., SSRIs). Affected individuals are at increased risk for self-harm, and aggression may continue throughout the person's life.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Disruptive mood dysregulation disorder** - Disruptive mood dysregulation disorder (DMDD) is a pediatric condition characterized by recurrent outbursts of aggression that are inconsistent with developmental age and occur in various settings over a period ≥ 12 months. DMDD typically manifests before 10 years of age and outbursts usually occur ≥ 3 times weekly. Unlike this patient, individuals with DMDD typically remain persistently irritable between outbursts of aggression and do not usually express feelings of remorse or embarrassment after episodes.

**B - Conduct disorder** - Conduct disorder is characterized by a repetitive and persistent pattern of disruptive behavior that manifests during childhood or adolescence, as seen in this patient. However, this behavior typically includes aggression toward people and/or animals, destruction of property (e.g., arson), deceitfulness and/or theft, and serious rule violation (e.g., truancy, running away from home). Moreover, symptoms must persist for ≥ 12 months to make this diagnosis.

**C - Oppositional defiant disorder** - Oppositional defiant disorder (ODD) is characterized by frequent loss of temper, irritable mood, and defiant behavior towards authority figures, as seen in this patient. However, this patient lacks other typical manifestations of ODD, such as exhibition of deliberately annoying behavior and blaming others for one's own mistakes. Moreover, the onset of ODD symptoms typically occurs during late preschool or elementary school, and symptoms must be present for ≥ 6 months to make the diagnosis.

**E - Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder** - Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) can manifest during childhood or adolescence with impulsivity and inattention that impair functioning in ≥ 2 settings, (e.g., home and school). Although ADHD is associated with emotional dysregulation (e.g., outbursts of anger), affected individuals typically do not express remorse and embarrassment after these outbursts. Moreover, to make a diagnosis of ADHD, symptoms must be present before 12 years of age and include ≥ 5 features of hyperactivity (e.g., restlessness, excessive talking, answering questions prematurely, difficulty waiting, interrupting others) and/or ≥ 5 features of inattention (e.g., poor attention, disorganization, forgetfulness, distractibility, avoidance of tasks that require high mental effort).

**F - Antisocial personality disorder** - Antisocial personality disorder is characterized by a history of repeated aggression, impulsivity, and a reckless disregard for one's own safety and/or the safety of others, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, to make this diagnosis, the patient must be ≥ 18 years old and have a history of characteristic behavioral changes that began before 15 years of age. Moreover, affected individuals often engage in criminal activity and, unlike this patient, show emotional indifference and/or a lack of remorse regarding the consequences of their actions.

