### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Herpes simplex keratitis** - The dendritic corneal ulcer in this patient is a typical feature of herpes simplex keratitis (HSV keratitis). Additional clinical features include unilateral eye pain, watery discharge, and blurry vision. HSV is ubiquitous and primary ocular infection can follow inoculation by direct contact. However, most ocular infections are caused by viral reactivation and replication, which can occur in immunocompromised individuals, like this patient with AIDS.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Neurotrophic keratopathy** - Neurotrophic keratopathy (NK) is caused by nerve damage due to trauma, surgery, LASIK, or herpes infection. Given that this patient does have a herpes infection, she is at risk of developing NK. However, NK presents with decreased visual acuity, chronic dry eye, and the absence of eye pain. On slit lamp examination, spots on the corneal epithelium (early stage) or a circular/oval non-healing corneal ulcer (late stage) are visible. This patient presents with an acute 3-day history of eye pain, watery discharge, and a dendritic ulcer on examination, making NK an unlikely diagnosis.

**B - Pseudomonas keratitis** - Pseudomonas keratitis is more common in contact lens wearers and immunosuppressed patients and typically presents with ocular pain, photophobia, epiphora, and decreased visual acuity. Although this patient presents similarly, slit lamp examination would show a central, white corneal ulcer, often accompanied by a hypopyon, rather than a dendritic ulcer.

Image File: 1200-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55590ee182ad7.jpg

**C - Herpes zoster keratitis** - Herpes zoster keratitis can occur in immunocompromised individuals and presents with a dendritic ulcer on slit lamp examination, like in this patient. However, herpes zoster keratitis typically manifests with a prodrome (fever malaise) and vesicular eruptions on the ipsilateral forehead, eyelids, and nose. As this patient has no prodromal symptoms or skin findings, another diagnosis is more likely.

Image File: 1200-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_570f501964cf0.jpg

**D - Fusarium keratitis** - Fusarium keratitis is a type of fungal keratitis that is more common in contact lens users and in immunocompromised individuals. It can also present with ocular pain, photophobia, and decreased vision. However, on slit lamp examination, fungal keratitis typically presents as an ulcer with a filamentous edge and an accompanying hypopyon, neither of which is present in this patient.

**F - Acanthamoeba keratitis** - Although acanthamoeba keratitis is more common in contact lens users and would also present with ocular pain, photophobia, epiphora, and decreased visual acuity, slit lamp examination would show a ring-shaped corneal ulcer rather than a dendritic ulcer. In addition, acanthamoeba keratitis typically develops slowly over the course of weeks, despite antibiotic treatment, and the onset of symptoms is not as rapid as in this patient.

