### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Diffusion-weighted MRI of the brain** - Neuroimaging is indicated for all patients with suspected TIA within 24 hours of presentation to rule out stroke. Diffusion-weighted MRI is the preferred imaging modality because it shows even small ischemic changes within 30 minutes after onset (while a CT scan shows changes only after 6–24 hours) and can differentiate acute from chronic lesions. If MRI is not available, a CT scan of the head can be performed. Besides neuroimaging, antiplatelet therapy should be initiated urgently because TIA is associated with a high risk of subsequent stroke. If TIA is confirmed, further workup to identify the underlying etiology is indicated. This workup includes neurovascular imaging to assess arterial causes (e.g., carotid artery stenosis) and, in patients with suspected embolic source or unknown TIA etiology, cardiac evaluation (e.g., transthoracic ultrasonography). In addition, secondary prevention of TIA, including lifestyle modifications (e.g., smoking cessation) and management of chronic diseases (e.g., hypertension, diabetes mellitus), should be initiated.

In patients with persistent neurologic symptoms (i.e., patients with suspected stroke), the diagnostic workup for stroke should be initiated immediately. A noncontrast CT scan of the head is then indicated to rule out intracranial hemorrhage prior to further management (e.g., thrombolysis).

Image File: 1201-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_612e13abdfc85.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - Carotid duplex ultrasonography** - Carotid duplex ultrasonography can be used in the diagnostic workup of TIA to visualize arterial causes (e.g., carotid artery stenosis). This step may be indicated at a later point, but an important and urgent differential of TIA has not yet been excluded in this patient.

**C - Reassessment in 24 hours** - All patients with suspected TIA should receive certain testing to rule out differential diagnoses that require urgent management. This patient's pulse oximetry, serum blood glucose levels, and ECG are normal, but a stroke has not been excluded yet. After the exclusion of differentials, further management to determine the etiology of TIA is indicated. In addition, all patients with TIA should receive antiplatelet therapy at the time of the diagnosis. Reassessment in 24 hours is therefore not an appropriate management approach at this point.

**D - Transthoracic echocardiography** - Transthoracic echocardiography can be used in the diagnostic workup for TIA for cardiac evaluation in patients with suspected embolic source or unknown etiology. This step may be indicated at a later point, but an important and urgent differential of TIA has not yet been excluded in this patient.

**E - CT angiography of the neck** - CT angiography (CTA) of the neck can be used in the diagnostic workup of TIA to visualize arterial causes (e.g., carotid artery stenosis). This step may be indicated at a later point, but an important differential diagnosis of TIA has not yet been excluded in this patient.

