### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Collection of keratinizing squamous epithelium on the right** - This patient's progressive right-sided conductive hearing loss, painless otorrhea, and irregular mass on otoscopy suggest a cholesteatoma of the right ear. This condition is characterized by keratinizing squamous epithelium growing from the tympanic membrane or the auditory canal into the middle ear mucosa or the mastoid, causing chronic inflammation and erosion of the auditory ossicles. Cholesteatomas can be congenital or acquired. Acquired cholesteatomas can be classified as primary if caused by chronic negative middle ear pressure (due to eustachian tube dysfunction without middle ear infection) or secondary if caused by past injury to the tympanic membrane (typically due to chronic otitis media). The retraction pocket in the tympanic membrane and brown, irregular mass seen in this patient's otoscopy are characteristic of primary acquired cholesteatoma. Secondary acquired cholesteatomas, on the other hand, typically appear as a pearly white mass shining through the intact tympanic membrane.

Image File: 1206-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5da49688605f6.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Infection of the external ear canal on the right** - Infection of the external ear canal (otitis externa) on the right can lead to fluid leakage from the right ear and conductive hearing loss on the right, which are seen on this patient's audiogram. However, otitis externa is typically associated with severe ear pain. Otoscopy in this condition would show an erythematous and edematous external ear canal, and possibly granulation tissue at the transition between the cartilaginous and the osseous parts of the external auditory canal. Furthermore, otitis externa is an acute condition, whereas this patient's presentation indicates a more chronic process.

Image File: 1206-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_571893a052eea.jpg

**B - Accumulation of sebaceous gland secretions on the left** - Accumulation of cerumen, which is secreted by the sebaceous glands in the auditory canal, can cause cerumen impaction and lead to conductive hearing loss, which is seen here. However, cerumen impaction on the left would result in impaired air conduction of the left ear, whereas this patient's audiogram shows abnormal air conduction on the right side. Furthermore, otorrhea would not be expected, and otoscopy of a cerumen-impacted ear would show obstruction of the external auditory canal by a brownish-yellow, waxy plug; the tympanic membrane would most likely not be visible.

Image File: 1206-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57188ea00de1f.jpg

**C - Damage to the organ of Corti on the right** - Unilateral damage to the organ of Corti can occur, e.g., as a result of labyrinthitis. However, damage to the organ of Corti manifests with sensorineural hearing loss, which would show up on audiometry as an increase in the threshold for both air and bone conduction. Furthermore, patients with labyrinthitis also typically present acutely or subacutely, unlike this patient, who has had progressive hearing loss for the past year, and labyrinthitis is usually associated with tinnitus and/or vertigo.

Image File: 1206-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cc087806808a.jpg

**D - Malignant squamous cell neoplasia on the left** - Squamous cell carcinoma of the external auditory canal can manifest with otorrhea and conductive hearing loss, as well as otoscopic findings similar to those seen in this patient. However, patients would typically have severe ear pain, which is not seen here, and this patient's audiogram shows conductive hearing loss in the right, not the left ear.

**F - Tumor of the vestibular nerve on the left** - Tumors of the vestibulocochlear nerve such as acoustic neuromas can cause unilateral hearing loss, which is seen in this patient. However, a tumor on the left would be evident on an audiogram as sensorineural hearing loss on the left, characteristically showing increased auditory thresholds in both air and bone conduction. This patient's audiogram shows conductive hearing loss in the right ear. Moreover, a tumor of the vestibular nerve would likely cause further symptoms, such as vertigo and tinnitus, and would not explain this patient's otorrhea and otoscopic findings.

