### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Cardiovascular disease** - The extended use of combined antiretroviral therapy has resulted in a significant improvement in life expectancy and survival of individuals with HIV. As HIV‐related mortality decreases, patients start to experience age-related comorbid conditions more often, such as hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and/or accelerated atherosclerosis. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) in particular has emerged as an important cause of morbidity and mortality in individuals with HIV. Both HIV infection and smoking are independent risk factors for CVD. Considering that, in the United States, CVD is the leading cause of death in the age-pooled general population as well as among people over 65 years of age, this 67-year-old patient with a normal CD4+ count and no additional comorbid conditions is at greatest risk of dying from CVD as long as adherence to antiretroviral therapy is maintained.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Opportunistic infection** - Opportunistic infections are a leading cause of death in individuals with HIV and therapy nonadherence. The risk of opportunistic infections increases significantly when HIV leads to severe immunosuppression (i.e., CD4+ cell count of < 200 cells/μL). This patient is adherent to her treatment and has had a CD4+ T-lymphocyte count within the reference range for more than 10 years. Therefore, death due to an opportunistic infection is unlikely as long as adherence to antiretroviral therapy is maintained.

**C - Unintentional injury** - In the United States, life-threatening unintentional injury (UI) is the third leading cause of death in the age-pooled general population and the most common cause of death in people aged 1–44 years. While older age (> 65 years) is considered a risk factor for UIs, UI is not one of the top three most common causes of death in this age group. Given that the risk of UI is not affected by HIV and that this patient has no additional risk factors or comorbid conditions to facilitate an injury (e.g., delirium, gait disturbances), a different cause of death is more likely.

**D - Malignancy** - HIV infection and cigarette smoking, both of which are seen here, are risk factors for cancer (e.g., cervical cancer). However, cancer is only the second most common cause of death in the age-pooled female population as well as in women older than 65 years of age. This 67-year-old patient is much more likely to die from a different condition, for which both smoking and HIV are also risk factors.

**E - Chronic pulmonary disease** - This patient is at an increased risk of chronic pulmonary disease because she has been smoking regularly for the past 10 years. However, in the United States, chronic pulmonary disease is the fourth most common cause of death in the age-pooled general population and the third most common cause of death in people older than 65 years of age. This patient is more likely to die from another condition.

