### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Multiple system atrophy** - Multiple system atrophy is a neurodegenerative disease that belongs to the Parkinson-plus syndromes. It is characterized by motor abnormalities (tremor and rigidity), autonomic dysfunction (orthostatic hypotension and incontinence), and cerebellar symptoms (dysdiadochokinesia, gait disturbances, dysarthria). This patient meets all three criteria, making this the most likely diagnosis. Treatment is largely supportive because Parkinsonian drugs such as L-DOPA or dopamine agonists are ineffective. Poor response to levodopa is a finding that differentiates Parkinson-plus syndromes, such as multiple system atrophy, from classic Parkinson disease.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Parkinson disease** - Parkinson disease is a neurodegenerative disease that can lead to resting tremors, rigidity, and gait disturbances. Though this diagnosis cannot be entirely excluded, the presence of early autonomic dysfunction (urinary incontinence and orthostatic hypotension) and prominent cerebellar involvement (dysdiadochokinesia and dysarthria) makes another answer option more likely.

Image File: 1210-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d78ff4d8ae7a.jpg

**C - Friedreich ataxia** - Friedreich ataxia is a neurodegenerative disease that leads to progressive ataxia and dysarthria, both of which are seen in this patient. In some patients, it may also cause urinary incontinence. However, symptom onset is typically at a much younger age (usually < 25 years) and would be uncommon in a 54-year-old. Additionally, patients typically present with skeletal deformities (scoliosis, foot deformity) and signs of heart failure (palpitations, arrhythmias, dyspnea) secondary to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

**D - Corticobasal degeneration** - Corticobasal degeneration belongs to the Parkinson-plus syndromes and is a rare neurodegenerative disease that causes dementia, asymmetric motor abnormalities (initially affecting only one limb), and “alien limb phenomenon” (in which the patient perceives affected limbs as not belonging to him/her). Though this patient also has motor dysfunction, he does not have any other signs of corticobasal degeneration.

**E - Normal pressure hydrocephalus** - Normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) is a neurological disease that can cause the characteristic triad of urinary incontinence, dementia, and gait abnormalities. While this patient also presents with urinary incontinence, abnormal gait, and mild disorientation, he does not have clear signs of dementia. Furthermore, this diagnosis would not explain his cerebellar dysfunction (dysdiadochokinesia), tremor, or muscle rigidity.

**F - Progressive supranuclear palsy** - Progressive supranuclear palsy belongs to the Parkinson-plus syndromes and is a neurodegenerative disease that causes postural instability and dysarthria, which are both seen in this patient. However, the two most defining symptoms of PSP are frontal lobe dysfunction (causing e.g., disinhibition) and vertical gaze palsy, which are both absent in this patient.

