### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Echovirus** - Echovirus and other enteroviruses are typically responsible for summer outbreaks of aseptic meningitis, especially in children and teenagers. Enteroviruses are the most common cause of aseptic meningitis overall. Aseptic meningitis commonly manifests with a nonspecific rash, fever, headache, nuchal rigidity, and a positive Brudzinski sign.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Mumps virus** - The mumps virus may cause aseptic meningitis in rare cases, in which case patients present with fever, headache, photophobia, nuchal rigidity, and signs of meningeal irritation. However, other classic symptoms of mumps, e.g., inflammation of the salivary glands (particularly parotitis), would also be expected. Mumps is also unlikely in a patient who has received all age-appropriate vaccinations.

**C - Listeria monocytogenes** - Listeria monocytogenes is a common cause of bacterial meningitis, especially in immunocompromised patients, neonates, and the elderly. Patients present with fever, headache, nuchal rigidity, and signs of meningeal irritation. However, bacterial meningitis would manifest more acutely and with more severe features, e.g., altered mental status or seizures. Furthermore, CSF would have a cloudy appearance, elevated opening pressure, neutrophilic-predominant leukocytosis, elevated protein, low glucose, and elevated lactate.

**D - Herpes simplex virus** - Herpes simplex virus (HSV) is a common cause of encephalitis and meningitis in children and teenagers. HSV encephalitis is mainly caused by HSV-1, whereas HSV meningitis is typically caused by HSV-2. Either can manifest with fever, headache, photophobia, nuchal rigidity, and lymphocytic pleocytosis with slightly elevated proteins in CSF. However, another virus is statistically more common than HSV-2 as a cause of aseptic meningitis. Furthermore, since HSV-1 mainly affects the temporal lobe, focal neurological deficits such as altered sense of smell, aphasia, memory loss, or ataxia would be expected. Other typical symptoms include seizures, altered mental status, and behavioral changes.

**E - Streptococcus pneumoniae** - Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of bacterial meningitis in infants, adults, and the elderly. Patients present with fever, headache, nuchal rigidity, and signs of meningeal irritation. However, bacterial meningitis would manifest more acutely and with more severe features, e.g., altered mental status or seizures. Furthermore, CSF would have a cloudy appearance, elevated opening pressure, neutrophilic-predominant leukocytosis, elevated protein, low glucose, and elevated lactate.

**F - Neisseria meningitidis** - Neisseria meningitidis is the most common cause of meningitis in children and teenagers, as well as the main cause of meningitis on college campuses. It usually manifests with fever, headache, nuchal rigidity, and signs of meningeal irritation. A rash is present in some cases. However, bacterial meningitis would manifest more acutely and with more severe features, e.g., altered mental status or seizures. CSF would have a cloudy appearance, elevated opening pressure, neutrophilic pleocytosis, elevated protein, low glucose, and elevated lactate.

