### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Undercooked pork** - In the US, consumption of contaminated, undercooked meat is the most common cause of Toxoplasma gondii infection during pregnancy. While the likelihood of transplacental transmission is low in early pregnancy, the risk of symptomatic toxoplasmosis in the newborn is highest if infection occurs in the first trimester. Maternal toxoplasmosis is usually asymptomatic but may manifest with general symptoms, such as low-grade fever and cervical lymphadenopathy, both of which are reported here. Other sources of maternal infection include accidental ingestion of contaminated cat feces and drinking unpasteurized goat's milk.

Image File: 1213-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f22f3038f157.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Exposure to unvaccinated children** - Exposure of an unvaccinated pregnant woman to unvaccinated children is a risk factor for maternal infection with exanthematous diseases of childhood, such as rubella and varicella. Congenital rubella syndrome typically manifests with cardiac defects, cataracts, and cochlear defects (Gregg triad), none of which is seen here. Although chorioretinitis and ventriculomegaly can be seen in congenital varicella infection, further symptoms, such as hypertrophic scars and limb hypoplasia, would also be expected. Neither condition is associated with intracranial calcifications. Moreover, the mother has not reported a rash characteristic of either disease.

**C - Unprotected sexual intercourse** - Unprotected sexual intercourse during pregnancy is a risk factor for sexually transmitted diseases (e.g., HIV, CMV, HSV-2, syphilis), which may lead to congenital infections. This newborn presents with chorioretinitis, intracranial calcifications, and ventriculomegaly, all of which are consistent with congenital CMV infection. Moreover, the mother's symptoms during early pregnancy (low-grade fever, cervical lymphadenopathy) are a possible manifestation of CMV mononucleosis. However, intracranial calcifications are usually limited to the periventricular region in congenital CMV infection unlike the diffuse pattern seen here.

**D - Mosquito bites** - Infection with the Zika virus (e.g., through mosquito bites) during pregnancy can lead to congenital birth defects, such as ventriculomegaly and intracranial calcifications. However, congenital Zika infection is not associated with chorioretinitis. Moreover, the mother has not reported typical symptoms of Zika infection, such as a pruritic maculopapular rash or arthralgia, nor did she travel to an endemic region.

**E - Raw cow milk products** - Consumption of raw cow milk products during pregnancy is a risk factor for Listeria monocytogenes infection, which may lead to granulomatosis infantiseptica in newborns. This condition is characterized by respiratory distress and skin lesions, neither of which is seen here. Although the mother's nonspecific febrile illness in early pregnancy could have been a manifestation of listeriosis, her child's symptoms suggest congenital toxoplasmosis. Toxoplasma gondii infection has been associated with the ingestion of contaminated raw goat milk rather than cow milk products.

