### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - MRI of the brain** - Patients with NF1 are at increased risk of developing benign and malignant nervous system tumors, especially optic gliomas. Although optic gliomas are usually asymptomatic, patients may develop visual abnormalities, including proptosis, decreased color vision, and/or decreased visual acuity, as seen in this patient. All patients with NF1 and visual symptoms should undergo MRI with contrast for further evaluation.

Image File: 1214-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a48f78e8619c.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - CT scan of the brain** - CT scan is commonly used in the emergency setting to rapidly evaluate for trauma, space-occupying lesions, hydrocephalus, and intracranial bleeding. While patients with NF1 are at increased risk of developing CNS tumors, a CT scan is not the best study for evaluating his visual deficits.

**C - Electroencephalogram** - EEG records electrical activity in the brain and is used to diagnose or screen for seizure activity. While patients with NF1 are at increased risk of developing CNS tumors, which could cause seizure activity, this patient has no reported history of seizure and there is no indication to screen for seizures in NF1.

**D - B-scan ultrasound** - A B-scan ultrasound, also called a brightness scan, uses ultrasound waves to visualize ocular and orbital diseases. It is especially helpful in the detection of retinal hemangioblastomas, which are prevalent in von Hippel-Lindau disease, another neurocutaneous disorder. This patient has NF1 and should undergo a different diagnostic test to evaluate his visual disturbances.

**E - Gonioscopy** - Gonioscopy involves the placement of a lens (gonioscope) on the cornea to visualize the anterior chamber and chamber angle. It is considered the gold standard for diagnosis of glaucoma. Early glaucoma is common in patients with Sturge-Weber syndrome but is uncommon in patients with NF1.

