### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Oral gabapentin** - Gabapentin is one of the treatment options for neuropathic pain and thus for postherpetic neuralgia. While tricyclic antidepressants are generally considered a first-line treatment for postherpetic neuralgia, they should be given with caution in a patient with pre-existing heart disease (the patient has a history of a myocardial infarction), because they may prolong the QRS and/or QT interval, and thus may lead to arrhythmias. Therefore, an alternative like gabapentin (or pregabalin) is the appropriate medication in this particular patient.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Sublingual nitrates** - Sublingual nitrates may be used to treat patients with angina pectoris or hypertensive pulmonary edema. Although this patient has a history of ischemic heart disease and currently presents with burning pain on the right side of his chest, the pain seen in patients with angina pectoris is typically an acute retrosternal burning pain potentially radiating to the jaw and/or neck and left arm. Angina pectoris has no association with a skin rash.

**B - Oral tricyclic antidepressants** - Oral tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are the first-line medications for postherpetic neuralgia. However, they should not be administered in this patient because of his history of myocardial infarction, as they may prolong the QRS and/or QT interval, which may lead to arrhythmias.

**C - Topical capsaicin** - Topical capsaicin, the compound in chili peppers that makes them hot, may be administered in patients with postherpetic neuralgia. However, it is not the first-line treatment for this condition.

**D - Oral famciclovir** - Famciclovir may be used to treat herpes simplex and varicella zoster virus infections. It is typically administered within 72 hours of the onset of herpes zoster infection (shingles). It is not used for postherpetic neuralgia.

**E - Topical acyclovir** - Acyclovir may be used to treat herpes simplex and varicella zoster virus infections. It can be administered within 72 hours of the onset of herpes zoster infection (shingles). It is not used for postherpetic neuralgia.

**F - Intrathecal glucocorticoids** - Intrathecal glucocorticoids may be administered in patients with postherpetic neuralgia. However, they are not the first-line treatment for this condition.

