### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Oxygen therapy** - Administration of 100% oxygen is effective in terminating acute episodes of cluster headache in up to 80% of individuals. The exact mechanism is unknown, but it is thought to involve the vasoconstriction of cranial blood vessels in response to high oxygen concentration and hypocapnea.

Sumatriptan and ergotamine are also used to treat cluster headaches, but these drugs should be used with caution because they can cause vasoconstriction; most patients with cluster headaches (approx. 80%) are smokers and may therefore have other smoking-associated diseases, such as hypertension, peripheral artery disease, and/or coronary artery disease.

Image File: 1217-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d78a7054c922.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Indomethacin therapy** - Indomethacin is not effective in the treatment of cluster headaches. Instead, indomethacin is highly effective in preventing attacks of paroxysmal hemicrania, a rare form of trigeminal autonomic cephalalgia, although it is not very effective as an abortive therapy in acute cases. In fact, most treatment options for paroxysmal hemicrania have limited efficacy as abortive therapy. While paroxysmal hemicrania may present very similarly, the attacks are usually more frequent (≥ 5 per day) and often shorter.

**B - High-dose prednisone therapy** - High-dose steroid therapy is the treatment of choice for giant cell arteritis (GCA). Patients with GCA can present with severe unilateral headache, as seen in this patient. However, autonomic symptoms do not occur, and symptoms such as jaw claudication and scalp tenderness, which are not seen in this patient, are usually present. More importantly, GCA usually occurs in elderly individuals (peak incidence: 70–79 years) and is rare in patients younger than 50.

Image File: 1217-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ac2443a2dd1.jpg

**C - Amitriptyline therapy** - Amitriptyline is used to prevent chronic tension-type headaches and migraine attacks. Amitriptyline is not used, however, to acutely treat any type of headache.

**D - Carbamazepine therapy** - Carbamazepine is the drug of choice for the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia. While trigeminal neuralgia can present with unilateral facial pain that occurs in repetitive attacks, unlike in this patient, these attacks usually only last a few seconds and are characterized by shooting or stabbing pain (like an electric shock) from mouth to the angle of the jaw on the affected side. Frontal headache, conjunctival injection, and lacrimation are not features of trigeminal neuralgia.

Image File: 1217-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58a42b039229d.jpg

**E - Oxycodone therapy** - Oxycodone is an orally administered opiate analgesic that is used to treat chronic and/or severe pain that cannot be managed with NSAIDs. Opiate analgesics should not, however, be used in the management of primary headache disorders because of the risk of opiate dependence.

**F - Naproxen therapy** - Naproxen can be used for pain relief in, e.g., migraine and acute tension-type headaches (TTH). While TTH are the most common type of primary headache, the pain associated with TTH is usually holocephalic or bifrontal rather than unilateral. Cranial autonomic symptoms, as seen in this patient, do not occur. Migraine is another common type of primary headache disorder that is characterized by episodes of (typically unilateral) headache lasting 4–72 hours accompanied or preceded by nausea, vomiting, hyperacusis, photophobia, and/or aura, which are absent in this patient. Furthermore, while patients with migraine headache tend to rest motionlessly in a quiet, dark room, this patient prefers to pace around during the episodes of pain.

