### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Age-related macular degeneration** - The presence of soft drusen near the macula is associated with age-related macular degeneration (AMD). AMD is the most common cause of impaired vision in the elderly in developed countries. Cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension can increase the risk of AMD. Non-exudative AMD (also known as dry AMD) is the most common type of age-related macular degeneration. This condition causes a slowly progressive loss of vision. A less common form of AMD known as exudative AMD, (also known as wet AMD) makes up 10% of cases and is associated with retinal neovascularization, retinal hemorrhage, and/or loss of vision that progresses more rapidly.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Central serous retinopathy** - Hypertension is a risk factor for central serous retinopathy. Chronic central serous retinopathy would present with progressive blurring of vision and central metamorphopsia on Amsler grid testing. However, fundoscopy would show an elevation of the macula and a halo-like reflex around it; yellow/pale spots on the macula would not be expected. Furthermore, central serous retinopathy usually presents in males 20–45 years of age.

Image File: 1220-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ab04101c34f.jpg

**B - Hypertensive retinopathy** - Uncontrolled hypertension can result in hypertensive retinopathy, which can, in turn, cause progressive impairment of vision, as well as yellow/pale spots on the retina due to soft exudates or hard exudates. However, the spots in this patient are neither soft nor hard exudates. Moreover, in the case of hypertensive retinopathy, other features such as focal attenuation of the arterioles, arteriovenous nicking, and flame-shaped hemorrhage would also be present.

Image File: 1220-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91e8774b.jpg

**C - Diabetic retinopathy** - Patients with diabetes mellitus can develop diabetic maculopathy, a severe form of diabetic retinopathy that can cause progressive blurring of vision, central metamorphopsia on Amsler grid testing, and yellow/pale lesions (hard exudates) on fundoscopy. However, the region of retinal thickening at the macula (the dark red spot) would be larger than one disc diameter (due to macular edema). Also, other features suggestive of diabetic retinopathy, such as microaneurysms, dot and blot hemorrhages, and/or cotton wool spots, would usually be present in the remainder of the retina.

Image File: 1220-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_604252d9ed61e.jpg

**D - Cystoid macular edema** - Cystoid macular edema (CME) can present with progressive blurring of vision, central metamorphopsia on Amsler grid testing, and yellow/pale lesions on fundoscopy. However, these spots would be hard exudates, unlike the drusen seen here, and they would typically be arranged in a star-shaped configuration around the macula.

**E - Senile cataract** - A senile cataract is an important cause of impaired vision in the elderly. However, a cataract that is severe enough to impair vision would obscure the fundus on ophthalmoscopy and cause a scotoma instead of central metamorphopsia on Amsler grid testing.

**F - Presbyopia** - The incidence of presbyopia increases with age, and patients with presbyopia would have increased difficulty reading. However, the fundal changes seen in this patient are not caused by presbyopia. Amsler grid testing that is performed in a patient with presbyopia (without applying correction!) would result in blurring of all lines/spots instead of central metamorphopsia.

**G - Honeycomb macular dystrophy** - Doyne's honeycomb macular dystrophy can present with progressive blurring of vision, central metamorphopsia on Amsler grid testing, and drusen around the macula on fundoscopy. However, the onset of symptoms typically occurs in patients 20–40 years of age. Also, these drusen tend to be arranged radially, in contrast to the drusen in this patient, which are haphazardly arranged around the macula.

