### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Acyclovir** - Whenever a patient presents with symptoms suggestive of herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE), MRI of the brain and lumbar puncture should be performed, and empiric treatment with intravenous acyclovir should be initiated without delay because the neurological complications of the disease are devastating. HSE typically manifests with fever and headaches during a prodromal phase, followed by acute or subacute encephalopathy with symptoms of focal neurological deficits (e.g., paresis), seizures, altered mental status, and behavioral changes. The diagnosis is confirmed by detection (via PCR) of HSV DNA in the cerebrospinal fluid.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Recombinant tissue plasminogen activator** - Recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) may be administered in the case of an early ischemic stroke (within 3 hours of the start of symptoms). Although this patient presents with signs of cerebral ischemia, based on the time frame alone, rtPA would be contraindicated. Additionally, the prodromal phase and 5-day fever would not be associated with stroke. Lastly, the normal ECG makes ischemic stroke even less likely since the condition is sometimes caused by thromboembolism as a result of atrial fibrillation.

**C - Ceftriaxone, vancomycin, and ampicillin** - The combination of ceftriaxone, vancomycin, and ampicillin is administered as empirical therapy for suspected bacterial meningitis in groups of individuals more susceptible to Listeria monocytogenes, such as newborns, elderly, and immunocompromised individuals. Based on the patient's age, he is unlikely to have an infection with Listeria meningitis. Additionally, the MRI findings and focal neurological deficits are not typical for meningitis.

**D - Ceftriaxone and vancomycin** - The combination of ceftriaxone and vancomycin is administered empirically if bacterial meningitis is suspected. Although fever, nuchal rigidity, and altered mental status may be features of meningitis, the MRI findings and focal neurological deficits are not typical for meningitis.

**E - Amphotericin B** - Amphotericin B may be indicated in meningitis caused by the fungus Cryptococcus neoformans. Cryptococcal meningitis typically affects immunocompromised patients and is associated with subacute symptoms that develop over weeks. Although fever, nuchal rigidity, and altered mental status may be seen in meningitis, this patient's symptoms developed acutely and there are no signs or history of immunosuppression. Additionally, the MRI findings and focal neurological deficits are not typical for meningitis.

