### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Reduce caffeine intake** - Reduction of caffeine intake is part of the initial non-pharmacologic treatment of Meniere disease, an inner ear condition characterized by the triad of vertigo, tinnitus, and sensorineural hearing loss. Lifestyle adjustments include avoidance of dietary and environmental triggers (such as caffeine, alcohol, stress, and nicotine). Dietary modifications include low-sodium diet.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - Begin topiramate therapy** - Topiramate, an anticonvulsant, is used in the treatment of migraines. Vestibular migraines generally present with acute vertigo lasting anywhere from 5 minutes to 72 hours, and are associated with other symptoms of migraine (headache, visual disturbances, photophobia, nausea, vomiting). This patient does not have any reported history of migraine, nor does she have any other features consistent with migraine. Additionally, her tinnitus and unilateral hearing loss would not be explained by this diagnosis.

**C - Begin radiation therapy** - Radiation therapy is used in the treatment of vestibular schwannoma (acoustic neuroma). Presentation usually consists of chronic, progressive hearing loss, tinnitus, and imbalance. Although this patient has unilateral symptoms, the episodic and subacute nature make vestibular schwannoma unlikely.

**D - Perform Epley maneuver** - The Epley maneuver is used to treat benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), a condition in which dislodged otoliths enter the semicircular canals. BPPV is characterized by motion-triggered, brief episodes of vertigo. The tinnitus and sensorineural hearing loss in this patient suggest an alternate diagnosis.

**E - Discontinue erythromycin** - Erythromycin, a macrolide antibiotic, can cause ototoxicity which results in sensorineural hearing loss. However, the time course of her presentation and presence of tinnitus and vertigo are more suggestive of an alternate cause.

**F - Begin prednisone therapy** - Prednisone is used in the treatment of vestibular neuritis, a disease characterized by persistent vertigo, nausea, vomiting, and gait instability. It is thought to be viral in etiology and usually occurs following an upper respiratory tract infection (URI). Although this patient currently has a URI, the time course of her presentation is not consistent with this etiology and her sensorineural hearing loss and tinnitus suggest an alternate cause.

**G - Begin fluoxetine therapy** - Fluoxetine is used for patients with persistent-postural perceptual dizziness, a disease characterized by the sensation of dizziness and hypersensitivity to motion lasting > 3 months. It is usually associated with anxiety and/or depression, and true vertigo is not present. Cochlear symptoms such hearing loss and tinnitus, as seen in this patient, are usually not present.

