### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - 0.06** - The probability of having a myocardial infarction in participants with psoriasis over the 10-year time period is 0.06 or 6%. The absolute risk is equivalent to the incidence rate (the number of new cases per population at risk in a given time period). Here, there were 12 new cases of myocardial infarction in 200 participants with psoriasis (12/200 = 0.06) during the follow-up period of 10 years.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - 0.5** - 0.5 or 50% is the prevalence of exposure (here: psoriasis cases) in the entire cohort: 200/400 = 0.5.

**B - 0.75** - 0.75 or 75% is the prevalence of psoriasis in patients with myocardial infarction (MI), which is calculated as the total number of patients with myocardial infarction and psoriasis divided by the total number of patients with myocardial infarction: 12/16 = 0.75. In other words, 75% of patients with MI had psoriasis.

**D - 0.04** - 0.04 or 4% is the absolute risk of all patients (with and without psoriasis) developing myocardial infarction over the observation period of 10 years. Here, there were 16 new cases of myocardial infarction in the total population of 400 participants during the 10-year follow-up period: 16/400 = 0.04.

**E - 3.0** - 3.0 is the relative risk but not the absolute risk of myocardial infarction (MI) in participants with psoriasis. The relative risk is calculated as the probability of MI in the exposed group (with psoriasis) divided by the probability of MI in the control group (no psoriasis): (12/200)/(4/200) = 3.0. A relative risk > 1.0 indicates a positive association between psoriasis and myocardial infarction.

**F - 0.02** - 0.02 or 2% is the absolute risk of patients without psoriasis developing myocardial infarction (MI) over the observation time of 10 years. Here, there were 4 new cases of MI in the control group of 200 participants without psoriasis during the 10-year follow-up period: 4/200 = 0.02.

