### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Posterolateral thalamus** - A pure sensory stroke is caused by diminished perfusion of the ventral posterolateral and/or ventral posteromedial nucleus of the thalamus, which relays sensory information of proprioception, pain, pressure, and temperature to the primary somatosensory cortex. Affected individuals generally present with one-sided numbness of the face and body (contralateral to the affected side of the thalamus), as observed in this patient. Chronic hypertension and the resulting lipohyalinosis of small vessels are major risk factors for lacunar infarctions which include thalamic strokes.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Parietal lobe** - Diminished perfusion of the parietal lobe results from occlusion of one of its blood supplying vessels (predominantly the ACA, and MCA). Occlusion of the ACA or MCA may result in numbness, as seen in this patient. However, a stroke on the nondominant side would manifest with symptoms of contralateral neglect, while infarction of the dominant side would manifest with aphasia, finger agnosia, agraphia, or dyscalculia, none of which are present in this patient.

**B - Posterior limb of the internal capsule** - Infarction of the posterior limb of the internal capsule occurs due to hemorrhage or occlusion of the lenticulostriate arteries, which supply blood to the greater part of the internal capsule. As fibers of the corticospinal tract pass downward through the posterior limb of the internal capsule, infarction of the posterior limb usually leads to a pure motor stroke with hemiparesis of the leg, arm, and face contralateral to the site of the lesion. Rarely, ischemia of the posterior limb of the internal capsule manifests as isolated contralateral sensory loss, but this is not the most likely etiology of this patient's pure sensory stroke.

**C - Lateral medulla** - Diminished perfusion of the lateral medulla occurs due to occlusion of either the posterior inferior cerebellar artery or branches of the vertebral artery. Infarction of the lateral medulla causes Wallenberg syndrome, which manifests as numbness of the leg and arm contralateral to the lesion. However, affected individuals would also have vestibulocerebellar symptoms, bulbar muscle weakness, and facial paresthesias ipsilateral to the lesion.

**D - Basal pons** - Hypoperfusion of the basal pons results from occlusion of the penetrating arteries, eventually leading to the development of dysarthria-clumsy hand syndrome. Affected individuals present with facial weakness, dysphagia, dysarthria, and weakness of the hand ipsilateral to the site of the lesion; sensory deficits are absent.

**F - Subthalamic nucleus** - Hypoperfusion of the subthalamic nucleus leads to contralateral hemiballismus, not sensory deficits.

