### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Application of warm compresses** - A hordeolum is an acute purulent inflammation of the eyelid, most commonly due to Staphylococcus aureus, that occurs in two forms. This patient has an external hordeolum, which is more common and typically arises at the lid margin. Internal hordeolum typically arises at the palpebral conjunctiva. For both types of hordeolum, the first step in management is the application of warm compresses and gentle massage to promote drainage of the blocked gland. Additionally, eyelid margin hygiene (i.e., debris removal with a clean cotton swab) should be maintained. If the patient has severe symptoms or does not respond to conservative treatment after 1–2 weeks, an ophthalmologist should be consulted for incision and curettage and antibiotic treatment (e.g., topical gentamicin, systemic cephalexin).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Application of topical gentamicin** - Topical antibiotics, such as gentamicin, can be considered in patients with frequent hordeola or severe symptoms (e.g., concurrent blepharoconjunctivitis), neither of which are reported here. Therefore, a different, first-line treatment should be tried in this patient before considering topical antibiotics.

**C - Excisional biopsy** - Excisional biopsy is performed in cases of recurrent or persistent chalazion to rule out malignancy (e.g., sebaceous carcinoma). Although chalazia can resemble hordeola in appearance, they are slow-growing and not associated with signs of inflammation (e.g., erythema, pain). This patient's clinical presentation is diagnostic of a hordeolum; therefore, there is no indication for an excisional biopsy.

Image File: 1231-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6008482ec32bf.jpg

**D - Incision and drainage** - Incision and drainage can be used in the treatment of hordeolum manifesting with severe symptoms (e.g., large hordeolum) or not showing any response to medical management within 1–2 weeks of therapy. As this patient presents with mild symptoms for 1 day only, a different, first-line treatment should be tried before considering incision and drainage.

**E - Administration of intravenous ceftriaxone** - Intravenous ceftriaxone is used in the treatment of conjunctivitis caused by Neisseria gonorrhea. Although neisserial conjunctivitis is seen in young, sexually active adults, like this patient, the presentation is usually more severe with marked eyelid swelling, profuse purulent discharge, and hyperemic conjunctiva, none of which are seen here. Systemic antibiotic therapy (e.g., oral cephalexin) may be indicated in persistent or severe hordeolum associated with complications (e.g., preseptal cellulitis) if conservative measures have been exhausted.

