### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Huntington disease** - Huntington disease (HD) affects the indirect pathway of the striatum to the globus pallidus externus, which leads to excess cortical activity, manifesting with chorea and hyperkinetic movements (often mistaken for restlessness) classically beginning at about 40 years of age. As the disease progresses, cognitive and behavioral changes occur that manifest as dementia with primarily impaired executive functioning and depression with suicidal tendencies. As HD progresses, both direct and indirect pathways become affected. Movement dysfunction then transforms into a hypokinetic/akinetic movement disorder, including dystonia (e.g. delayed return to neutral with plantar reflex) and motor impersistence (e.g. inability to maintain tongue protrusion).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Wilson disease** - Patients with Wilson disease may present with mood changes, dysarthria, movement disorders, cognitive impairment, and depression. However, motor symptoms typically include asymmetrical tremor, parkinsonism, and/or dystonia; choreiform movements would be unlikely. In addition, the condition usually presents earlier in life (between 5 and 35 years) and is associated with characteristic physical exam findings of copper accumulation (e.g., Kayser-Fleischer rings, hepatomegaly, jaundice), which are not seen in this patient.

Image File: 1232-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57ac391801a6f.jpg

**B - Sydenham chorea** - Sydenham chorea is a movement disorder that is associated with rheumatic fever and manifests with speech disorders, neuropsychiatric symptoms (e.g., agitation, anxiety), and involuntary choreiform movements similar to those seen in this patient. However, rheumatic fever usually affects children between 5 and 15 years of age, not adults. Moreover, symptoms of Sydenham chorea typically occur within 6 months after an infection with S. pyogenes (most commonly pharyngitis), whereas this patient's symptoms have had a relatively slow progression (over two years). Also, dysphagia, depression, and/or cognitive impairment are not classically seen in Sydenham chorea.

**C - Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease** - Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a neurodegenerative disease that may also manifest with hallucinations, depression, involuntary movements, and mood changes. However, this disease usually progresses much faster than this patient's condition, with an average life expectancy of fewer than 12 months following symptom onset. While choreiform movements can occur in CJD, myoclonic movements are far more common. Furthermore, this patient does not present other clinical features of CJD, such as mutism, seizures, and gait disturbance.

**D - Parkinson disease** - Parkinson disease (PD) can also present with a slow progression of involuntary movements with lower limb rigidity, dysphagia, depression, cognitive impairment, dysarthria, and mood disorders. However, this patient is younger than most individuals at symptom onset of PD (age of onset ∼ 60 years) and her physical exam shows choreiform movements rather than the typical 4–6 Hz pill-rolling hand tremor and bradykinesia.

**E - Multiple sclerosis** - Multiple sclerosis (MS) also commonly occurs in women between 20–40 years of age and manifests with depression, dysphagia, cognitive impairment, hyperreflexia, and speech impairment. However, MS is usually characterized by episodes of demyelination symptoms (e.g., loss of proprioception or vibration, Lhermitte sign, upper motor neuron weakness), cranial nerve palsy, intention tremor, and/or ophthalmological symptoms (optic neuritis, internuclear ophthalmoplegia, nystagmus), not by choreiform movements. Symptomatic episodes of MS are classically separated by periods of remission; progressive symptoms, as seen in this patient, are less common.

**F - Drug-induced chorea** - Cocaine and other drug use (e.g., alcohol, heroin, or amphetamines) can trigger chorea and hallucinations, which are also seen here. However, it has been one year since the patient last used cocaine. Her symptoms should have improved or remained the same, but they would have not progressed further.

