### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis** - Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) typically manifests between 50–70 years of age with progressively worsening features of both upper motor neuron degeneration (hyperreflexia, increased muscle tone, Babinski sign) and lower motor neuron degeneration (hyporeflexia, decreased muscle tone, atrophy), as seen in this patient. While dysphagia from bulbar atrophy is present in approximately 20% of patients at disease onset, it is most often a late clinical feature and suggests a poor prognosis.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Myasthenia gravis** - Myasthenia gravis (MG) can present with generalized muscle weakness most commonly involving the extraocular or eyelid muscles that becomes worse with prolonged muscle activity. This patient's weakness is unrelated to activity and the presence of upper motor neuron signs and tongue atrophy are inconsistent with this diagnosis. Also, deep tendon reflexes are usually normal in patients with MG.

**B - Syringomyelia** - Syringomyelia can be caused by trauma such as this patient's motor vehicle collision, and it most commonly presents with loss of pain and temperature sensation and flaccid paralysis in a typical cape-like distribution involving the neck, shoulders, and arms. Although expansion of the syrinx can compromise the pyramidal tract and cause upper motor neuron signs in the lower extremities, this would not explain the asymmetry of upper and lower motor neuron signs seen in the lower extremities of this patient. The presence of bulbar symptoms (dysphagia) and tongue atrophy, as well as the lack of sensory symptoms, suggest another diagnosis.

**D - Inclusion-body myositis** - Inclusion-body myositis can present with slowly progressive weakness of both proximal and distal muscle groups. However, this patient also presents with signs of neurological involvement (increased muscle tone, changes in DTRs, and a positive plantar reflex) that are inconsistent with this diagnosis.

**E - Subacute combined degeneration of spinal cord** - Subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord can also present with muscle weakness, increased muscle tone, and a positive Babinski sign. However, this disease typically manifests symmetrically with decreased proprioception, vibratory sensation, and sensory ataxia from involvement of the dorsal columns. The presence of bulbar symptoms (dysphagia) and tongue atrophy, as well as the lack of sensory and proprioceptive findings, suggest another diagnosis.

**F - Multifocal motor neuropathy** - Multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) can present with lower motor neuron signs, such as flaccid paralysis and areflexia. However, the upper motor neuron is not affected in patients with MMN and, therefore, hyperreflexia, increased muscle tone, and Babinski sign would not be expected findings in this condition.

**G - Cervical spondylosis with myelopathy** - Cervical spondylosis with myelopathy can be elicited by trauma such as this patient's motor vehicle collision and can manifest with both upper and lower motor neuron signs. However, patients typically present with lower motor neuron signs (e.g., weakness, atrophy, and hyporeflexia) and sensory deficits at the level of the lesion, and can display signs of upper motor neuron degeneration (e.g., hyperreflexia, spasticity, and positive Babinski's sign) in the lower extremities, rather than the diffuse distribution seen in this patient. Additionally, dysphagia and tongue atrophy suggest cranial nerve involvement, which would be inconsistent with this diagnosis.

