### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Reduced amplitude on foot tapping** - Slowed and reduced amplitude on foot tapping (or other repetitive movements like opening and closing the hand or tapping thumb and index fingers) is a sign of bradykinesia, which is a hallmark feature of Parkinson disease (PD). In PD, degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra leads to a deficiency of dopamine in the striatum. Dopamine deficiency in the striatum causes decreased excitatory signaling to the motor cortex, which results in bradykinesia.

Image File: 1237-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d78ff4d8ae7a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Startle myoclonus** - Startle myoclonus is a classic sign of Creutzfeld-Jakob disease (CJD), a very rare disease that usually presents with myoclonus, neuropsychiatric changes, and akinetic mutism. While akinetic mutism could explain this patient's blank stare during the examination, CJD would be unlikely to cause this patient's other motor symptoms (i.e., asymmetrical resting tremor, stiffness). Additionally, CJD is lethal within ∼ 12 months of symptom onset, and some of this patient's symptoms have been present for 10 years.

**C - Impaired vertical eye movements** - Impaired vertical eye movement in a patient with parkinsonism is concerning for progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). While PSP may also cause frequent falls (due to postural instability) and sleep disturbances, it is not the most likely cause of this patient's parkinsonism. PSP often presents with a prolonged prodromal period characterized by headache, arthralgia, dizziness, depression, and fatigue, which are all absent in this patient. Also, PSP typically causes behavioral disturbances (e.g., apathy, disinhibition, or euphoria), as well as dysarthria and/or dysphagia.

**D - Horizontal gaze nystagmus** - Horizontal gaze nystagmus is a classic finding in Wernicke encephalopathy, which also causes ataxia and falls, particularly in alcoholic patients. This patient only has two drinks daily, and appears well nourished, so thiamine deficiency is unlikely. Additionally, this patient lacks symptoms of encephalopathy (e.g., disorientation, inattention).

**E - Extensor plantar response** - Extensor plantar response may occur in a number of neurologic diseases, but in this patient it would be most suggestive of multiple system atrophy (MSA). Patients with MSA typically present after the age of 50 with parkinsonism (especially rigidity/stiffness) causing falls, resting tremor, and REM sleep dysfunction (e.g., thrashing while asleep), all of which are present in this patient. However, the majority of patients also have early dysautonomia (especially urinary dysfunction and orthostasis), which is absent here. This patient's lack of dysautonomia and the prominent rest tremor make MSA a less likely (albeit still possible) diagnosis.

**F - Choreiform movements** - Choreiform movements in an adult would be concerning for Huntington disease (HD). HD typically begins earlier in adulthood (20s–40s), and presents with psychiatric changes and chorea rather than resting tremor, mask-like face, and rigidity.

**G - No abnormalities** - All of this patient's symptoms, in isolation, may represent normal findings. Two falls in a person > 65 may be attributed to tripping, a resting tremor may represent exaggerated physiologic tremor or essential tremor, and thrashing in sleep may be caused by isolated REM dysfunction. However, the combination of all of these symptoms in one patient is concerning for a particular underlying neurologic disease and requires workup. In addition, essential tremor usually worsens with intentional movements, unlike this patient's tremor that improves when he uses his hand to complete a task.

