### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Hawthorne effect** - The Hawthorne effect is the tendency of study subjects to modify their behavior when they are aware that they are being observed. It is commonly seen in behavioral studies. The unusually high disparity in colonoscopy screening rates observed in this case is unlikely to be solely attributable to the implementation of the free patient navigation program. Regular reminders that adherence to screening guidelines was being evaluated likely compelled participants to obtain colonoscopies at a higher rate than if they participated in the free patient navigation program without regular reminders of being evaluated.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Confirmation bias** - Confirmation bias is the tendency of researchers to preferentially include or exclude results that support a given hypothesis. In this case, colonoscopy screening rates were assessed via chart review, and there is no indication that the researchers preferentially included or excluded data. Confirmation bias would not account for the observed disparity in colonoscopy screening rates.

**B - Reporting bias** - Reporting bias refers to the selective disclosure or suppression of information by subjects (e.g., about past medical history, sex partners, drug use) that is sometimes related to stigma and prevailing social attitudes. In this case, colonoscopy screening rates were assessed via chart review. Reporting bias would not account for the observed disparity in colonoscopy screening rates.

**D - Berkson bias** - Berkson bias is a type of selection bias that occurs when study populations are drawn from the population of hospitalized patients, which typically has different exposures and health outcomes compared to the general population. The populations involved in this study were both recruited from community centers. Berkson bias would not account for the observed disparity in colonoscopy screening rates.

**E - Sampling bias** - Sampling bias occurs when a study evaluates a nonrandomized portion of the population that is not representative of the target population of interest. This produces false assumptions regarding exposures and outcomes. In this case, both participants and nonparticipants of the free patient navigation program were recruited from community centers. Sampling bias would not account for the observed disparity in colonoscopy screening rates.

**F - Recall bias** - Recall bias occurs when awareness of a condition by subjects changes their recall of related risk factors. It is common in retrospective studies. For example, a patient who has been diagnosed with cancer may have more complete recollection of possible exposures (e.g., missed preventive health screenings, occupational exposures) than a patient who has not been diagnosed with cancer. In this case, colonoscopy screening rates were assessed via chart review. Recall bias would not account for the observed disparity in colonoscopy screening rates.

