### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Modafinil** - In patients with narcolepsy who have persistent excessive daytime sleepiness despite lifestyle modifications (> 7.5 hours of sleep per night and scheduled daytime naps), modafinil is a recommended treatment option. Other CNS stimulants (e.g., methylphenidate, amphetamines) may be substituted or added. Although modafinil is often used as the drug of choice, there is no clear evidence that any of these stimulants is superior in treating EDS, so physician and patient preference largely dictates which pharmacotherapy will be trialed first.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Citalopram** - SSRIs (e.g., citalopram) are a first-line drug for REM-related symptoms of narcolepsy (cataplexy, sleep paralysis, and sleep hallucinations), if they are bothersome to the patient. Although this patient is experiencing cataplexy (one episode) and hypnagogic hallucinations, her daytime sleepiness is more concerning and requires treatment before citalopram should be started.

**C - Oral contraceptive pill** - Estrogen-containing oral contraceptives are indicated for menstrual recurrent hypersomnia, but the condition is very rare (< 20 documented cases). Moreover, this patient's symptoms are not temporally associated with menses, and cataplexy and hypnagogic hallucinations do not occur in menstrual recurrent hypersomnia.

**D - Clonidine** - α2 adrenergic agonists (e.g., clonidine) are treatment option for tics associated with Tourette syndrome. However, this patient's head tilting would have to occur multiple times daily to be considered a tic. Additionally, Tourette syndrome would not explain this patient's other symptoms.

**E - Risperidone** - Atypical antipsychotics (e.g., risperidone) are a first-line treatment for psychotic disorders, which cause hallucinations. However, this patient's hallucinations are associated with sleep (hypnagogic hallucinations), excessive daytime sleepiness, and cataplexy, which is not typical of psychotic disorders.

**F - Venlafaxine** - SNRIs (e.g., venlafaxine) are a first-line treatment for REM-related symptoms of narcolepsy (cataplexy, sleep paralysis, and sleep hallucinations), if they are bothersome to the patient. Although this patient is experiencing cataplexy (one episode) and hypnagogic hallucinations, her daytime sleepiness is more concerning and requires treatment before venlafaxine should be started.

