### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Surgical replacement of the lens** - Surgical replacement of the lens is the treatment of choice for patients with cataracts with significant cataract-related visual impairment, as seen in this patient. The standard surgical technique is extracapsular cataract extraction. There is no pharmacological therapy available except in galactosemia, in which the cataract is reversible when following a galactose-free diet. Untreated cataracts eventually lead to complete blindness.

Image File: 1244-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5bcd96d27c602.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravitreous injection of bevacizumab** - Intravitreous injection of bevacizumab is the first-line treatment for patients with exudative age-related macular degeneration (wet AMD), which can cause progressive and painless loss of vision. However, wet AMD affects one eye first rather than both eyes and progresses over weeks to months rather than years. Additionally, this condition does not cause a temporary improvement in near vision, darkening of the red reflex, and obscuration of the ocular fundus. Finally, the visual impairment is usually central or pericentral and patients generally present with metamorphopsia and scotomas, none of which are seen here.

**C - Laser photocoagulation of the retina** - Laser photocoagulation of the retina is used in the treatment of both proliferative (PDR) and nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR). Diabetic retinopathy is the most common cause of visual impairment in patients aged 25–74 years in the US and causes bilateral, progressive, painless vision loss, which is seen in this patient. However, diabetic retinopathy is not associated with the visualization of halos around lights, a temporary improvement in near vision, or the darkening of the red reflex. Characteristic fundoscopic findings of PDR include preretinal neovascularization, vitreous hemorrhage, retinal detachment, and fibrovascular proliferation, while characteristic fundoscopic findings of NPDR include hard exudates and macular ischemia; none of these findings are seen here.

**D - Administration of topical latanoprost** - Topical latanoprost is the preferred first-line treatment for patients with open-angle glaucoma, which also causes bilateral, progressive vision loss that can be associated with halos around lights. Advanced age, diabetes mellitus, and steroid use, all of which are seen in this patient, are known risk factors for open-angle glaucoma; however, a temporary improvement in near vision and a fundoscopy showing darkening of the red reflex and obscuration of ocular fundus are not expected. Additionally, in patients with open-angle glaucoma, the visual field loss progresses from peripheral to central over time, which is not seen here.

**E - Administration of topical pilocarpine and timolol** - Topical pilocarpine and timolol are the first-line treatment for acute angle-closure glaucoma. This condition causes blurred vision associated with halos around lights and a hard to visualize retina (due to corneal opacification), which are seen in this patient. However, acute angle-closure glaucoma is usually unilateral rather than bilateral and patients present with a red, painful eye with a fixed pupil, which is not seen here. Additionally, the visual impairment has a sudden onset rather than a progressive course. Furthermore, beta blockers should be avoided in this patient with asthma because of the risk of bronchoconstriction.

**F - Discontinuation of digoxin therapy** - Blurred vision is a common side effect of digoxin therapy, affecting 1–10% of patients taking this cardiac glycoside. However, digoxin therapy is not associated with halos around lights, temporary improvement in near vision, darkening of the red reflex, or obscuration of the ocular fundus. Other visual side effects of digoxin therapy include central scotomas, photopsia, diplopia, and dyschromatopsia. Finally, further side effects (gastrointestinal, neurological) would be expected in the case of digoxin toxicity.

