### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Removal of tripping hazards from the patient's home** - The removal of tripping hazards from this patient's home is most likely to have prevented his acute SDH by reducing his fall risk. Blunt head trauma due to a fall can cause shearing of the bridging veins, leading to an SDH. This patient's alcohol consumption and advanced age increase his risk of fall-related injury. Antithrombotic therapy, hypertension, arteriosclerosis, and cerebral atrophy (due to advanced age) are additional factors that make him particularly susceptible to SDH. Symptoms of acute SDH typically develop within 3 days after the inciting event and include altered mental status (e.g., confusion), headache, and focal neurological signs (e.g., contralateral hemiparesis), as seen here.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Strict adherence to lisinopril therapy** - Adherence to lisinopril therapy decreases the risk of an intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Arterial hypertension is the single most important predisposing factor for ICH. ICH typically manifests with headache, confusion, and focal neurological deficits, all of which are seen here. However, a noncontrast CT scan of the head would show a solitary hyperdense lesion surrounded by hypodense edema. Moreover, symptoms typically progress over minutes to hours rather than days. Another measure would more likely have prevented this patient's acute SDH.

Image File: 1247-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58d012a6d3326.jpg

**C - Smoking cessation** - Smoking is a risk factor for ischemic stroke and nontraumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage, but it is not an independent risk factor for SDH. Another measure would more likely have prevented this patient's acute SDH.

**D - Carotid endarterectomy** - Carotid endarterectomy can be performed to prevent ischemic stroke in patients with carotid artery stenosis (CAS). Although ischemic stroke can also manifest with focal neurological signs (e.g., contralateral hemiparesis) and headache, symptoms develop more acutely than those seen here. A noncontrast CT scan in ischemic stroke typically shows hyperdense occluded vessels (e.g., middle cerebral artery) and/or hypodense parenchyma in the first 24 hours; or a hyperdense parenchymal lesion after 24 hours of symptom onset. An extraparenchymal, crescent-shaped hyperdense lesion that crosses cranial sutures would not be expected. Carotid endarterectomy would not have prevented this patient's acute SDH.

Image File: 1247-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_61322a2ae9fad.jpg

**E - Endovascular coiling of an intracranial aneurysm** - Endovascular coiling of an intracranial aneurysm can prevent an aneurysm rupture and subsequent subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Patients with SAH may present with headache, confusion, and focal neurologic deficits, all of which are seen here. However, a CT scan of the head in SAH characteristically shows blood in the subarachnoid space, not a crescent-shaped lesion that crosses cranial sutures. Also, headache associated with SAH is typically rapid in onset (thunderclap headache) and accompanied by meningism. Another measure would more likely have prevented this patient's acute SDH.

Image File: 1247-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fdb6002a7ea4.jpg

