### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Destruction of upper and lower motor neurons** - Destruction of upper (UMN) and lower motor neurons (LMN) in multiple body segments (cranial, cervical, thoracic, and lumbosacral) is characteristic of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. UMN destruction results in increased muscle tone and spasticity, whereas LMN damage causes early atrophy. This patient initially had neurological deficits in his cranial nerves (hoarseness, choking on secretions, dysphagia), which have recently progressed to other body segments (weakness, fasciculations, hyperreflexia). This progression from one to multiple affected segments is the typical disease course for ALS. Lab values in patients with ALS may show an elevation in creatine kinase but are otherwise normal.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Dilation of the central spinal canal** - Dilation of the central spinal canal (known as syringomyelia) is a slowly progressive process that usually causes abnormal functioning of the spinothalamic fibers, leading to loss of pain and temperature sensation in a dermatomal distribution (dissociated sensory loss). The fluid-filled cystic structure can eventually grow to involve the corticospinal tracts and anterior horn cells, which leads to weakness in the affected myotome. Syringomyelia does not explain this patient's hyperreflexia, which is a sign of upper motor neuron involvement. Also, he lacks the characteristic sensory loss of hydromyelia.

Image File: 1248-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59c28529d0700.jpg

**C - Demyelination of peripheral nerves** - Demyelination of peripheral nerves can be caused by Guillain-Barré syndrome, which begins as muscle weakness in the lower extremities and rapidly progresses to involve the upper extremities and, in more severe cases, bulbar/facial muscles. Typically, these symptoms progress over the course of a few days, not months, as seen in this patient. GBS also causes hyporeflexia due to lower motor neuron (peripheral nerve) demyelination, not hyperreflexia. In addition, about two-thirds of patients with GBS report a preceding upper respiratory or gastrointestinal infection.

**D - Autoimmune destruction of acetylcholine receptors** - Autoimmune destruction of acetylcholine receptors is seen in myasthenia gravis. Individuals with MG usually have muscle weakness that is worse at the end of the day or during periods of activity. Though this patient also has muscle weakness, he has concurrent UMN signs (hyperreflexia), which are not seen in MG. In addition, more than 50% of patients with MG have ocular symptoms (ptosis and diplopia).

**E - Multiple cerebral infarctions** - Multiple cerebral infarctions can be caused by embolic strokes, possibly leading to upper motor neuron symptoms that involve the facial, upper and lower extremity muscles. This patient has UMN signs (hyperreflexia) in addition to muscle weakness, which can both occur following cerebral infarctions. However, he also has LMN signs (muscle atrophy and muscle twitching, i.e., fasciculations), which are not caused by strokes. Also, strokes typically result in asymmetric, instead of bilateral muscle weakness.

