### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Intravenous clindamycin and gentamicin followed by suction and curettage** - This patient requires broad-spectrum IV antibiotics, e.g., clindamycin and gentamicin, which provide coverage against common vaginal pathogens that seed the retained products of conception (e.g., streptococci, gram-negative enteric bacilli, and anaerobic microbes). After antibiotic initiation, she will require surgical evacuation of the uterine contents to remove the source of the infection. IV antibiotics should be continued until the patient has been afebrile for 48 hours.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous clindamycin and gentamicin followed by oral misoprostol** - Oral misoprostol can be used to treat an incomplete abortion to allow for expulsion of the remaining products of conception. However, this patient has a septic abortion with hemodynamic instability, which requires more immediate treatment to removed the source of infection.

**B - Oral clindamycin followed by outpatient follow-up in 2 weeks** - This patient has become septic and requires inpatient care. Oral clindamycin with outpatient follow-up would be inappropriate at this time.

**D - Intravenous clindamycin and gentamicin followed by close observation** - This patient requires broad-spectrum IV antibiotics, such as clindamycin and gentamicin, to help control infection against common vaginal pathogens that have likely seeded the retained products of conceptions. Although close observation is one possible option for an incomplete abortion, as the remaining products of conception may expel without treatment, this patient's septic abortion requires additional therapy to help with control of the infection.

**E - Oral clindamycin followed by suction curettage** - This patient requires uterine evacuation with suction and curettage to remove the retained products of conception that have become infected. Although this patient will need additional treatment beyond suction and curettage to control her infection, oral clindamycin alone would not suffice.

