### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - F** - Placenta accreta occurs when the placenta is directly adherent to the myometrium instead of the decidua basalis but does not invade or penetrate the myometrium (i.e., placenta increta). Although the exact etiology is unknown, previous C-sections and placenta previa are the most important risk factors. Clinically, patients present with delayed placental detachment and massive, life-threatening postpartum hemorrhage at the time of attempted manual separation of the placenta, as seen in this patient. During the prenatal period, patients are often asymptomatic and diagnosis is generally made via routine prenatal ultrasound. In the rare event that a placenta accreta is first diagnosed after vaginal delivery, as in this patient, emergent laparotomy is indicated to control the bleeding. If diagnosed in advance, management involves planned surgical delivery with possible hysterectomy to minimize postpartum hemorrhage.

Image File: 1252-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58e78232eae43.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - Uterine atony is the most common cause of postpartum hemorrhage and occurs when the uterus fails to fully contract and compress the uteroplacental vasculature after placental delivery. Patients with a history of multiple pregnancies are at increased risk. However, patients would present with a soft, enlarged and ascending uterus. This patient has a firm uterus and developed bleeding following attempted manual separation of the placenta.

**B - B** - Vasa previa causes antepartum, not postpartum hemorrhage.

**C - C** - Patients with a history of previous C-sections are particularly prone to uterine rupture due to scarring. Uterine rupture is characterized by sudden onset vaginal bleeding during labor, associated with severe abdominal pain, uterine tenderness, maternal hemodynamic instability, and fetal distress, none of which are present here. This patient developed bleeding one hour after vaginal delivery following attempted manual separation of the placenta.

**D - D** - This patient has already delivered the fetus and is no longer in labor.

**E - E** - Placenta previa causes antepartum, not postpartum hemorrhage.

Image File: 1252-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5c17dc5135f48.jpg

**G - G** - Placental abruption causes antepartum, not postpartum hemorrhage.

