### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - E** - Placenta previa typically affects women > 35 years old with a history of curettage or, as in this case, cesarean delivery. Like many of the most important differential diagnoses of antepartum hemorrhage, it is characterized by the sudden onset of vaginal bleeding. But contrary to other causes of antepartum bleeding (e.g., placental abruption or uterine rupture), bleeding is painless and often stops after 1 or 2 hours. Other differentiating factors are a nontender uterus and the lack of fetal distress in placenta previa.

Image File: 1253-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5c17dc5135f48.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - Uterine atony causes postpartum, not antepartum hemorrhage!

**B - B** - Ruptured vasa previa also presents with a sudden onset of painless bleeding in the third trimester, as in this patient. However, rupture of the vasa previa occurs after rupture of membranes (as the vasa previa are located in the membranes!). Since rupture of membranes was not yet observed in this patient, ruptured vasa previa can be ruled out.

**C - C** - Uterine rupture also presents with a sudden onset of bleeding in the third trimester, but the condition is characterized by severe abdominal pain and uterine tenderness, maternal hemodynamic instability, and fetal distress.

**D - D** - A small amount of vaginal bleeding can occur in early labor and is named bloody show. However, the latent phase of labor would be notable for mild contractions. The intensity of the patient's bleeding in this case also indicates another diagnosis.

**F - F** - Placenta accreta causes postpartum, not antepartum hemorrhage!

Image File: 1253-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58e78232eae43.jpg

**G - G** - Abruptio placentae also presents with a sudden onset of bleeding in the third trimester, but the condition is characterized by mild to moderate abdominal pain, uterine tenderness, and continuous, dark, vaginal bleeding.

