### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Intrauterine growth restriction** - Intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) is a potential complication of severe HG (i.e., nausea and vomiting leading to symptomatic dehydration and loss of > 5% of body weight), particularly when severe symptoms occur early in pregnancy. Other fetal complications of HG include low birth weight and preterm birth. Adequate supportive care (e.g., antinausea medication, supplemental nutrition, and rehydration) that maintains the pregnant patient's body weight significantly reduces the risk of IUGR. Orthostatic hypotension and metabolic alkalosis, which this patient has, are usually indications for hospitalization.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Neural tube defects** - Risk factors for congenital neural tube defects include material folate deficiency, pregestational diabetes, and obesity, as well as a family history of neural tube defects. However, neural tube defects are not a sequela of HG. Folate supplementation and adequate glucose control are recommended to decrease the risk of neural tube defects.

**C - Postterm delivery** - Maternal dehydration and malnutrition due to HG are associated with preterm birth (< 37 weeks), not postterm birth (> 41 weeks).

**D - Congenital heart disease** - While maternal diabetes and folic acid deficiency are risk factors for congenital heart disease, HG is not a risk factor.

**E - Neonatal hyperthyroidism** - Neonatal hyperthyroidism, a complication of maternal Graves disease, is caused by the passage of thyroid-stimulating antibodies through the placenta. While women with HG may develop transient hyperthyroidism early in pregnancy, HG is not a risk factor for neonatal hyperthyroidism.

