### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Acetaminophen** - Acetaminophen is the first-line treatment for the acute management of severe migraine in pregnant patients, as it is both effective and safe to use during pregnancy compared to other migraine-specific drugs (e.g., ergot derivatives, triptans). Other agents (e.g., codeine, caffeine) may be combined with acetaminophen if monotherapy does not result in a sufficient improvement. Associated nausea and vomiting can be treated with antiemetics such as meclizine, diphenhydramine, promethazine, metoclopramide, or ondansetron.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Sumatriptan** - Triptans, such as sumatriptan, are first-line agents for the acute management of severe migraines in nonpregnant patients. However, they are contraindicated during pregnancy because of their potential vasoconstrictive effect on uteroplacental vessels and increased uterotonic activity, both of which can contribute to fetal growth retardation and intrauterine fetal demise.

**C - Ibuprofen** - Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen, are a second-line option for the acute management of migraines before 20 weeks' gestation. However, NSAIDs should be avoided after 20 weeks' gestation because of their vasoconstrictive properties, which could lead to premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus, fetal kidney dysfunction (and consequent oligohydramnios), persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn, necrotizing enterocolitis, or intracranial hemorrhage.

**D - Ergotamine** - Ergot derivatives, such as ergotamine, are first-line agents for the acute management of severe migraines in nonpregnant patients. However, they are contraindicated during pregnancy because of vasoconstrictive effects on uteroplacental vessels and increased uterotonic activity, both of which can contribute to fetal growth retardation and intrauterine fetal demise.

**E - Oxycodone** - Opioids, such as oxycodone, can be used as an alternative for the acute management of migraines in pregnant women who do not respond to first- and second-line therapy. Nonetheless, the use of opioids during pregnancy is limited because of their high potential for maternal addiction and neonatal withdrawal. In addition, opioids should be avoided in this patient with nausea because they are emetogenic.

