### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Magnesium sulfate and labetalol therapy** - Management of preeclampsia with severe features is determined by the gestational age, hemodynamic stability of the mother and/or fetus, and complications in the pulmonary, hepatic, or renal functions of the mother (e.g., pulmonary edema, oligohydramnios). If the gestational age is < 34 weeks and both the mother and fetus are stable, as seen here, expectant management with conservative treatment is appropriate. Moreover, an attempt to delay the delivery until ≥ 34 weeks' gestation will increase the viability of the fetus and is therefore appropriate for this patient. Conservative treatment includes magnesium sulfate for prophylaxis of eclampsia, as well as antihypertensives (e.g., labetalol). Dexamethasone should also be administered in order to induce fetal lung maturity, which will reduce the risk of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome, intraventricular hemorrhage, and neonatal death. Additionally, the patient should be closely monitored in a facility with both an adult and neonatal ICU. In patients with preeclampsia with severe features at ≥ 34 weeks' gestation, immediate delivery after initial stabilization is indicated.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Platelet transfusion** - Platelet transfusion is indicated for patients with preeclampsia if the platelet count is < 10,000–20,000/mm3 in a nonbleeding patient or < 50,000/mm3 in a patient with active bleeding that is difficult to control.

**C - Induction of labor** - Induction of labor is advisable in patients at < 34 weeks' gestation with preeclampsia with severe features if there is maternal or fetal instability and any of the following: eclampsia, pulmonary edema, disseminated intravascular coagulation, abruptio placentae, intrauterine fetal demise, or severe hypertension refractory to medications. Induction of labor would not be appropriate in this case since both the patient and fetus are stable.

**D - Lisinopril therapy** - Lisinopril and other ACE inhibitors are contraindicated during pregnancy. In the second and third trimester, they increase the risk of fetal complications (e.g., renal impairment, renal malformations, oligohydramnios, placental insufficiency).

**E - ICU admission** - Admission of the patient to the intensive care unit (ICU) may be necessary for preeclampsia with severe features if the mother develops severe complications such as eclampsia, uncontrolled hypertension, disseminated intravascular coagulation, pulmonary edema, or uncontrollable severe hypertension. While ICU admission is not currently indicated for this patient, she should be closely monitored at a tertiary care center where an obstetric and neonatal ICU is available in the event of severe complications.

**F - Cesarean delivery** - Preeclampsia with severe features is not generally a sole indication for cesarean delivery. Vaginal delivery is preferable if gestational age, cervical status, and maternal/fetal condition have sufficiently progressed, given that it is associated with lower risks for the mother and fetus. Furthermore, delivery should not be induced before the gestational age of > 34 weeks (as the fetus is considered viable at that age), except in the case of eclampsia, pulmonary edema, DIC, abruptio placentae, intrauterine fetal demise, or uncontrollable severe hypertension.

