### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Stop magnesium sulfate and give calcium gluconate** - IV infusion of magnesium sulfate is administered in preeclampsia with severe features to prevent progression to eclampsia. Any patient receiving magnesium sulfate should be closely monitored, as magnesium sulfate can have severe side effects. One of the first signs of magnesium sulfate toxicity is depressed or absent deep tendon reflexes, as in this patient. If left untreated, the toxicity can progress to respiratory depression and even cardiac arrest. The first step in managing magnesium sulfate toxicity would be decreasing the dose of the infusion. However, the absence of deep tendon reflexes indicates a more severe toxicity that requires stopping the infusion and administering calcium gluconate.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Stop labetalol** - Labetalol lowers heart rate and blood pressure but does not affect the deep tendon reflexes. Stopping labetalol would therefore worsen her preeclampsia, without addressing her current complaints (depressed deep tendon reflexes), which most likely arise from magnesium sulfate toxicity.

**C - Stop magnesium sulfate and give lorazepam** - Absent or depressed deep tendon reflexes, as seen in this patient, are a sign of magnesium sulfate toxicity. If left untreated, the toxicity can progress to respiratory depression and even cardiac arrest. Lorazepam, like all benzodiazepines, causes muscle relaxation and would, therefore, further depress not only the deep tendon reflexes, but also respiration. It is therefore absolutely contraindicated in this patient!

**D - Perform nerve conduction studies** - Absent or depressed deep tendon reflexes, as seen in this patient, are a sign of magnesium sulfate toxicity. Magnesium sulfate causes general muscle relaxation through different mechanisms, one of which reduces central and peripheral nerve conduction. Nerve conduction studies would therefore show a reduction in conduction speed and/or amplitude. However, the outcome of this diagnostic procedure would in no way affect management nor would it help confirm the diagnosis of magnesium sulfate toxicity.

**E - Perform emergency cesarean section** - This patient's absent deep tendon reflexes are a sign of magnesium sulfate toxicity, which would not be treated by delivery. Delivery is the only curative option in preeclampsia. However, emergency delivery is only indicated for stable patients with severe sequelae of preeclampsia, including eclampsia, pulmonary edema, DIC, abruptio placentae, intrauterine fetal demise, or uncontrollable severe hypertension. This patient does not exhibit any of these conditions. Instead of delivery, the goal in the management of preeclampsia in this patient at 32 weeks' gestation is to stabilize the mother and fetus until at least 34 weeks' gestation and to then deliver the child. In some cases, complications may arise in which delivery is indicated before 34 weeks' gestation, but only after corticosteroid therapy for 48 hours (to promote neonatal maturation). In such cases, if feasible, vaginal delivery would be preferred over C-section.

**F - Increase magnesium sulfate dose** - Absent or depressed deep tendon reflexes, as seen in this patient, are a sign of magnesium sulfate toxicity. Further increasing the dose could result in respiratory and cardiac arrest and is, therefore, absolutely contraindicated!

