### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - No further action is indicated at this time** - True labor contractions are regular uterine contractions that increase in intensity, duration, and frequency and cause cervical changes (e.g., effacement, dilation) as well as descent of the fetal presenting part. True labor with an onset before 37 weeks of gestation (preterm labor) requires further management. This woman, however, presents with short (< 1 minute) contractions that have remained constant in intensity, frequency, and duration. In addition, her cervix is undilated and the fetal station is -3 (i.e., undescended). These findings remain unchanged after 2 hours of monitoring. This patient most likely has physiologic uterine contractions (i.e., false labor), which tone the uterus in preparation for true labor and help with fetal positioning. These contractions resolve spontaneously and do not require any treatment.

In patients with true preterm labor at < 34 weeks' gestation, tocolysis is indicated for up to 48 hours to enable the administration and efficacy of antenatal corticosteroids (which induce fetal lung maturity). In patients at > 34 weeks' gestation, the risks of delay outweigh the risks of preterm birth, and admission for monitoring and delivery is indicated.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer intravenous magnesium sulfate** - Magnesium sulfate is indicated for fetal neuroprotection in patients with preterm labor before 32 weeks' gestation. This woman is at > 32 weeks' gestation and does not meet the criteria for true labor.

**B - Admit for continuous monitoring** - Admission for monitoring and delivery would be indicated in patients with preterm labor at > 34 weeks' gestation. This patient, however, is at 33 weeks' gestation and additionally does not meet the criteria for true labor.

**D - Administer intramuscular betamethasone** - Betamethasone is used to induce fetal lung maturity prior to delivery and is indicated in patients at < 34 weeks' who are in preterm labor. Although this woman is at 33 weeks' gestation, she does not meet the criteria for true labor.

**E - Administer oral nifedipine** - Nifedipine is the first-line tocolytic agent in patients with preterm labor between 32 and 34 weeks of gestational age. This woman is at 33 weeks' gestation, but she does not meet the criteria for true labor.

**F - Administer intravenous oxytocin** - Oxytocin is indicated to induce or augment labor in patients with favorable cervix findings (i.e., effaced and dilated) who meet the indications for labor induction (e.g., postterm pregnancy, preterm premature rupture of membranes after 34 weeks of gestational age, premature rupture of membranes at term, preeclampsia). This woman's cervix is undilated and 0% effaced, and there is no indication for inducing her at this time.

