### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Prescribe low-dose aspirin** - Prophylactic low-dose aspirin in the second and third trimesters is indicated in all pregnant women with a high risk of developing preeclampsia, as seen here. Other risk factors for preeclampsia include previous preeclampsia, chronic kidney disease, obesity, and thrombophilia (e.g., antiphospholipid syndrome). The initial workup of patients at high risk of developing preeclampsia should include a 24-hour urine collection to assess the baseline kidney function. In addition to low-dose aspirin and routine prenatal care, blood pressure and laboratory values (e.g., platelet count, creatinine, urinary protein, liver chemistry) should be monitored closely (measured 1–2 times weekly). Furthermore, fetal monitoring with ultrasound is indicated every 3 weeks to assess fetal growth.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Repeat ultrasonography weekly** - Weekly ultrasonography is indicated in monochorionic twin pregnancies in the second and third trimesters to monitor fetal growth and screen for twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome. This patient, however, has a dichorionic twin pregnancy without any signs of fetal growth abnormalities. In dichorionic twin pregnancies, serial ultrasounds are usually performed every 4 to 6 weeks to screen for fetal growth restriction and growth discordance.

**B - No further management is indicated at this time** - Monthly prenatal check-ups alone are indicated for patients with an uncomplicated multifetal pregnancy at < 28 weeks' gestation. This patient, however, has multiple risk factors for preeclampsia, making another step necessary.

**D - Perform nonstress test** - A nonstress test (NST) checks for fetal oxygenation and is indicated in high-risk pregnancies (e.g., individuals with gestational diabetes, preeclampsia, uteroplacental insufficiency), for which this patient has multiple risk factors. However, an NST should not be performed before 26–28 weeks' gestation because the fetal nervous system is not mature enough to enable fetal heart rate acceleration. This patient is only at 14 weeks' gestation, making another step more appropriate at this time.

**E - Increase insulin dosage** - Increasing the insulin dosage is appropriate in pregnant patients with type 2 or gestational diabetes mellitus, and elevated hemoglobin A1c. This patient's hemoglobin A1c of 6.4% is already within the recommended range of < 6.5%. Increasing the insulin dosage would put this patient at risk for hypoglycemia.

