### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Breast milk jaundice** - Breast milk jaundice is common in exclusively breastfed neonates and classically presents as indirect hyperbilirubinemia and moderate jaundice in an otherwise healthy infant about 2 weeks after birth. When establishing the diagnosis, it is important to identify the absence of concerning signs of dehydration (tachycardia, dry membranes, poor capillary refill; seen in breastfeeding failure jaundice) or anemia (tachycardia, decreased hematocrit; seen in hemolysis causing hyperbilirubinemia).

In neonates, a normal liver can be palpated up to 3 cm below the costal margin. Livers larger than this may be considered enlarged and warrant further attention.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Biliary atresia** - Biliary atresia is a concerning cause of direct hyperbilirubinemia. Patients with biliary atresia can demonstrate normal development in the first two weeks of life. However, the onset of jaundice, hepatosplenomegaly, and early cirrhosis may occur soon thereafter. This neonate has indirect hyperbilirubinemia, which is not seen with biliary atresia.

**B - Physiologic neonatal jaundice** - Physiologic neonatal jaundice is common in term and preterm neonates. It most often occurs between the 3rd and 8th day of life in term infants as indirect hyperbilirubinemia (< 9 mg/dL) without other concerning signs or symptoms on examination. Although this patient also presents with indirect hyperbilirubinemia, it is much higher and presents later than would be expected with physiologic neonatal jaundice.

**C - Hypothyroidism** - Jaundice due to congenital hypothyroidism results from decreased gut mobility, reduced appetite, and a diminished rate of bilirubin conjugation. Other features such as lethargy, hypotonia, a hoarse cry, macroglossia, umbilical hernia, poor weight gain, and cool and edematous skin, would be expected but are absent.

**D - Isoimmune mediated hemolysis** - Isoimmune mediated hemolysis (also known as hemolytic disease of the newborn) is a less common cause of neonatal jaundice in contemporary practice, due largely to the widespread use of anti-D immunoglobulin. This condition most often causes jaundice that appears within the first 24 hours of life, as the newborn becomes unable to completely clear bilirubin on his or her own (the placenta helps eliminate bilirubin in utero). The hallmark laboratory finding is anemia; this patient, however, demonstrates a normal hematocrit.

**F - Breastfeeding failure jaundice** - Breastfeeding failure jaundice is a common cause of neonatal jaundice within the first week of life and typically presents with hypovolemia. Hypovolemia in neonates manifests with tachycardia, decreased urine output (usually fewer wet diapers), cool or clammy skin, and irritability or drowsiness. Apart from skin discoloration, this patient appears healthy and did not have jaundice until 12 days old, making breastfeeding failure an unlikely cause of her jaundice.

**G - Crigler-Najjar syndrome type 1** - Crigler-Najjar syndrome type 1 is a rare but concerning cause of indirect hyperbilirubinemia. Because of an absent UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activity, newborns present within the first week with excessive neonatal jaundice (20–50 mg/dL unconjugated serum bilirubin; absent conjugated bilirubin) and neurological symptoms (e.g., athetosis) caused by kernicterus. This patient presents at 2 weeks with much lower bilirubin levels and milder symptoms.

