### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Acute fatty liver of pregnancy** - This patient's presentation and laboratory findings indicate acute fatty liver of pregnancy (AFLP), a rare obstetric emergency that most commonly occurs in the third trimester. Initial symptoms are often nonspecific (e.g., diffuse abdominal pain, malaise, nausea, and vomiting), but AFLP may rapidly lead to acute hepatic failure, acute kidney injury, and hypoglycemia as seen in this patient. While hemolysis and thrombocytopenia are not necessary to diagnose AFLP, they are found in about 50% of patients. Given the risk of severe fetal and maternal complications associated with AFLP (including intrauterine fetal demise, maternal DIC and multi-organ failure), prompt delivery is indicated.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Preeclampsia** - Preeclampsia is a complication of pregnancy that develops after 20 weeks of gestation and can manifest with upper abdominal pain, nausea/vomiting, and altered mental status, which are all seen here. This patient's previous history of preeclampsia is a significant risk factor for preeclampsia in her current pregnancy and future pregnancies. However, the diagnosis requires evidence of new-onset hypertension (≥ 140/90 mm Hg on ≥ 2 occasions) plus either proteinuria or significant end-organ dysfunction (e.g., cerebral or visual disturbances, hemolysis, thrombocytopenia, pulmonary edema, hepatic or renal dysfunction). Although this patient's clinical and laboratory findings indicate severe end-organ dysfunction, her normal blood pressure excludes preeclampsia.

**C - HELLP syndrome** - Hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet (HELLP) syndrome is a complication of pregnancy that usually occurs in the third trimester and can manifest with right upper quadrant pain, malaise, nausea, vomiting, and scleral jaundice, which are all seen here. However, HELLP syndrome is almost always associated with arterial hypertension and proteinuria, which this patient does not have. The presence of hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelets does not automatically confirm the diagnosis of HELLP syndrome. Moreover, this patient presents with signs and symptoms of severe hepatic insufficiency, acute kidney injury, hypoglycemia, and low-grade fever, which are rarely seen in HELLP syndrome.

**D - Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy** - Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy most commonly occurs in the third trimester and can manifest with right upper quadrant pain, nausea, vomiting, and scleral jaundice, which are seen here. However, this condition is characterized by intense pruritus, usually of the palms and soles, which this patient does not have. Moreover, intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy would not result in the hepatic insufficiency seen here. Although mild elevation of liver enzymes and mixed hyperbilirubinemia are consistent with intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy, hemolysis, thrombocytopenia, or coagulopathy are not associated with this condition.

**E - Acute viral hepatitis A** - Acute viral hepatitis A (HAV) can manifest with right upper quadrant pain, nausea, vomiting, fever, and scleral jaundice, which are seen in this patient. However, acute hepatitis A infection during pregnancy very rarely results in acute liver failure. This patient has a history of travel to Belize, a country with a high incidence of HAV. However, that was 4 months ago and the incubation period is approximately 28 days. Although mixed hyperbilirubinemia and elevated liver enzymes are typically seen in acute hepatitis, hemolysis and thrombocytopenia are rare. Finally, this patient has positive anti-HAV IgG antibodies and negative anti-HAV IgM antibodies, indicating that she has pre-existing immunity against HAV without active infection.

**F - Acute viral hepatitis B** - Acute viral hepatitis B (HBV) can manifest with right upper quadrant pain, nausea, vomiting, fever, and scleral jaundice, which are seen in this patient. However, acute hepatitis B infection during pregnancy very rarely leads to acute liver failure. Four months ago, this patient traveled to Belize, a country with an intermediate prevalence of HBV, and HBV has an incubation period of approximately 4 months. However, although mixed hyperbilirubinemia and elevated liver are typically found in acute hepatitis, hemolysis and thrombocytopenia are rare. Finally, this patient's serology is negative for HBsAg, positive for anti-HBs, and negative for anti-HBc antibodies, indicating that she is vaccinated and has immunity against HBV.

