### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Hemorrhage** - Newborns have low vitamin K values, partially due to a lack of gut colonization from vitamin K-producing bacteria, limited liver storage capacity, and poor placental passage of vitamin K, all of which increase their risk of bleeding. Normally, all newborns in the United States receive an intramuscular vitamin K shot at birth to mitigate this risk. Because this child was delivered at home without any medical intervention, it is very likely that he did not receive vitamin K and as such is at increased risk of hemorrhage, including potentially severe brain hemorrhage.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Secondary hyperparathyroidism** - Secondary hyperparathyroidism is caused by hypocalcemia, which can be a result of maternal hypocalcemia or diabetes, preterm birth, or newborn sepsis or asphyxia. However, none of these are the case here. Furthermore, breast milk supplies abundant calcium, making hypocalcemia and secondary hyperparathyroidism very unlikely.

**C - Gastroenteritis** - Breastfeeding is associated with a decreased risk of gastroenteritis. Breast milk contains antibodies and is therefore an important source of protection against numerous infectious diseases. The most abundant antibody found in breast milk is IgA, an integral part of mucosal immunity, which also helps to protect the gastrointestinal mucosa of the infant against gastroenteritis.

**D - Acute lymphoblastic leukemia** - Breastfeeding is associated with a decreased risk of childhood cancers, including leukemias and lymphomas.

**E - Iron deficiency anemia** - Iron deficiency anemia (IDA) is primarily a concern in preterm infants because of their lower stores of iron, although it can also be caused by blood loss during or after birth. However, this newborn was born at term and the delivery did not involve any complications. Breastfed infants are also at risk of IDA because breast milk contains only limited amounts of iron. To prevent IDA in breastfed infants, they should receive an additional iron source starting by 4 months of age in full-term infants and by 2 weeks of age in premature infants. Although this infant is being exclusively breastfed, he is not at increased risk of IDA at this time, as most full-term newborns have sufficient iron stores for up to 4 months.

**F - Diabetes mellitus** - Breastfeeding is associated with a decreased risk of both type 1 diabetes mellitus and type 2 diabetes mellitus.

**G - Scurvy** - Scurvy is the clinical manifestation of vitamin C deficiency and is an extremely rare disease in western, industrialized countries. Symptoms include swollen gums, poor wound healing, mucosal bleeding, corkscrew hair on the body, and generalized weakness/fatigue. Because this newborn is being breastfed and breast milk contains sufficient vitamin C, he does not have an increased risk of scurvy.

**H - Subacute combined degeneration** - Subacute combined degeneration is caused by vitamin B12 deficiency and can lead to severe neural tube defects and developmental disability. Unless the mother already had a deficiency during pregnancy or has a lack of vitamin B12 now, her breast milk should supply enough vitamin B12 to the child.

**I - Intussusception** - Intussusception is generally an idiopathic condition, but is often associated with a triggering viral gastrointestinal infection or less often with lead points. Since this infant is currently being breast fed, he has a decreased risk of gastrointestinal infections, which thereby also decreases his chances of developing intussusception.

