### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Observation for another hour** - This nulliparous woman has had full cervical dilation and effacement for 1 hour (second stage of labor), but the baby remains at -1 station. On average, labor progresses slower during the first delivery, and the second stage may take up to 2 hours in this patient (up to 3 hours in a nulliparous woman with epidural anesthesia). The fetal monitor shows no abnormalities, the patient's contractions are adequate, and she is tolerating the pain well, making observation the best option for this patient.

Oxytocin should be considered for prolonged second stage of labor when descent is minimal and maternal uterine contractions are inadequate (occurring > 2–3 minutes and/or with pressures < 200 Montevideo units).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administration of terbutaline** - Terbutaline is used as a tocolytic in preterm labor (< 37 weeks) to delay delivery for up to 48–72 hours, allowing time for the administration of steroids. Because this patient is full term (40 weeks) and has already advanced to stage 2 of labor, terbutaline is not indicated.

**B - Cesarean delivery** - Cesarean delivery is indicated for patients with a prolonged second stage of labor (> 2 hours for nullipara without epidural anesthesia) when the fetal head is not engaged. This patient is only 1 hour into the second stage of labor, and therefore is still within the normal time limits for a primiparous woman. Cesarean delivery is not indicated at this time.

**C - Vacuum-assisted delivery** - Vacuum-assisted delivery can be considered for prolonged second stage of labor (> 2 hours for nullipara without epidural anesthesia) if the fetus is descended to a station where operative vaginal delivery seems feasible to an experienced clinician. This patient is only 1 hour into the second stage of labor and is therefore still within normal time limits for a primiparous woman. Other indications for vacuum-assisted delivery include fetal compromise (e.g., insufficient fetal heart rate) or settings in which maternal exertion should be avoided (e.g. maternal cardiovascular instability or fatigue), neither of which is the case here.

**E - Forceps delivery** - Forceps delivery can be considered for prolonged second stage of labor (> 2 hours for nullipara without epidural anesthesia) if the fetus is descended to a station where operative vaginal delivery seems feasible to an experienced clinician. This patient is only 1 hour into the second stage of labor, and therefore still within the normal time limits for a primiparous woman. Other indications for forceps delivery include fetal compromise (e.g., insufficient fetal heart rate) or settings in which maternal exertion should be avoided (e.g. maternal cardiovascular instability or fatigue), neither of which is the case here.

**F - Epidural anesthesia** - Epidural anesthesia can reduce the pain associated with labor. This patient is tolerating the pain well, however, making epidural anesthesia unnecessary.

