### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Mode** - The mode is the most common value of a data set. Because the mode is not based on a calculated average but on the frequency of data points occurring, it is most resistant against single outliers. If a mode exists, one value of the data set appears more frequently than all other values (that is, at least twice). Therefore, including two additional values would not change this frequency distribution (as long as the two outliers are not equal).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Median** - The median represents the middle value of a data set when the set is arranged in order of the magnitude of the values. The median is usually equivalent to the 50th percentile and divides the upper half of the data set from the lower half. Although the median is relatively resistant to outliers, including the two outliers in the lower end of the data set would cause a slight decrease to the median.

**C - Standard error** - The standard error of the mean (SEM) estimates the deviation of the sample mean from the population mean. It is directly proportional to the standard deviation (SD) and inversely proportional to the sample size (n): SEM = SD/√n. In this case, including the two outliers would increase √n (denominator), which would decrease the SEM. At the same time, the SD (numerator) would increase because the two values are outliers, thereby increasing the SEM. Thus, adding the two outliers to the data set would not leave the SEM unaffected (even though a prediction on the direction of change is not possible without actual numbers).

**D - Variance** - Variance is a measure of dispersion (like standard deviation) indicating how far data is spread out. Including the two outliers would increase the variance.

**E - Mean** - The mean is the arithmetic average of a data set (i.e., the sum of all the data divided by the number of values in the data set) and is easily affected by outliers. In this case, including the two outliers would decrease the mean.

