### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Consumption of soft cheese** - This clinical vignette is most consistent with listeriosis. L. monocytogenes is a gram-positive, catalase-positive organism that grows at refrigeration temperatures (4°C). Deli meats, poultry, and unpasteurized milk (often used for soft cheeses) are common sources. Listeriosis typically manifests with fever, malaise, abdominal pain, and diarrhea, most commonly in the third trimester. It is associated with higher rates of miscarriage, stillbirth, and preterm birth. Congenital listeriosis occurs via transplacental transmission, while neonatal listeriosis occurs following either transplacental infection or inoculation at birth from contaminated vaginal secretions. Symptoms vary based on the route and timing of infection, ranging from minor, self-limiting illness to sepsis and death.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Blood transfusion** - Blood transfusion is not a mode of transmission for L. monocytogenes. Hepatitis B and C, HIV, and Zika virus can be transmitted through contaminated blood.

**B - Sexual contact** - Although sexual contact is a rare transmission mode of L. monocytogenes, another mode is much more likely. Sexually transmitted infections include chlamydia, hepatitis B, and gonorrhea, among others, none of which are gram-positive, catalase-positive organisms.

**D - Ingestion of cat feces** - Ingestion of cat feces is especially associated with the transmission of Toxoplasma gondii, which is a parasite and not a gram-positive organism as seen in this patient. Toxoplasmosis is usually asymptomatic, including in pregnant patients. Congenital toxoplasmosis can, however, lead to serious complications for the fetus and newborn.

**E - Drinking contaminated water** - Drinking contaminated water is a mode of transmission for multiple illnesses (e.g., cholera, legionellosis, typhoid fever) and although L. monocytogenes may be transmitted via this route, another source is much more likely.

**F - Inhalation of droplets** - Droplet transmission is a common mode of many infections, but not a mode by which listeriosis is spread. Varicella is a viral infection spread by droplets that is especially clinically relevant during pregnancy. A varicella blood culture would, however, not show the gram-positive organisms seen in this patient.

