### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Iron deficiency anemia** - Preterm infants have lower iron stores, smaller total blood volume, lower placental iron transfer, and greater blood loss through phlebotomy than infants born at term. Because these infants are still rapidly growing, they require more daily iron than infants born at term. As breast milk does not contain enough iron to meet these requirements, daily iron supplementation is necessary until 6 months of age to prevent the development of iron deficiency anemia.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Intussusception** - Intussusception is usually idiopathic, although it is often associated with a viral gastrointestinal infection. Less often, it is associated with a lead point. Since this infant is currently being breastfed, she has a decreased risk of gastrointestinal infection, which also decreases the risk of intussusception.

**C - Scurvy** - Scurvy is the clinical manifestation of vitamin C deficiency and is an extremely rare disease in western, industrialized countries. Symptoms include swollen gums, poor wound healing, mucosal bleeding, corkscrew hair on the body, and generalized weakness and fatigue. Because this newborn is breastfed and breast milk contains sufficient vitamin C, she does not have an increased risk of scurvy.

**D - Gastroenteritis** - Breastfeeding is associated with a decreased risk of gastroenteritis. Breast milk contains antibodies and is therefore an important source of protection against numerous infectious diseases. The most abundant antibody found in breast milk is IgA, an integral part of mucosal immunity, which also helps to protect the gastrointestinal mucosa of the infant against gastroenteritis.

**E - Subacute combined degeneration** - Subacute combined degeneration is caused by vitamin B12 deficiency and can lead to severe neural tube defects and developmental disabilities. Vitamin B12 deficiency during pregnancy can arise if the mother is on a very strict vegan diet and not receiving enough vitamin B12 from, e.g., fortified foods or supplements. Unless the mother already had a deficiency during pregnancy or insufficient dietary consumption of vitamin B12 now, her breast milk should supply enough vitamin B12 to the child.

**F - Mucosal hemorrhage** - Newborns usually have low vitamin K stores. Since the neonatal intestine is sterile and vitamin K does not cross the placental barrier, these low stores increase the risk of vitamin K deficiency bleeding (VKDB), which can manifest as spontaneous mucosal, gastrointestinal, intraventricular, or subgaleal bleeds. Because breast milk does not contain vitamin K, all newborns in the US receive a vitamin K injection at birth to mitigate the risk of hemorrhage.

