### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Underestimation of gestational age** - Incorrect estimation of the gestational age is the most common cause of abnormal α-fetoprotein (AFP) levels; in this case, the patient most likely underestimated the duration of her pregnancy. As a result, the AFP value was compared to the standardized mean for a 17-week-old fetus when, in actuality, the fetus was further along in development. Because AFP is synthesized by the fetal yolk sac, liver, and gastrointestinal tract, its concentration increases throughout pregnancy as the fetus grows. Thus, an inaccurate gestational age can cause the maternal serum level to appear abnormally low or high. Measurement of maternal serum AFP is often combined with fetal ultrasound to ensure that the blood test is interpreted based on the correct gestational age.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Robertsonian translocation** - Robertsonian translocation accounts for a minority of cases of Down syndrome, Patau syndrome, and Edwards syndrome and would be associated with a normal chromosomal number, as seen here. However, Down syndrome, Patau syndrome, and Edwards syndrome would usually result in decreased levels of α-fetoprotein (AFP) and estriol in maternal serum, and abnormal findings on first-trimester ultrasonography (e.g., increased nuchal translucency). The constellation of increased AFP, normal serum β-hCG and estriol, and normal first-trimester ultrasound has a different explanation.

**C - Congenital umbilical hernia** - Congenital umbilical hernia is associated with normal α-fetoprotein (AFP) in maternal serum. It is caused by incomplete closure of the abdominal ring and commonly manifests as an asymptomatic, reducible, skin-covered bulge at the umbilicus. It is distinct from gastroschisis and omphalocele, both of which are abdominal wall defects that cause exposure and herniation of abdominal viscera as well as elevated AFP levels.

**D - Spina bifida occulta** - Although spina bifida (and other open neural tube defects) manifests with an elevated AFP, spina bifida occulta is associated with a normal α-fetoprotein (AFP) in maternal serum. Because spina bifida occulta does not result in a communication between the fetal tissue and the amniotic fluid, AFP cannot leak into the amnion. Neonates with this condition classically present with a tuft of hair or skin dimple at the level of the defect in the lumbar spine.

**E - Maternal hypothyroidism** - Congenital hypothyroidism due to thyroid dysgenesis is associated with increased α-fetoprotein (AFP) but maternal hypothyroidism is not associated with elevated AFP.

**F - Gestational trophoblastic disease** - Gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD) would not result in a viable fetus. Moreover, GTD would have resulted in elevated serum β-hCG, decreased or normal α-fetoprotein (AFP), and an intrauterine mass with multiple hypoechoic foci on ultrasonography. The constellation of normal serum β-hCG, increased α-fetoprotein (AFP), normal first-trimester ultrasound, and viable term pregnancy has a different explanation.

