### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Congenital toxoplasmosis** - This newborn's chorioretinitis, diffuse intracranial calcifications, signs of hydrocephalus (enlarged head circumference, ventriculomegaly), and sensorineural hearing loss are indicative of congenital toxoplasmosis. The diagnosis is further supported by the presence of purpuric rash, jaundice, seizures, and signs of intrauterine growth restriction (premature birth, small for gestational age).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Congenital rubella infection** - Although this newborn's low birth weight, purpuric rash (“blueberry muffin” rash), jaundice, chorioretinitis, hydrocephalus, and hearing loss are consistent with congenital rubella infection, the mother's immunizations are up-to-date, meaning that intrauterine infection is very unlikely. Diffuse intracranial calcifications are also more consistent with another diagnosis. Additionally, cataracts are an important and common finding, which this infant does not have.

**C - Congenital CMV infection** - Premature delivery, low birth weight, seizures, jaundice, hearing loss, chorioretinitis, and purpuric rash may all be seen in congenital CMV infection. Intracranial calcifications are limited to the periventricular region. This patient's calcifications, however, are diffusely present throughout the cortical, subcortical, and periventricular region. In addition, ventriculomegaly in congenital CMV would not be expected.

**D - Congenital syphilis infection** - Congenital syphilis may result in premature delivery, low birth weight, neonatal jaundice, and chorioretinitis. Although hearing loss and seizures can also occur, these features would not be present at birth. Other clinical manifestations in this neonate, such as intracranial calcifications and hydrocephalus, are also not typically associated with congenital syphilis.

**E - Congenital parvovirus infection** - Symptomatic congenital parvovirus infection presents with severe aplastic anemia, fetal hydrops, and/or a high-output cardiac failure, which is inconsistent with this neonate's presentation.

**F - Congenital varicella infection** - A congenital varicella infection could explain this patient's low birth weight, chorioretinitis, and seizures. However, the mother's vaccinations are up-to-date, meaning intrauterine infection is very unlikely. Additionally, dermatomal hypertrophic scars would be expected, which are present in ∼ 80% of cases.

