### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Premature placental separation** - Maternal cocaine use can result in premature placental separation by its direct vasoconstriction of uterine blood vessels and maternal hypertension. Cocaine can also cause intrauterine growth delays (due to placental insufficiency) and predisposes to premature delivery. This mother should be counseled on the risk of all drug use, including alcohol.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Aplasia cutis congenita** - Methimazole is a teratogen that can cause aplasia cutis congenita, and is therefore contraindicated in the first trimester of pregnancy. This patient is not taking methimazole, as it is used for the treatment of hyperthyroidism, not hypothyroidism.

**B - Cretinism** - Maternal hypothyroidism can result in cretinism in neonates due to insufficient thyroid hormone. Although this mother has a history of hypothyroidism, she is currently on levothyroxine with a normal TSH. Since she is euthyroid, her fetus is not at increased risk for cretinism.

**C - Chromosomal abnormality** - The risk of fetal chromosomal abnormalities significantly increases with maternal age. Given that this patient is 30 years old, her fetus has a 1/385 risk of having a chromosomal abnormality. However, her cocaine use places her fetus at an even greater risk for another complication.

**D - Neural tube defect** - Neural tube defects are most commonly due to folate deficiency. This patient is already taking the recommended folate requirements (i.e., 0.4 mg of folate daily), and is not taking any medications that interfere with folate absorption (e.g., valproate) or metabolism (e.g. trimethoprim) that would place her fetus at increased risk for neural tube defects.

**F - Right ventricular atrialization** - Right ventricular atrialization describes Ebstein anomaly, which is associated with maternal lithium use. Although lithium is used to treat bipolar disorder, this patient is currently taking quetiapine for her psychiatric condition, which is not associated with Ebstein anomaly.

**G - Shoulder dystocia** - Gestational diabetes mellitus is associated with macrosomia and shoulder dystocia. This patient has no history of diabetes.

