### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Reassurance and symptomatic therapy** - The fetus of a woman infected with rubella is at risk of developing congenital rubella syndrome, especially during the first trimester. After the 16th week of gestation, however, the risk of developing congenital defects is very low and the pregnancy can be continued; reassurance and symptomatic therapy (e.g., acetaminophen) are usually recommended. If rubella infection occurred before 16 weeks of gestation, the patient should be counseled about the potentially devastating effects on the fetus and be offered termination of pregnancy.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Acyclovir** - Acyclovir is used in the treatment of chickenpox (varicella zoster), which may cause congenital varicella syndrome. Chickenpox presents with an itchy rash and a flu-like prodrome. This patient has a maculopapular rash instead of a vesiculopustular rash at different stages at once, the latter being typical for chickenpox. Additionally, the rash in chickenpox starts on the trunk, not on the face.

**B - Termination of pregnancy** - Counseling to terminate pregnancy is indicated if maternal rubella infection occurs during the first trimester. The risk of congenital rubella syndrome is extremely low (< 1%) if fetal rubella infection occurs after 16 weeks of gestation. Given the incubation period of rubella infection (2–3 weeks) and the fact that clinical features of maternal rubella infection occurred at 24 weeks of gestation, it is safe to assume that this patient could have, at worst, acquired the infection at 21 weeks of gestation. Termination of pregnancy is therefore not recommended in this patient.

**C - Vaccination** - The rubella vaccine (MMR) is a live vaccine and is therefore contraindicated during pregnancy. Furthermore, vaccination would not be helpful for this patient who already has the condition. It should, however, be administered to all non-pregnant women of child-bearing age who have an unknown vaccination history or are seronegative for rubella-specific IgG.

**E - Immunoglobulins** - If a pregnant woman is exposed to a patient with rubella, passive immunization with immunoglobulins within 5 days of exposure can prevent maternal rubella infection. However, routine administration of immunoglobulins is not recommended if rubella infection has already become symptomatic, as seen here. In addition, while it may reduce maternal symptoms, IVIG does not prevent congenital rubella syndrome. As this patient has mild symptoms and is already in the 24th week of her pregnancy, this intervention would not be indicated.

