### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Repeat urine culture** - Asymptomatic bacteriuria during pregnancy is associated with maternal complications (e.g., pyelonephritis, preeclampsia) and fetal complications (e.g., low birth weight, perinatal mortality due to preterm birth), and thus should always be managed with antibiotic therapy. Since up to one-third of patients have persistent bacteriuria after initial antibiotic therapy, all patients require a follow-up urine culture around one week after treatment to guide further management. Patients with a negative follow-up urine culture require no further testing for bacteriuria unless UTI symptoms develop. Women with persistent bacteriuria should receive another course of antibiotic therapy based on the follow-up culture results.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Obtain urinalysis** - Urinalysis should be obtained in pregnant women who present with symptoms of a UTI (e.g., dysuria, urinary urgency, urinary frequency). This patient, however, is asymptomatic. Urinalysis is not necessary for the follow-up evaluation of patients who have asymptomatic bacteriuria during pregnancy.

**C - Perform renal and pelvic ultrasonography** - Renal and pelvic ultrasonography is used to screen for complications of pyelonephritis (e.g., perinephric abscess, emphysematous pyelonephritis). Although this patient's asymptomatic bacteriuria puts her at increased risk of developing pyelonephritis, she does not have any features that suggest upper urinary tract involvement (e.g., flank pain, fever, chills). Ultrasonography is not necessary for the follow-up evaluation of patients who have asymptomatic bacteriuria during pregnancy.

**D - Prescribe prophylactic nitrofurantoin** - Prophylactic nitrofurantoin is indicated for pregnant women with recurrent UTIs (e.g., recurrent cystitis and/or pyelonephritis). This patient, however, has no prior history of UTI during pregnancy. Prophylactic nitrofurantoin is not indicated in patients with asymptomatic bacteriuria, even if it is persistent or recurrent.

**E - No further management is indicated at this time** - No further management is indicated in pregnant patients with asymptomatic bacteriuria who respond to antibiotic therapy. Although this patient has completed a 7-day course of cefpodoxime, it is unknown whether this treatment has resolved her asymptomatic bacteriuria. For this reason, a different step is required at this time.

