### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Bimanual uterine massage** - Uterine atony is the most common cause of PPH, accounting for 70–80% of all cases. Initial management involves bimanual uterine massage to induce uterine contraction and the constriction of blood vessels. In addition, patients should receive intravenous fluid resuscitation with crystalloid fluids. Risk factors for atony include multiparity leading to uterine overdistention (as seen in this patient), prolonged labor, induction of labor, and chorioamnionitis.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Methylergometrine** - Methylergometrine is a uterotonic agent that can be used in cases of PPH secondary to uterine atony, as seen in this patient. However, methylergometrine is a second-line agent that is used after, or in combination with, first-line interventions. An alternative intervention would be a more appropriate next step in management for this patient. Note that this drug is contraindicated in patients with hypertension or preeclampsia because it can cause severe increases in blood pressure.

**B - Hysterectomy** - Hysterectomy may ultimately be the definitive treatment in women with severe and refractory PPH. However, emergency hysterectomy is a last-resort treatment option in hemodynamically unstable patients that do not respond to conservative management. This patient should first undergo a different intervention.

**C - Uterine artery embolization** - Uterine artery embolization can be used as a fertility-sparing procedure in patients with slow, hemodynamically stable, yet persistent PPH. Uterine artery embolization is an appropriate treatment option in patients that do not respond to conservative management; however, this patient should first undergo a different intervention.

**D - Misoprostol** - Prostaglandins such as misoprostol and carboprost are uterotonic agents that can be used as second-line agents in the management of uterine atony. These drugs have potentially severe side effects (e.g., hypertension, fever, bronchospasm) and should therefore only be used after other interventions have failed to adequately control the bleeding.

**E - Curettage with suctioning** - Curettage with suctioning is a treatment modality that can be used for PPH secondary to retained placental tissue. Risk factors for placental retention include prior uterine surgery, uterine fibroids, and preterm delivery. This patient's presentation is consistent with uterine atony, which is not treated by curettage with suctioning.

**F - Tranexamic acid** - Tranexamic acid is an antifibrinolytic agent that acts to prevent plasmin-mediated breakdown of fibrin and can be used to treat excessive bleeding. Although tranexamic acid has been shown to reduce mortality and blood loss from obstetric hemorrhage, it is not the intervention of choice. However, it should be administered immediately if initial interventions fail to adequately control bleeding, since delayed administration can decrease its efficacy.

