### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Fetal macrosomia** - Any condition that decreases intrauterine space during gestation (e.g., fetal macrosomia, multiple gestation, oligohydramnios) is a risk factor for the development of congenital torticollis due to fetal malpositioning and decreased intrauterine movement. In addition, fetal macrosomia, like breech presentation, increases the risk of perinatal trauma to the neonate's sternocleidomastoid muscles (e.g., through forceps-assisted delivery or vacuum-assisted delivery), which is another risk factor for the development of congenital torticollis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Cesarean delivery** - Cesarean delivery is not a proven risk factor for the development of congenital torticollis. C-section is less likely than assisted vaginal delivery to cause traction to the neonate's neck, which is a known risk factor for congenital torticollis.

**C - Fetal vertex presentation** - Vertex presentation is the most common form of cephalic presentation; it is not a predisposing factor for the development of congenital torticollis.

**D - Intrauterine exposure to haloperidol** - Haloperidol (and other dopamine receptor antagonists) can cause acute dystonia, which manifests with torticollis if the sternocleidomastoid muscle is involved. However, dystonic torticollis does not manifest with a palpable mass in the sternocleidomastoid muscle, as seen in this infant.

**E - Polyhydramnios** - Polyhydramnios increases intrauterine space; it is not a predisposing factor for the development of congenital torticollis.

**F - Preterm birth** - Preterm birth (i.e., live birth before 37 weeks of gestation) is not a direct risk factor for the development of congenital torticollis. Conditions associated with preterm birth include neonatal respiratory distress syndrome, retinopathy of prematurity, necrotizing enterocolitis, persistent fetal circulation, intracranial hemorrhage, and sepsis.

