### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Exploratory laparotomy and delivery** - Exploratory laparotomy and an emergency cesarean section are indicated in patients with uterine rupture, as seen here. After delivery, the extent of uterine wall damage should be evaluated. In patients with extensive or unrepairable uterine defects, uncontrolled hemorrhage, and/or significant hemodynamic instability, a hysterectomy should be performed. Patients with rupture of an unscarred uterus, like this woman, are more likely to undergo a hysterectomy than patients with a history of uterine scarring (e.g., hysterotomy for cesarean delivery).

In women who do not have to undergo a hysterectomy and desire future pregnancies, rupture recurrence can be prevented by scheduling a cesarean delivery before the onset of labor, generally at 36–37 weeks' gestation.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Labor augmentation with oxytocin** - Labor augmentation with oxytocin can be used for the management of abnormal or inadequate contractions in high-risk patients (e.g., postterm pregnancy or gestational diabetes) when there is hemodynamic instability and there are signs of fetal distress. However, this patient's clinical features suggest uterine rupture, which requires a different intervention.

**B - Intrauterine pressure catheter placement** - Intrauterine pressure catheters (IUPCs) are used for maternal and fetal evaluation during labor. They are also indicated in amnioinfusion, which can be considered in recurrent variable fetal heart rate decelerations. Nevertheless, the recurrent variable decelerations here are most likely attributable to uterine rupture, for which neither IUPC insertion nor amnioinfusion is indicated. Moreover, given the potential iatrogenic complications associated with these procedures (e.g., injuries of the placenta, umbilical cord), they should be avoided in patients with suspected uterine rupture.

**C - Operative vaginal delivery** - Operative vaginal delivery can be considered if there are signs of fetal compromise and the patient has no contraindications for the procedure. Although the fetal monitoring here shows clear signs of fetal distress, the patient's presentation and physical examination findings are consistent with uterine rupture, for which operative vaginal delivery is not appropriate.

**D - Ultrasound of the abdomen** - Abdominal ultrasound can be used to confirm the presence and identify the potential causes of uterine rupture in patients who are hemodynamically stable if there are no signs of fetal distress. This patient with suspected uterine rupture presents with vaginal bleeding, hypotension, and tachycardia, all of which suggest significant blood volume loss and hemodynamic instability. Fetal monitoring shows recurrent variable decelerations, which suggest fetal distress. Performing an abdominal ultrasound would only delay treatment and worsen the prognosis of both the mother and child.

