### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Chi-square test** - The Chi-square test is ideal for comparing two categorical (nominal) variables regardless of the number of subgroups or levels per variable. The first categorical variable in this case is treatment with alkylating agent (versus control). The second categorical variable is nausea (ranked as mild, moderate, and severe). A Chi-square test identifies whether the observations differ significantly from what would be expected by chance and thus tests for statistical significance. The null hypothesis is rejected if there is a statistically significant difference in the proportions of nausea between the two groups.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Analysis of variance** - Analysis of variance (ANOVA) tests are used to compare the difference between the means of a continuous outcome variable of three or more sample populations. Here, there are only two sample populations (treatment versus control group), so ANOVA would not be the appropriate test. It could be used, for example, if blood pressure readings were compared between the control group, patients who received the alkylating agent, and patients who received a different chemotherapy regimen (separate from the alkylating agent).

**B - Multiple logistic regression** - In multiple logistic regression, the relationship between ≥ 2 continuous or categorical predictor variables (i.e., exposure; here: treatment versus control) and a categorical outcome variable (outcome, here: nausea) is modeled with a line of best fit. While different levels of nausea are a categorical dependent variable, the term multiple regression is reserved for models with two or more independent variable and more commonly, the independent variable is continuous. Therefore, a different statistical test would be more appropriate. Multiple logistic regression could be used, for example, to evaluate the effects of age, oral drug dosage, and intestinal transit time on nausea level.

**C - Unpaired t-test** - An unpaired t-test is used to compare the means of a continuous outcome variable of two different predictor groups. Here, the investigator is comparing the difference between the proportions of a categorized outcome variable (nausea level) among two predictor groups (treatment versus control group). Consequently, an unpaired t-test would not be applicable. It could be used, for example, if the investigator was comparing serum glucose levels (a continuous variable) in the two sample populations.

**D - Paired t-test** - A paired t-test is used to compare the means of a continuous outcome variable of one predictor group at two points of time. Here, the investigator is comparing the difference between the proportions of a categorized outcome variable (nausea level) among two predictor groups (treatment versus control group). Consequently, a paired t-test would not be applicable. It could be used, for example, if the investigator was comparing serum glucose levels (a continuous variable) at baseline and after 2 months of therapy in the treatment group.

**E - Multiple linear regression** - In multiple linear regression, the relationship between ≥ 2 continuous or categorical predictor variables (i.e., exposure; here: treatment versus control) and a continuous outcome variable (i.e., outcome; here: nausea) is modeled with a line of best fit. Different levels of nausea do not constitute continuous (numeric) data. Multiple linear regression could be used, for example, to evaluate the effects of age, oral drug dosage, and intestinal transit time on serum drug level.

**F - Pearson correlation coefficient** - The Pearson correlation coefficient describes the strength and polarity of a linear relationship between two continuous variables (no correlation, positive correlation, or negative correlation). The variables in this scenario are categorical, not continuous, and, consequently, the Pearson correlation coefficient is not applicable. The correlation coefficient would be an appropriate test, for example, to assess the relationship between the dose of the alkylating agent and the urine level of that agent.

