### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Serum electrolytes** - Beta-2 receptor agonists, such as terbutaline, can cause hypokalemia by stimulating the Na+/K+-ATPase, which leads to an intracellular K+ shift. Symptoms of hypokalemia include fatigue, proximal muscle weakness, and decreased deep tendon reflexes, as seen in this patient. The diagnosis would be confirmed by a laboratory evaluation of serum potassium levels. Further adverse effects of beta-2 receptor agonists include tremor, headache, anxiety, tachycardia, and palpitations.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Complete blood count** - While anemia can cause fatigue and subjective weakness, it is not associated with proximal muscle weakness and decreased deep tendon reflexes. In addition, the onset of symptoms shortly after exposure to several medications for tocolysis makes another cause more likely.

**C - Serologic antibody testing** - Serologic antibody testing would be indicated if myasthenia gravis was suspected to be the cause of a patient's muscle weakness and fatigue. However, in myasthenia gravis, it is usually ocular muscles and mastication muscles that are affected, not the lower extremities, and decreased deep tendon reflexes would not be expected. Furthermore, the acuity of symptom development in this patient and history of recent tocolysis make another cause more likely.

**D - Muscle biopsy** - Muscle biopsy is indicated for patients with suspected inflammatory myopathies (e.g., polymyositis, dermatomyositis, or inclusion-body myositis), which would present with proximal muscle weakness. However, this most commonly affects the pelvic and shoulder girdle muscles, not the lower extremities. Furthermore, the acuity of symptom development in this patient and history of recent tocolysis make another cause more likely.

**E - Amniotic fluid culture** - While preterm labor is a potential consequence of chorioamnionitis, it is unlikely to be present in this patient with no fever or pelvic pain. Additionally, a bacterial infection would not explain this patient's fatigue and proximal muscle weakness.

**F - Thyroid function tests** - Thyroid function tests are indicated for patients with suspected thyroid disease. While hypothyroidism can cause fatigue and muscle weakness, other symptoms such as bradycardia, cold intolerance, constipation, and weight gain would be expected. Furthermore, the acuity of symptom development in this patient and history of recent tocolysis make another cause more likely.

**G - Electromyography** - Electromyography is indicated in patients with suspected peripheral nervous system, neuromuscular junction, or muscle disease, which all could present with proximal muscle weakness. This patient, however, with no significant past medical history, and recent exposure to several medications for tocolysis, should be evaluated first for medication side effects.

