### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - History of cesarean delivery** - The risk of uterine rupture is highest in patients who undergo a trial of labor after a cesarean. Other factors associated with uterine scarring and, therefore, an increased risk of uterine rupture include a history of uterine rupture or trauma and previous hysterotomy. Factors that increase the risk of uterine rupture to a lesser degree include age ≥ 35 years, an interdelivery interval < 16 months, postterm pregnancy, macrosomia, a history of spontaneous abortion, and induction of labor.

Uterine rupture is an obstetric emergency and requires prompt surgical management with exploratory laparotomy and an emergency cesarean delivery. In patients with extensive or unrepairable uterine defects, uncontrolled hemorrhage, and/or significant hemodynamic instability, a hysterectomy should also be performed.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Interdelivery interval of 2 years** - An interdelivery interval < 16 months is a risk factor for uterine rupture, especially when combined with other risk factors. This patient's interdelivery interval of 2 years is not considered a risk factor for uterine rupture.

**B - History of placenta previa** - This patient's history of placenta previa increases her risk of developing repeated placenta previa in subsequent pregnancies. Vaginal bleeding can occur with this condition. However, the remainder of this patient's presentation (e.g., severe abdominal pain, loss of fetal station) is inconsistent with placenta previa. This patient most likely has uterine rupture, for which placenta previa is not a risk factor.

**D - History of preeclampsia** - Current or past preeclampsia is a risk factor for placental abruption, which can manifest with a sudden onset of abdominal pain, vaginal bleeding, uterine tenderness, and fetal distress, all of which are seen here. However, cessation of contractions and loss of fetal station are not expected in placental abruption. This patient most likely has uterine rupture, for which preeclampsia is not a risk factor.

**E - Maternal age of 36 years** - A maternal age ≥ 35 years is a risk factor for uterine rupture, especially when combined with other predisposing factors. It is not, however, the greatest risk factor for uterine rupture in this patient.

