### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Oxytocin infusion** - Oxytocin infusion is indicated in patients with a protracted active phase to augment the intensity of contractions as uterine hypocontractility is the most common cause of this condition; this patient's low frequency and short duration of contractions are suggestive of hypocontractile uterine activity. In patients who show no progress of fetal station or cervical dilation within 6 hours of oxytocin infusion (i.e., arrested active phase), cesarean delivery should be considered.

Other causes of a protracted active phase of labor include fetal malposition and cephalopelvic disproportion. In these cases, oxytocin administration is contraindicated.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cesarean delivery** - Cesarean delivery is indicated in an arrested active phase of labor, which, in patients with inadequate uterine activity, is characterized by no progress in cervical dilation over the course of 6 hours. This patient's cervix dilated from 7 to 8 cm within the last 2 hours, which is consistent with a protracted, rather than arrested, active phase of labor. Furthermore, there is currently no fetal indication to perform cesarean delivery.

**B - Reassurance and close follow-up** - Reassurance and close follow-up are indicated in patients with a prolonged latent phase of labor, which is characterized by a cervical dilation of < 6 cm over the course of > 14 hours in multiparous women (> 20 hours in nulliparous women). This patient's presentation is consistent with a prolonged active, rather than latent, phase of labor, which requires a different intervention.

**C - Assisted vaginal delivery** - Assisted vaginal delivery can be considered in a patient with a prolonged second stage of labor. This patient's cervix is not fully dilated yet (< 10 cm), which means that she is still in the first stage of labor. Assisted vaginal delivery cannot be performed during this stage, as the fetal head is not yet visible in the vaginal opening (crowning).

**E - Placement of intrauterine pressure catheter** - Placement of an intrauterine pressure catheter may be considered in patients whose external tocodynamometry findings are inconclusive in order to assess the characteristics of uterine contractions. This patient's uterine activity, however, has been accurately assessed using an external tocodynamometer. Therefore, another intervention is more appropriate at this time.

