### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Maternal consumption of unpasteurized cheese during pregnancy** - Consumption of unpasteurized milk products is a risk factor for listeriosis, which typically manifests with self-limiting gastroenteritis in healthy adults. In pregnant women, however, listeriosis can cause complications (e.g., fever, chorioamnionitis, PPROM) and result in preterm birth, as seen here, or spontaneous abortion. Transmission from an infected mother to the fetus can either occur transplacentally or via direct contact with infected vaginal secretions and/or blood during delivery. This patient likely has early-onset neonatal listeriosis (granulomatosis infantiseptica), manifesting with severe systemic infection and disseminated organ involvement (i.e., of the liver and lungs). Signs of meningitis (e.g., fever, seizures, hypotonia, abnormal cerebral ultrasound) may develop as early as seen here, especially in preterm neonates, or have a delayed onset in the 3 weeks after birth, typically in full-term neonates with perinatal infection. Both mother and newborn should be treated with IV ampicillin and gentamicin.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Transvaginal transmission of herpes simplex virus** - Congenital herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection can present with signs of CNS disease (e.g., fever, seizures, hypotonia, abnormal brain ultrasound) and sepsis-like disseminated disease (e.g., hepatomegaly, pneumonitis). However, transvaginal transmission mostly occurs in mothers with genital herpes; chorioamnionitis and PPROM are not typical of maternal HSV infection. Infected infants usually also have characteristic diffuse vesicular skin lesions and may develop keratoconjunctivitis, which is not seen here. Finally, CNS disease generally manifests in the second or third week of life rather than 3 days after birth.

**B - Maternal contact with cat feces during pregnancy** - Maternal contact with cat feces during pregnancy is a risk factor for toxoplasmosis. Congenital toxoplasmosis may cause premature birth and manifest with fever, seizures, pneumonitis, and hepatomegaly. However, infected mothers are usually asymptomatic or develop a mononucleosis-like disease during pregnancy; chorioamnionitis and PPROM are not typical. The severity of congenital disease decreases with gestational age: while first-trimester infection usually results in a classic triad (chorioretinitis, diffuse intracranial calcifications, hydrocephalus) and other nonspecific features (e.g., blueberry muffin rash, jaundice, macrocephaly), second- or third-trimester infections are mostly subclinical or mild. This patient's severe neonatal sepsis with meningoencephalitis is better explained by a different condition.

**D - Transplacental transmission of T. pallidum** - Transplacental transmission of Treponema pallidum causes congenital syphilis, which may present with hepatomegaly and, in rare cases, neurological symptoms (e.g., seizures and hypotonia), fever, and sepsis. However, this patient's mother reports no features of present or past syphilis. Moreover, while fetal syphilis may result in miscarriage, stillbirth, or hydrops fetalis, chorioamnionitis or PPROM are not typical. The majority of newborns with congenital syphilis are asymptomatic at birth; symptoms of early congenital syphilis (e.g., jaundice, rhinorrhea, maculopapular rash on the palms and soles, skeletal abnormalities, lymphadenopathy) and, rarely, syphilitic leptomeningitis develop over several months. This newborn's acute septic meningoencephalitis is better explained by a different condition.

**E - Postnatal transmission of cytomegalovirus** - Preterm newborns like this patient are particularly susceptible to postnatal transmission of cytomegalovirus (e.g., through breast milk from an infected mother), and neonatal CMV infection can manifest with fever, seizures, hypotonia, hepatomegaly, pneumonitis, and sepsis. However, CMV infection during pregnancy generally manifests with nonspecific flu-like symptoms rather than chorioamnionitis and PPROM, and transmission is primarily transplacental. At birth, 90% of infected infants are asymptomatic, and those that develop symptoms often also present with a blueberry muffin rash, jaundice, small size for gestational age, microcephaly, and sensorineural hearing loss. Neuroimaging characteristically shows periventricular calcifications and hydrocephalus rather than diffuse hyperechogenicity.

