### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Fetal scalp electrode monitoring** - Fetal scalp electrode (FSE) monitoring is an invasive (or internal) form of intrapartum fetal heart rate (FHR) monitoring that is typically used in patients whose external FHR monitoring poses technical difficulties (e.g., patients with polyhydramnios, uterine leiomyomas, multiple gestation, and/or obesity). FSE monitoring is only performed in patients whose membranes have already ruptured, either spontaneously or via amniotomy. Contraindications for the procedure include active maternal infections (e.g., genital herpes, HIV) and uncertain fetal presentation.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Repositioning and O2 administration** - Repositioning and O2 administration are the most appropriate initial steps of intrauterine resuscitation in the case of fetal distress. It is unknown whether this fetus is in distress because external fetal monitoring failed to obtain a fetal heart tracing, so a different intervention is required at this time.

**B - Operative vaginal delivery** - Operative vaginal delivery is indicated for the management of fetal distress unresponsive to intrauterine resuscitation. It is unknown whether this fetus is in distress because external fetal monitoring failed to obtain a fetal heart tracing. Even if fetal distress was confirmed, intrauterine resuscitation would still be attempted first. Finally, operative vaginal delivery can only be performed if the cervix is fully dilated and the head engaged (i.e., at least at station 0), which is not the case here.

**D - Emergency cesarean section** - An emergency cesarean section is indicated for the management of fetal distress unresponsive to intrauterine resuscitation. However, it is unknown whether this fetus is in distress because external fetal monitoring failed to obtain a fetal heart tracing. Even if fetal distress was confirmed, intrauterine resuscitation should still be attempted first.

**E - Amnioinfusion with saline** - Amnioinfusion with saline is the most appropriate next step of management in cases of fetal distress unresponsive to initial intrauterine resuscitation measures. It is unknown whether this fetus is in distress because external fetal monitoring failed to obtain a fetal heart tracing. Even if fetal distress was confirmed, other intrauterine resuscitation measures should be attempted first.

