### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - ELISA for HIV, rapid plasma reagin test, and serum HBsAg** - The CDC and ACOG recommend testing all pregnant women for HIV (using 3rd or 4th generation ELISA), syphilis (using nontreponemal tests such as VDRL or RPR), and hepatitis B infection (using HBsAg). All women that are < 25 years, have risk factors, or live in an area where prevalence is high should also be screened at the first prenatal visit for Chlamydia and N. gonorrhea infection by PCR of vaginal swabs. All of the tests should be performed at the first prenatal visit, even if previous testing for one or more of the aforementioned infections was negative.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Culture for group B streptococci, hepatitis C serology, and PPD skin test** - Routine antepartum screening for HCV infection is not recommended. Prenatal serological screening for hepatitis C infection is only recommended for women with a history of intravenous drug use, for patients who received transfusion or organ transplantation before 1992 (when widespread screening of blood/organ donors for hepatitis C was initiated), and for women with an STI, none of which applies to this patient.

**B - Serum TSH, CMV serology, and PCR for HSV-2** - Routine serological testing for HSV-2 is not recommended. Prenatal PCR or viral culture of vaginal swabs for HSV-2 would be performed if the patient had active genital herpetic lesions.

**C - PCR for HSV-2, culture for group B streptococci, and Western blot for HIV** - Rectal and vaginal swab cultures for group B streptococci are indicated during pregnancy but they should only be performed at 35–37 weeks of gestation.

**D - PPD skin test, ELISA for HIV, and VDRL** - A PPD skin test, which is used to screen for tuberculosis, is not routinely recommended as a part of prenatal care. The PPD skin test is only indicated in pregnant women with one or more of the following risk factors: known case of HIV infection, close contact with individuals suspected of having tuberculosis, immigration from a highly endemic region, homelessness, living or working in prisons or mental health care facilities, certain non-infectious diseases that increase the risk of tuberculosis (e.g., diabetes mellitus, cancer, alcohol use disorder, intravenous drug use).

**E - VDRL, Western blot for HIV, and serum HBsAg** - A Western blot is not used to screen for HIV infection. In the past, a Western blot was used to confirm HIV infection if the initial (screening) test for HIV was positive. However, as of 2014, the CDC recommends the use of an antibody differentiation assay as the most appropriate next step if the initial test for HIV is positive.

**F - Serum TSH, rapid plasma reagin test, and culture for group B streptococci** - The American Thyroid Association and ACOG only recommend prenatal TSH screening of asymptomatic patients under very specific conditions, including family history of thyroid disease, use of drugs that can affect the thyroid gland, morbid obesity, a history of autoimmune disease, history of multiple prior pregnancies, and history of miscarriage or preterm birth. This 25-year-old, nulliparous, asymptomatic woman with a normal BMI does not meet any of the criteria for TSH testing.

**H - CMV serology, hepatitis C serology, and serum HBsAg** - CMV infection is ubiquitous and serological tests cannot distinguish between recurrent and primary CMV infections (which is important in determining the risk of congenital CMV infection). Moreover, adequate antibody titers against CMV cannot guarantee that vertical transmission will not occur, because most congenital CMV infections occur as a result of reactivation of the latent CMV infection or reinfection with a new strain of CMV. Even if maternal CMV infection is identified, no therapy has been proven to prevent vertical transmission of CMV. For these reasons, CMV serology is not routinely performed during pregnancy.

