### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Cesarean delivery** - This patient has an overt umbilical cord prolapse, as evidenced by the palpable pulsating cord, which typically occurs after membrane rupture and manifests with severe fetal bradycardia (fetal heart rate of < 100 bpm for > 3 minutes). Therefore, the fetus is in severe distress and should be delivered as soon as possible. Most intrauterine resuscitation measures, including continuous fetal heart rate monitoring, manual elevation of the fetal head, repositioning the mother in the knee-chest or Trendelenburg position, administration of O2, and filling the bladder with saline have been unsuccessful, making emergency cesarean delivery the most appropriate next step. In the first stage of labor, cesarean delivery is generally the safest method of birth if maternal and/or fetal health may be compromised by vaginal delivery.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Reevaluation of fetal heart rate after 5 minutes** - Reevaluation of fetal heart rate after 5 minutes may be considered in patients with occult umbilical prolapse if intrauterine resuscitation measures are successful, as evidenced by normalization of the fetal heart rate. However, this patient has an overt umbilical cord prolapse and intrauterine resuscitation measures have not led to any improvement.

**B - Assisted vaginal delivery** - Assisted vaginal delivery with forceps and/or vacuum may be considered if the patient has a prolonged second stage of labor (i.e., the cervix is fully dilated). However, this patient has a cervix that is dilated 5 cm and an overt umbilical cord prolapse. An assisted vaginal delivery at this time would put the fetus's life at risk.

**C - Intravenous oxytocin** - If the fetal heart rate tracing is nonreassuring (< 100 bpm for > 3 minutes), labor-inducing agents such as oxytocin should be withheld until the cause of fetal distress has been addressed. An increase in uterine contractions following oxytocin administration would increase umbilical cord compression, thereby worsening fetal distress.

**E - Manual replacement of the umblical cord** - Manual replacement of the umbilical cord is not recommended due to lack of evidence. Furthermore, handling of the cord might lead to vasospasm, thereby compromising fetal oxygenation.

