### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - 6/15** - Attack rate (cumulative incidence) is calculated by dividing the number of individuals who contracted an illness in a given period of time by the number of individuals who were at risk of contracting that illness during this time. According to this graph, 6 people contracted HUS in May (patient 1 was ill before May; patient 6 fell ill in June). The number of people at risk of contracting HUS in May is 15, as patient 1 was already ill in April and thus, was not at risk of contracting HUS in May. Patient 6 was at risk of contracting the illness throughout May and is included as an exposed individual. However, since the illness did not manifest until June, it is not calculated as a part of the attack rate in May. Therefore, the attack rate of HUS for May is 6/15.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - 6/8** - This is the ratio of those who contracted HUS in May (6 people) to all the individuals who contracted HUS in this family (8 people). This value does not represent the attack rate of HUS in May.

**C - 7/8** - This is the ratio of those who contracted HUS (7 people) after April to all the individuals who contracted HUS in this family (8 people). This value does not represent the attack rate of HUS in May.

**D - 8/16** - This would be the attack rate (cumulative incidence) of HUS among the family members during April, May, and June, not just May. Eight members in a family of 16 members contracted HUS during these months. Thus, the attack rate of HUS in this family during this time is 8/16.

**E - 5/8** - This is the ratio of those who fell ill in May and recovered that same month (5 people; patient 1 was ill before May, patient 6 fell ill in June, and patient 2 remained ill in June) to all the family members who contracted HUS (8 people). This value does not represent the attack rate of HUS in May.

**F - 7/16** - This would be the prevalence of HUS among the family members in May, not the attack rate. Prevalence is calculated by dividing the total number of individuals with the disease at a particular point in time or over a time period by the total number of individuals in the group. Seven people had HUS in May (patient 6 fell ill in June but was disease-free in May) in a family of 16. Thus, the prevalence of HUS among these family members in May is 7/16.

