### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Lower spinal surgery** - Inhibition of folate absorption in the mother due to valproic acid intake leads to an increased risk of neural tube defects such as spina bifida in the embryo, which may require lower spinal surgery after birth. Valproic acid may also cause cognitive impairment, facial, cardiovascular (e.g., ASD), and skeletal abnormalities (e.g., polydactyly), meaning that it should be avoided during pregnancy.

Image File: 1310-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_508c11f48640f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cochlear implantation** - Cochlear implantation is required in some cases of sensorineural hearing loss that may occur if the mother takes an ototoxic aminoglycoside (e.g., gentamicin) during pregnancy, which can damage the vestibulocochlear nerve (CN VIII). As a cochlear implant relies on a functional auditory nerve, cochlear implantation is not indicated if the CN VIII or central auditory pathway is completely nonfunctional. Valproic acid intake is not associated with an increased risk of hearing loss.

**B - Kidney transplantation** - Kidney transplantation may become necessary in patients with end-stage renal disease (e.g., due to glomerulonephritis, toxins). Visceral malformations such as fetal renal dysplasia are rather associated with ACE inhibitors than with valproic acid use during pregnancy.

**C - Respiratory support** - Respiratory support becomes necessary in patients with respiratory depression commonly occurring in maternal opioids use during pregnancy. This patient has no history of opioid intake and valproic acid at therapeutic doses is not known for causing respiratory distress.

**D - Conization procedure** - A conization procedure is used to treat early-stage cervical cancers in women. Clear cell carcinoma of the cervix and vagina is associated with diethylstilbestrol (DES)-exposure during pregnancy. The tumor typically arises in women around 20 years of age. DES use in mothers may also cause congenital Müllerian anomalies in the child. Valproic acid use during pregnancy is not associated with cancer. As the use of DES in pregnant women is mostly discontinued, the incidence of clear cell carcinoma of the cervix and vagina is declining.

**F - Limb surgery** - Limb defects are common in thalidomide embryopathy, a condition due to maternal thalidomide use during pregnancy, which may cause phocomelia and/or micromelia (“flipper limbs”). While limb defects such as polydactyly may occur in mothers taking valproic acid during pregnancy as well, neural tube defects are much more likely.

**G - Dental treatment** - Dental treatment may become necessary in children born to a mother with tetracycline (e.g., doxycycline) intake during pregnancy. Tetracyclines (“teethracyclines”) deposit in the tooth buds, causing significant and persistent discoloration of the teeth later on (i.e., varying intensities of yellow, gray, blue, or brown). The treatment of choice is placement of veneers or crowns to cover the discolored teeth. Valproic acid does not deposit in the teeth.

**H - Administration of growth hormone** - Growth hormone is administered in some children with delayed puberty and growth (e.g., in cases of GH deficiency, idiopathic short stature, Turner syndrome). Intrauterine growth restriction may be caused by placental insufficiency (most common cause in the US), genetic abnormalities (e.g., aneuploidy), maternal hypertensive disease (e.g., preeclampsia, chronic hypertension) or substance abuse (e.g., alcohol, cigarettes, cocaine, heroin). None of these risk factors are present in this patient, and valproic acid at therapeutic doses is not associated with growth restriction.

