### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Hemoglobin electrophoresis** - A nulliparous woman with microcytic anemia evident from blood screening should undergo workup to determine the underlying cause of her anemia. Because iron deficiency anemia (the most common form of microcytic anemia) has been ruled out and this patient is African American, microcytic anemia should raise suspicion of maternal thalassemia. In this case, the confirmatory test is hemoglobin electrophoresis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Measure anticardiolipin antibody titers** - Anticardiolipin antibody is present in antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, which is strongly associated with lupus. Because this patient has no features consistent with antiphospholipid antibody syndrome (e.g., multiple first-trimester pregnancy loss), testing for anticardiolipin antibody is not indicated.

**B - Measure LDH and haptoglobin** - Intravascular hemolysis causes LDH and hemoglobin to be released into circulation. Free hemoglobin is bound by haptoglobin and excreted in urine, which causes the serum concentration of haptoglobin to decrease. While these tests may provide evidence of intravascular hemolysis, they are nonspecific and not the best for establishing the cause of this patient's microcytic anemia.

**C - Reassurance** - Microcytic anemia in a pregnant woman warrants workup to determine the underlying cause and determine the appropriate treatment for reversing the anemia. Persistent anemia during pregnancy increases stress on the maternal heart, which must continue to provide adequate circulation, and this can lead to fetal hypoxemia. Reassurance would not suffice in this patient.

**D - Amniocentesis** - Amniocentesis is performed between 15–20 weeks' gestation to analyze fetal genetic material in the amniotic fluid. Although microcytic anemia in a mother of African-American descent should raise suspicion of maternal thalassemia, it is not an indication for genetic analysis of the fetus.

**E - Perform direct Coombs test** - Direct Coombs test is used to diagnose autoimmune hemolytic anemia, which is a normocytic anemia with hyperbilirubinemia. Because this patient has microcytic anemia, a direct Coombs test is not indicated.

