### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Cesarean delivery** - Cesarean delivery is indicated for arrested active phase, which is defined as ≥ 6 cm cervical dilation with membrane rupture and no progress in cervical dilation after 4 hours of adequate contractions. If the patient had inadequate contractions, it would only be considered arrested active phase if no cervical change was visible after ≥ 6 hours. In the case of inadequate contractions and if < 6 hours have passed, labor augmentation with, e.g., oxytocin can be attempted first.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Assisted vaginal delivery** - Assisted vaginal delivery refers to the use of either forceps or a vacuum extractor. Both techniques are only considered during the second stage of labor, which is defined by a completely dilated cervix (≥ 10 cm). However, this patient's cervix is only dilated 7 cm, meaning she is still in the first stage of labor. Assisted vaginal delivery cannot be performed during this stage, as the fetal head is not yet visible in the vaginal opening (“crowning”).

**C - Oxytocin infusion** - Labor augmentation with oxytocin infusion can be attempted in prolonged active phase with inadequate contractions. However, this patient has had no cervical dilation in > 4 hours despite adequate contractions, which indicates arrested rather than prolonged active phase. Labor augmentation would have no effect, as her contractions are already adequate.

**D - Amnioinfusion** - Amnioinfusion is used in case of meconium aspiration syndrome or to reduce cord compression. However, fetal monitoring in this patient has not revealed abnormal fetal distress (fetal heart rate is 120/min, with moderate accelerations and no late or variable decelerations), and as such there is no reason to suspect either of the two possible indications for amnioinfusion.

**E - Reassurance and close follow-up** - Reassurance and close follow-up can be considered in case of prolonged latent phase of labor. This patient's cervical dilation of 6 cm indicates that she is in the active phase of labor. Expectant management is not appropriate to treat an arrest of labor in the first stage.

