### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Transabdominal ultrasonography** - In pregnant women with suspected IUGR, transabdominal or transvaginal fetal ultrasonography is indicated for an accurate assessment of pregnancy dating and fetal abnormalities. The diagnosis of IUGR is confirmed by an estimated fetal weight or a fetal abdominal circumference below the 10thpercentile. Chronic hypertension, which this patient has, is a risk factor for IUGR because it can lead to placental insufficiency, with a consequent decrease in blood flow and oxygen delivery to the fetus. Other risk factors for this condition include maternal substance abuse (e.g., alcohol, cocaine), teratogen exposure (e.g., carbamazepine, warfarin), multiple gestations, placenta previa, fetal genetic abnormalities, and intrauterine infections. Management includes treatment of the underlying cause (e.g., blood pressure control in this patient) and outpatient monitoring.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cell-free fetal DNA testing** - Cell-free fetal DNA testing can be used for prenatal assessment of fetal genetic abnormalities, which are commonly associated with IUGR. Although IUGR is suspected in this patient, the diagnosis needs to be confirmed before the evaluation of potential causes.

**C - Glucose challenge test** - A glucose challenge test should be performed in all pregnant women between 24 and 28 weeks' gestation as part of the screening for gestational diabetes mellitus, which is a risk factor for IUGR. Since this patient is at 33 weeks' gestation and has attended all previous prenatal visits, a glucose challenge test has most likely already been performed. A different step is indicated at this time.

**D - Contraction stress test** - A contraction stress test can be used for fetal evaluation in patients with severe or complicated IUGR (e.g., fetal weight < 5thpercentile, oligohydramnios, preeclampsia, decelerating growth velocity, increasing umbilical Doppler index) and a nonreactive nonstress test. Although IUGR is suspected in this patient, the diagnosis needs to be confirmed before a contraction stress test is considered.

**E - Reassurance and follow-up in 2 weeks** - Reassurance and follow-up in 2 weeks would be indicated if this patient's examination showed no abnormalities. However, the discrepancy between fundal height and gestational age suggests IUGR, which requires further evaluation.

**F - Betamethasone therapy and induction of labor** - Betamethasone therapy and induction of labor are indicated in patients at < 34 weeks' gestation if preterm delivery, for which IUGR is a risk factor, is anticipated. Although IUGR is suspected in this patient, the diagnosis needs to be confirmed first. In addition, there are no signs of, or indications for, preterm labor at this time.

