### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Exercise program** - Although diastasis recti may resolve spontaneously postpartum, initiating an exercise program 6–8 weeks after the delivery can help strengthen the abdominal rectus muscles and reduce the abnormal extension of the linea alba. Additional measures, such as weight loss, may be appropriate in patients who develop diastasis recti as a result of obesity. As diastasis recti is not a true hernia (the abdominal fascia is intact), there is no risk of incarceration or strangulation. Surgical repair such as abdominoplasty is considered in patients with severe, recurring, and symptomatic diastasis recti or for cosmetic reasons if conservative treatment fails after 6–12 months.

Image File: 1319-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5c98e0025da37.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Compression garment** - An abdominal compression garment may be used for the treatment of diastasis recti to apply pressure and provide support to the abdominal muscles. Compression garments are also indicated if a seroma develops postoperatively (e.g., following a cesarean delivery). However, there is only limited evidence supporting the use of compression garments in the treatment of diastasis recti. Moreover, this patient has no signs of a seroma, such as swelling and discharge at the incision site.

**B - Laparoscopic hernia repair** - Laparoscopic hernia repair is usually an elective procedure that is indicated in patients with uncomplicated hernias. Following cesarean delivery, the risk of developing an incisional hernia is increased. This patient, however, has a protrusion along the supraumbilical midline, not along the horizontal lower abdominal incision. Since diastasis recti is not a true hernia (the abdominal fascia is intact), there is no risk of incarceration or strangulation and laparoscopic hernia repair is, therefore, not indicated.

**C - Weight loss program** - A weight loss program may be beneficial for patients who develop diastasis recti due to obesity. This patient's diastasis recti, however, is pregnancy-related and she has already returned to her normal prepregnancy weight.

**E - Abdominoplasty** - Abdominoplasty is recommended for patients with severe, recurring, and symptomatic diastasis recti or for cosmetic reasons if conservative treatments fail after 6–12 months. However, spontaneous resolution is common in young and otherwise healthy patients who develop diastasis recti during pregnancy. Moreover, since this patient has not yet received any treatment, a less invasive recommendation is more appropriate at this time.

