### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - "You most likely have the postpartum blues, which are very common after delivery. Let's schedule a follow-up appointment in 10 days."** - This patient most likely has the postpartum blues, which manifest with mild depressive symptoms within one week of delivery. The postpartum blues are seen in up to 85% of women following delivery and typically resolve spontaneously within 2 weeks. Therefore, providing reassurance and making sure a family member can support the mother until the symptoms subside is sufficient. However, since the postpartum blues can sometimes progress to major depressive disorder with peripartum onset (i.e., if at least 5 of the SIGECAPS symptoms are present and persist for more than 2 weeks), it is important to schedule a follow-up meeting approx. 10 days after the diagnosis of postpartum blues in order to reassess the patient's mental state.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - "You most likely have the postpartum blues, which are very common after delivery. It takes some time to adjust to this new responsibilty, but you will feel better soon."** - Tearfulness, anxiety, and insomnia within 1 week of delivery, without other depressive symptoms (e.g., change in appetite, suicidal ideation), indicate the postpartum blues. Although postpartum blues typically resolve spontaneously within 2 weeks, some patients develop postpartum depression. Therefore, another response by the physician is more appropriate at this time.

**C - "You most likely have postpartum depression, which affects almost 1 in 10 women after delivery. I recommend we initiate antidepressant therapy."** - Postpartum depression can manifest within 4 weeks of delivery with symptoms such as tearfulness, insomnia, and anxiety, all of which are seen here. However, the diagnosis of postpartum depression is met when at least 5 of the SIGECAPS symptoms are present, which is not the case in this patient. Furthermore, the diagnosis of postpartum depression requires that symptoms persist for at least 2 weeks, whereas this patient's symptoms only started 5 days ago.

**D - "You most likely have postpartum depression, which affects almost 1 in 10 women after delivery. I recommend we initiate cognitive behavioral therapy."** - Cognitive behavioral therapy is an effective treatment option for postpartum depression, which manifests within 4 weeks of delivery with symptoms such as tearfulness, insomnia, and anxiety, all of which are seen here. However, the diagnosis of postpartum depression is met when at least 5 of the SIGECAPS symptoms are present, which is not the case in this patient. Furthermore, the diagnosis of postpartum depression requires that symptoms persist for at least 2 weeks, whereas this patient's symptoms only started 5 days ago.

**E - "Given your family history, you most likely have postpartum psychosis. I'm afraid we will have to hospitalize you."** - Postpartum psychosis typically develops within 2 weeks of delivery and can manifest with features such as anxiety, insomnia, and tearfulness, all of which are seen here. Furthermore, this patient's family history of bipolar disorder places her at increased risk of postpartum psychosis. However, she lacks other characteristic findings, such as hallucinations, delusions, and paranoia. Moreover, most patients with postpartum psychosis are hospitalized because they have considered harming themselves or their children, which is not the case here.

