### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Hepatitis A vaccination** - The pregnant woman in this vignette has chronic hepatitis C infection. She has been vaccinated against hepatitis B but not against hepatitis A. Individuals who have chronic liver disease such as hepatitis C can develop fulminant hepatitis if infected with hepatitis A. To prevent such complications, it is imperative that this woman receives the hepatitis A vaccine.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Plan to give hepatitis B Ig to the newborn** - Newborns are given hepatitis B immunoglobulins after birth if the mother has an active hepatitis B infection. This woman's serology is positive for the hepatitis B surface antibody and negative for the core and surface antigens, indicating she has been vaccinated against hepatitis B and that she does not have an active infection. Therefore, the newborn will not need hepatitis B immunoglobulins.

**B - Start combination therapy with ledipasvir/sofosbuvir and ribavirin** - Combination therapy with ledipasvir/sofosbuvir and ribavirin is indicated in patients with chronic hepatitis C infection. However, ribavirin has known teratogenic effects and ledipasvir/sofosbuvir combination should only be used if the benefits outweigh the risks. None of these drugs are proven to prevent the vertical transmission of the virus to the fetus.

**C - Start combination therapy with interferon α and ribavirin** - Individuals found to be HCV-positive usually receive combination treatment with ribavirin and interferons such as interferon α. However, ribavirin has known teratogenic effects on the fetus and interferons have shown to cause abortion in animal models. Therefore, combination antiviral therapy is not recommended in this pregnant women infected with HCV.

**D - Test for Zika virus** - The Zika virus is responsible for causing congenital malformations in pregnant women who are affected. There was an epidemic in Brazil in 2015 that was responsible for a large number of newborns with microcephaly. As this woman immigrated from Brazil 13 years ago, it is unlikely that she would have been infected with the virus.

**E - Plan to formula feed the newborn** - Formula as a substitute for breast milk may be indicated if the mother has an active infection such as herpetic lesions on the breast, if she is undergoing chemotherapy, or if the baby has galactosemia. Hepatitis C does not spread via breast milk, so breastfeeding is not contraindicated.

**F - Undergo liver biopsy** - Liver biopsy is used in hepatitis C to stage the disease and identify the amount of fibrosis to guide treatment. However, this woman is at 28 weeks' gestation and is asymptomatic. Performing a liver biopsy has multiple risks and is not recommended during pregnancy. The decision to conduct a liver biopsy can be made after delivery.

**H - Schedule a cesarean delivery** - This woman has chronic hepatitis C. There is a ∼ 4% risk of vertical transmission of the virus. However, C-section has not been shown to prevent or reduce vertical transmission of HCV. C-sections are used to reduce transmission in, e.g., HIV-positive patients (unless viral load is very low) and those with active genital herpes.

**I - Plan to give hepatitis B vaccine and hepatitis B Ig to the newborn** - Newborns are given the hepatitis B vaccine and immunoglobulin if the mother has an active hepatitis B infection. However, the positive hepatitis B surface antibody and the negative core and surface antigens indicate the woman has already been vaccinated against hepatitis B. If she were infected, the hepatitis B surface antigen would be positive. Therefore, her newborn does not need hepatitis B immunoglobulin but will require vaccination against hepatitis B in accordance with the immunization schedule.

