### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Clostridium tetani** - Clostridium tetani produces an exotoxin (tetanospasmin) that inhibits neurotransmission, causing tetanus, a life-threatening condition characterized by muscle spasms, myoclonus, irritability, and poor feeding. The disease is acquired in nonimmunized individuals after spores of the pathogen enter the body through broken skin. In the case of neonates, infection primarily occurs if the umbilical cord is severed or dressed with contaminated materials, which mainly happens in developing countries or home births in an unsterile setting. The vaccine against C. tetani is administered routinely to pregnant women, which allows production of maternal antibodies that can cross the placenta and protect the baby until the child receives the regular tetanus vaccine (at 2 months of age). Infants born to nonimmunized women are especially at high risk of developing this illness.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Clostridium botulinum** - Clostridium botulinum produces a neurotoxin that causes infant botulism, a neuroparalytic syndrome that presents with weakness, poor feeding, and irritability. It is associated with the ingestion of honey products contaminated with C. botulinum. The raw honey that the infant possibly ingested may have been a potential source of the disease, but this infant presents with muscle stiffness instead of hypotony, which is not consistent with botulism.

**C - Neisseria meningitidis** - Neisseria meningitidis is a gram-negative diplococcus that causes bacterial meningitis primarily in older children and adults. It is also a possible cause of neonatal bacterial meningitis, but other microorganisms (such as group B Streptococcus and E. coli) are more common. Neonatal meningitis presents with irritability, poor feeding, fever, and a bulging fontanelles. However, this patient presents with a soft and flat fontanelle and has not had a fever. Generalized muscle stiffness and spasms would also not be expected.

**D - Listeria monocytogenes** - Listeria monocytogenes is a gram-positive bacteria that can cause neonatal meningitis, which typically presents with irritability, poor feeding, fever, and bulging fontanelles. However, this patient presents with a soft and flat fontanelle and has not had a fever. Listeria also does not cause muscle spasms and stiffness, making it an unlikely diagnosis.

**E - Escherichia coli** - Escherichia coli is a gram-negative rod that can cause neonatal meningitis, which typically presents with irritability, poor feeding, fever, and bulging fontanelles. However, this patient presents with a soft and flat fontanelle and has not had a fever. E. coli also does not cause muscle spasms and stiffness, making it an unlikely diagnosis.

