### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Administer oxytocin** - Administration of oxytocin induces uterine contraction and is the most appropriate initial step in the management of PPH due to uterine atony, along with bimanual uterine massage. Oxytocin should be routinely administered to all women in the third stage of labor to reduce the risk of developing PPH. In patients with PPH and suspected uterine atony, the first-line therapy is to administer additional IV oxytocin, followed by other uterotonic agents (e.g., intramuscular methylergonovine, sublingual/intracavitary misoprostol). Tranexamic acid should be given when initial therapies fail to stop the bleeding and bleeding disorders (e.g., disseminated intravascular coagulation, hyperfibrinolysis) should be excluded. Surgical interventions, such as placement of uterine compression sutures or hysterectomy, become necessary if conservative therapy shows no effect within 30 minutes.

Uterine atony is the most common cause of PPH. This patient's history of multiparity, polyhydramnios, and chorioamnionitis are known risk factors for uterine atony.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Transfuse fresh frozen plasma** - Transfusion of fresh frozen plasma, in combination with RBC, may be indicated in patients with suspected coagulation disorders. In patients with ongoing PPH, early transfusion of blood products should be considered. Although there is no consensus on the optimal ratio of blood products in PPH due to uterine atony, most institutions have individual massive transfusion protocols for obstetric patients, which should be implemented. This patient has a soft, enlarged uterus and is showing no signs of coagulopathy (e.g., petechiae), so uterine atony is the most likely cause of hemorrhage, not a coagulation disorder.

**B - Place compression sutures** - Placement of uterine compression sutures is indicated in patients with PPH due to uterine atony that is unresponsive to conservative management. A modified B-Lynch suture can preserve future fertility, thereby eliminating the need for hysterectomy. However, this patient is hemodynamically stable, so other noninvasive interventions should be considered first.

**D - Administer misoprostol** - Administering prostaglandins, such as misoprostol or carboprost, induces smooth muscle contraction in the uterus and may be considered in PPH that is unresponsive to first-line uterotonic drugs or in scenarios where other uterotonic drugs are unavailable or contraindicated (e.g., patients with preexisting hypertension). This patient, however, has not received any uterotonic drug. Another intervention should be considered first.

**E - Perform intrauterine tamponade** - Uterine tamponade with a balloon catheter or intrauterine pack may be indicated in PPH due to uterine atony unresponsive to conservative management. This intervention decreases bleeding and provides time to prepare for other surgical procedures, such as placement of uterine compression sutures. This patient is hemodynamically stable, so other noninvasive interventions should be considered first.

**F - Administer methylergonovine** - Administration of methylergonovine may be considered in PPH due to uterine atony that is unresponsive to first-line uterotonic drugs. Methylergonovine promotes uterine contraction and increases blood pressure, and is thus contraindicated in patients with hypertension or preeclampsia. This woman is hemodynamically stable and has not received any uterotonic drug, making another intervention more appropriate at this time.

