### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Betamethasone** - Maternal antenatal administration of betamethasone most likely would have prevented neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (NRDS) in this patient. Glucocorticoids such as betamethasone and dexamethasone promote fetal lung maturity and increase the production of surfactant via stimulation of type II pneumocyte. Glucocorticoids are typically administered at least 48 hours before delivery in patients at risk of preterm birth, to ensure enough time for effect.

Image File: 1325-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93cccf0f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Epinephrine** - Endogenous epinephrine and other catecholamines are involved in promoting fetal lung maturity in-utero. However, epinephrine administration is not effective for the prevention of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome.

**C - Thyrotropin-releasing hormone** - Endogenous thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) helps increase lung maturity in utero, by increasing T3 and T4 activity and thereby stimulating surfactant release. However, TRH is not used in neonatal respiratory distress syndrome prevention since studies have shown that TRH does not improve outcomes.

**D - Oxytocin** - Oxytocin is administered primarily to induce labor. While it can slightly increase fetal surfactant levels, oxytocin is not regularly used to promote fetal lung maturity and would not have prevented NRDS in this infant.

**E - Insulin** - Physiological concentrations of insulin increase glucose uptake by type II pneumocyte and contribute to lung maturity. However, hyperinsulinemia has the opposite effect and delays lung maturity. Consequently, insulin is not used to prevent neonatal respiratory distress syndrome.

**F - Indomethacin** - Indomethacin is used therapeutically to close the ductus arteriosus in patients born with a patent ductus arteriosus (PDA). Indomethacin is not indicated in the prevention of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome.

