### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Intrauterine hypoxia** - This infant's neonatal polycythemia is most likely due to intrauterine hypoxia. A fetus in a hypoxic state increases erythropoiesis in an effort to increase oxygen delivery to the tissues by increasing the circulating RBCs. At birth, the infant presents with elevated venous hematocrit (> 65%), respiratory distress, cyanosis, apnea, poor feeding, hypoglycemia (due to increased glucose uptake by the circulating RBCs), and plethora (ruddy complexion). Patients may also demonstrate lethargy, irritability, or seizures. Risk factors for developing this condition include maternal tobacco use as seen in this patient, maternal diabetes, and being small or large for gestational age.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Transient tachypnea of the newborn** - Transient tachypnea of the newborn is a common, self-resolving condition that results from excess fluid in the lungs. It classically occurs in full-term neonates born by C-section and resolves within four hours. This patient was not born by C-section, and transient tachypnea of the newborn would be less likely to explain his laboratory abnormalities.

**B - Intraventricular hemorrhage** - While intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) is a potential complication in the newborn, it most commonly occurs in infants with low birth weight (< 1500 grams) or premature infants (< 32 weeks' gestation). While IVH can cause irregular respirations, this patients lacks any other symptoms to suggest IVH, including lethargy, hypotonia, irregular eye movements, seizures, or bulging anterior fontanelle. Also, IVH would not be consistent with this patient's laboratory abnormalities, especially elevated hemoglobin levels.

**C - Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome** - Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (NRDS) is the result of a deficiency in pulmonary surfactant within the immature lungs of a premature infant. NRDS classically presents immediately after birth in premature infants with tachypnea, nasal flaring, intercostal retractions, and/or expiratory grunting. While this patient has developed some symptoms of respiratory distress, this occurred first two hours after delivery. Further, he was not born prematurely and thus, is unlikely to have NRDS.

**D - Hyperinsulinism** - Neonatal hyperinsulinism is a possible complication in infants of diabetic mothers. Exposure to maternal hyperglycemia in utero causes increased production of insulin by the fetal pancreas, resulting in excess insulin production. While hyperinsulinism would cause hypoglycemia in the newborn, this is classically seen in the setting of macrosomia (rather than in small-for-gestational-age infants) and would be less likely to explain this patient's respiratory distress.

**E - Congenital heart disease** - While infants of diabetic mothers may have cardiac abnormalities, this patient has no murmur to suggest a congenital heart disease. Additionally, while cyanotic heart defects may cause symptoms of respiratory distress in the newborn, it would be less likely to explain this patient's laboratory abnormalities.

