### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Fecal incontinence** - Fecal incontinence is a common complication of third-degree perineal lacerations, which extend through the skin, vaginal mucosa, subcutaneous tissues, the external anal sphincter and, in more severe cases, the internal anal sphincter. Disruption of the anal sphincter puts this patient at risk for this complication. Even with adequate repair at the time of delivery, this patient may still have persistent anorectal concerns (e.g., involuntary leakage of flatus or stool).

Operative delivery (i.e., the use of forceps or vacuum assistance) and fetal macrosomia are risk factors for third-degree perineal tears.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Urge incontinence** - Urge incontinence most often results from detrusor muscle hyperactivity. This is a common concern in patients with multiple sclerosis or those with urinary catheters in place. Perineal lacerations, however, are not associated with the development of urge incontinence.

**B - Vesicovaginal fistula** - Formation of a vesicovaginal fistula most commonly occurs after pelvic operations such as hysterectomy, but is not a complication of third-degree perineal lacerations, as seen in this patient. This woman's laceration extended in the 6 o'clock direction (i.e., away from the bladder), making it even less likely to cause a vesicovaginal fistula.

**D - Small bowel obstruction** - Small bowel obstruction is a very rare complication of pregnancy. It is more strongly associated with abdominal surgery and intraabdominal adhesion formation. This woman's perineal laceration would not cause small bowel obstruction.

**E - Stress incontinence** - Stress incontinence is associated with multiple childbirths and pelvic floor weakness, but it is not a complication of perineal tears. Multiple vaginal deliveries are an important risk factor for postpartum urinary incontinence due to excessive tension on the bladder from the gravid uterus, which can lead to urethral hypermobility.

