### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Immediate delivery** - AFLP is a rare obstetric emergency that most commonly occurs in the third trimester. Although initial symptoms are often nonspecific (e.g., diffuse abdominal pain, malaise, nausea, vomiting), AFLP can progress quickly to acute hepatic failure, acute kidney injury, hypoglycemia, hemolysis, and thrombocytopenia, as seen in this patient. Immediate delivery is the only curative treatment and is indicated regardless of the gestational age to prevent complications such as intrauterine fetal demise, maternal DIC, and multiorgan failure. Cesarean delivery should be performed if labor induction and prompt vaginal delivery are not possible.

AFLP has a large clinical overlap with HELLP syndrome and preeclampsia with severe features, as they can manifest with hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count. Features more typical of AFLP include fibrinogen < 300 mg/dL, severe hepatic insufficiency with elevation of liver enzymes 5–10 times the upper limit of normal, hypoglycemia, DIC, low-grade fever, and acute kidney injury. HELLP syndrome and preeclampsia with severe features more commonly manifest with proteinuria and severe arterial hypertension.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Plasma exchange therapy** - Plasma exchange therapy is the first-line treatment for patients with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). TTP manifests with thrombocytopenia, fever, neurologic signs and symptoms (e.g., altered mental status), findings of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (e.g., low hematocrit, jaundice), and impaired renal function (e.g., elevated creatinine), all of which are seen here. However, in contrast to this patient's laboratory findings, elevated transaminase levels and coagulation abnormalities (e.g., prolonged PT and PTT) are not typical features of TTP.

**B - Ursodeoxycholic acid therapy** - Ursodeoxycholic acid is the first-line treatment for intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP), which most commonly affects pregnant women in the third trimester. ICP can manifest with RUQ pain, nausea, vomiting, and scleral jaundice, all of which are seen here. However, ICP is characterized by intense pruritus, usually of the palms and soles, which this patient does not have. Although mild elevation of liver enzymes and mixed hyperbilirubinemia can be seen in ICP, normal alkaline phosphatase levels, hemolysis, thrombocytopenia, and coagulopathy (e.g., prolonged PT, PTT) are not associated with this condition.

**D - Intravenous magnesium sulfate therapy** - Intravenous magnesium sulfate may be indicated as seizure prophylaxis in women with HELLP syndrome or preeclampsia with severe features, both of which can manifest with RUQ pain, nausea/vomiting, and altered mental status. Moreover, HELLP syndrome typically manifests with hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelets, all of which are seen here. However, HELLP syndrome and preeclampsia with severe features are classically associated with arterial hypertension and proteinuria, which this patient does not have.

**E - Liver biopsy** - A liver biopsy may be indicated in patients presenting with features of liver disease (e.g., elevated liver enzymes and bilirubin levels, jaundice), as seen here. However, biopsy during pregnancy, in general, is associated with a high risk of complications for mother and fetus and should be avoided. A biopsy is especially contraindicated in this patient with a high risk of hemorrhage (i.e., prolonged PT and PTT, low thrombocyte count).

