### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - The results are more precise in comparison to individual studies** - Pooling studies results in greater precision, as long as only results of comparable studies are statistically combined. The increased number of observations improves the estimates of the effect size of an intervention or an association (here the association between lymphoma in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and the use of anti-TNF alpha medications).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - It is unable to resolve differences in outcomes between individual studies** - On the contrary, meta-analyses are well-suited to resolving differences in outcomes between individual studies. Higher numbers of observations mean there will be more convergence and generalizability.

**C - It has a lower level of clinical evidence than an individual cohort study** - Meta-analyses have a higher level of clinical evidence than individual cohort studies. A systematic review with meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials is considered to have the highest level of evidence, followed by individual randomized controlled trials and systematic reviews of cohort studies.

**D - It overcomes limitations in the quality of individual studies** - Meta-analysis is only as good as the individual studies used. When choosing studies, special attention must be paid to differences in study design and the quality of results.

**E - There is a decreased likelihood of type I error** - Every study sets a confidence level (most commonly 0.05) that represents the probability of type 1 error that the researcher is willing to tolerate. This is a predetermined parameter of the test and would not be affected by pooling the studies. On the other hand, the greater the statistical power of a study, the less likely it is to have a type II error (i.e., a false negative result).

