### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Terazosin therapy** - Alpha-blockers (e.g., terazosin, tamsulosin, doxazosin) are the first-line pharmacotherapy in most patients with symptomatic BPH and decreased quality of life. Alpha-blockers are smooth muscle relaxants, which decrease the resistance to urinary outflow by causing smooth muscle relaxation of the bladder neck and the urethra, thereby causing a symptomatic improvement in patients with BPH. Alpha-blockers do not reverse prostatic hyperplasia, but they can provide rapid improvement of symptoms.

Orthostatic hypotension (due to vascular smooth muscle relaxation) is a common adverse effect of alpha-blockers. Terazosin and doxazosin are also FDA-approved to treat BPH in patients with concomitant hypertension, like in this patient.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bladder catheterization** - Bladder catheterization (either transurethral or suprapubic) is indicated in acute urinary retention (AUR), a common complication of BPH. Although this patient presents with features of bladder outflow obstruction due to prostatic enlargement (e.g., poor stream, hesitancy), he does not complain of suprapubic or pelvic pain, or a complete inability to pass urine or have a bladder that is palpable on physical examination, all of which are features of AUR.

**B - Transurethral resection of the prostate** - Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) is indicated in patients with persistent symptoms despite pharmacotherapy or in patients who develop complications due to BPH, such as acute urinary retention, recurrent UTIs, or hydronephrosis. As this patient presents with a recent onset of symptoms without any history/evidence of complications, another treatment option is more appropriate at this time.

**C - Prostate biopsy** - Prostate biopsy is indicated when there is a suspicion of prostate cancer, such as an elevation of serum prostate-specific antigen > 4 ng/ml and/or digital rectal examination (DRE) findings of palpable nodules, indurated segments, and asymmetrical enlargement of the prostate gland. Because prostate biopsy is an invasive procedure and can cause serious complications (e.g., hemorrhage, genitourinary infection, acute urinary retention), it is not routinely performed in patients with prostatic complaints unless there is a strong suspicion for prostate cancer. Since this patient had a normal prostate-specific antigen and his rectal examination was unremarkable, prostate biopsy is not indicated.

**D - Prostatectomy** - Prostatectomy is very rarely indicated in patients with BPH due to the availability of effective pharmacotherapy and minimally invasive surgical procedures for patients who require surgery. In patients with very large prostates (estimated weight > 80-100 g) who are good candidates for surgery, prostatectomy can be a surgical option.

**F - Finasteride therapy** - 5-α-reductase inhibitors like finasteride are recommended as first-line treatment in patients with uncomplicated BPH who have a large prostate, as indicated sonographically (prostate volume > 40 mL) or based on a PSA concentration (> 1.5 ng/mL). 5-α-reductase inhibitors prevent the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone, which decreases the size of the prostate, causing symptomatic relief, while reducing the risk of AUR and need for prostatic surgery. However, symptomatic improvement is seen only after at least 6 months of 5-α-reductase inhibitor use. Long-term use can cause sexual dysfunction (decreased libido, impotence, ejaculatory dysfunction) and gynecomastia in some patients.

**G - Cystoscopy** - Cystoscopy is indicated for the evaluation of hematuria, bladder outlet obstruction, and other voiding symptoms (urinary urgency, frequency, etc). Although this patient presents with urinary frequency and symptoms of bladder outflow obstruction (e.g., hesitancy, weak stream, elevated residual bladder volume), digital rectal examination and ultrasound suggest that the cause of this patient's symptoms is an enlarged prostate (BPH). Cystoscopy is not routinely performed in the evaluation of BPH. If this patient presented with gross or microscopic hematuria, recurrent UTIs, or a history of prior transurethral intervention that might suggest he has a urethral stricture, cystoscopy should be performed.

