### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Hypokalemia** - Three weeks after exposure to contrast, this patient is in the polyuric phase of AKI and is at risk for hypokalemia. During this period, patients lose several electrolytes that are normally reabsorbed by the tubules, including potassium, into the urine.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hypermagnesemia** - Three weeks after exposure to contrast, this patient is in the polyuric phase of AKI and is actually at risk for hypomagnesemia, rather than hypermagnesemia. During this period, patients lose several electrolytes that are normally reabsorbed by the tubules, including magnesium, into the urine.

**B - Metabolic alkalosis** - Three weeks after exposure to contrast, this patient is in the polyuric phase of AKI. During this period, patients have difficulty excreting H+ ions and regenerating bicarbonate (a function of the tubular system), putting them at risk for metabolic acidosis, rather than alkalosis.

**C - Hypernatremia** - Three weeks after exposure to contrast, this patient is in the polyuric phase of AKI and is actually at risk for hyponatremia, rather than hypernatremia. During this period, patients lose several electrolytes that are normally reabsorbed by the tubules, including sodium, into the urine.

**E - Hyporeninemia** - Patients in the polyuric phase of AKI are at risk for volume depletion, a state in which GFR and sodium delivery to the distal nephrons decreases, causing the release of renin. Therefore, this patient would actually have an increase in renin release.

