### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Intravenous isotonic saline therapy** - Aggressive intravenous isotonic saline therapy is an important step in the prevention of AKI in patients with rhabdomyolysis. Rhabdomyolysis (and hemolysis) can cause heme pigment nephropathy and acute tubular necrosis due to the accumulation of toxic heme pigment from myoglobin (or hemoglobin). Fluid resuscitation dilutes the concentration of myoglobin (or heme) to limit tubular damage, ensures adequate renal perfusion, which prevents renal ischemia, and increases urine production and output. Additionally, the first step in the management of suspected statin-induced rhabdomyolysis should be the cessation of statin therapy to prevent further rhabdomyolysis.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Renal replacement therapy** - Renal replacement therapy is not used in the prevention of AKI. Rather, it is used to treat complications of AKI (e.g., severe acidemia/pH < 7.2, severe hyperkalemia, volume overload, uremic pericarditis/encephalopathy) in patients who do not respond to optimal medical management, as well as to treat certain drug intoxications (e.g., lithium, toxic alcohols).

**B - Intravenous furosemide therapy** - Intravenous furosemide therapy is not used in the prevention of rhabdomyolysis-induced AKI. Loop diuretics are given as an adjunct to prevent worsening volume overload in patients with AKI and clear evidence of hypervolemia (e.g., pulmonary edema).

**C - Percutaneous nephrolithotomy** - Percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL) is used to prevent AKI in patients with severe hydronephrosis (postrenal AKI). In statin-induced rhabdomyolysis, renal damage is caused by the toxic effect of heme on the renal tubular cells (renal AKI), not by ureteric obstruction.

**E - Intravenous dantrolene therapy** - Intravenous dantrolene therapy is used to prevent rhabdomyolysis and rhabdomyolysis-induced AKI in patients with malignant hyperthermia or neuroleptic malignant syndrome. This patient, however, has statin-induced rhabdomyolysis, for which statin cessation is the most important measure to prevent worsening.

**F - Oral betaine therapy** - Oral betaine therapy can be used to acidify urine to prevent postrenal AKI secondary to calcium phosphate or struvite stones (which tend to form in alkaline urine). Oral betaine therapy would, however, likely worsen rhabdomyolysis-induced AKI because acidification of the urine exacerbates the breakdown of myoglobin into its nephrotoxic metabolites. Urine alkalinization with bicarbonate therapy may be considered in select patients with rhabdomyolysis (e.g., pH < 7.5, serum bicarbonate < 30 mEq/L, absence of hypocalcemia); however, its use in rhabdomyolysis is controversial.

