### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Ascending bacteria from the bladder** - Ascending bacteria from the bladder, typically due to underlying cystitis, is the most likely cause of this patient's pyelonephritis. Other risk factors include pregnancy, urinary tract obstruction (e.g., catheter, BPH, VUR), and recurrent urinary tract infections.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ascending bacteria from the endocervix** - Ascending bacteria from the endocervix can lead to pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). Although PID could explain this patient's fever, nausea, and weakness, the condition is not associated with costovertebral angle tenderness. In addition, PID would cause abdominopelvic pain, cervical motion tenderness, and possibly abnormal vaginal discharge.

**B - Noninfectious inflammation of the bladder** - Noninfectious inflammation of the bladder, causing chronic interstitial cystitis, presents as a chronic pain syndrome with symptoms of urgency, increased frequency, suprapubic pain, and dyspareunia. This patient has none of these clinical features. Additionally, interstitial cystitis could not explain this patient's nausea and weakness, fever, and distinct right costovertebral angle tenderness.

**D - Decreased urinary pH** - A decreased urinary pH (e.g., due to a metabolic syndrome or medication) promotes the formation of radiolucent uric acid stones. Although the patient's nausea, weakness, and right costovertebral angle tenderness can present with kidney stones, the absence of colicky flank pain that often radiates into the groin area makes this diagnosis unlikely.

**E - Decreased renal calcium reabsorption** - Since ∼ ⅔ of calcium is reabsorbed in the proximal tubule, a decrease in renal calcium reabsorption can cause radioopaque calcium urinary stones to form. Renal stones would be most common in individuals with excessive supplemental calcium intake or taking certain medications, such as loop diuretics or topiramate. Although the patient's nausea, weakness, and right costovertebral angle tenderness can present with kidney stones, the absence of colicky flank pain that often radiates into the groin area makes this diagnosis unlikely.

