### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Renal artery stenosis** - Hypertension that is difficult to control, hypokalemia, and a significant increase in creatinine after adding an ACE inhibitor are suggestive of renal artery stenosis. Decreased renal perfusion in renal artery stenosis activates the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, which causes efferent arteriole constriction and increased sodium and water retention. This autoregulatory process maintains glomerular capillary hydrostatic pressure and GFR, but the increased elimination of potassium (caused by aldosterone) would result in hypokalemia, while systemic vasoconstriction caused by angiotensin II and Na+/H2O retention would result in hypertension. The administration of ACE inhibitors (e.g., lisinopril) to patients with renal artery stenosis inhibits the autoregulatory mechanism, resulting in a decrease in GFR and an increase in creatinine, as seen here. The use of a diuretic (hydrochlorothiazide) in this patient also contributes to a decrease in glomerular filtration pressure and GFR.

Image File: 1336-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d665f2706d4c.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Obstructive sleep apnea** - Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common cause of resistant hypertension, headaches, and fatigue, especially in patients who are obese. However, this patient has no history of sleep disturbances or snoring, suggestive of OSA.

**B - Hyperthyroidism** - Although this patient's family history puts her at a higher risk of developing hyperthyroidism, a rare cause of hypertension, she has no associated clinical features (e.g., heat intolerance, weight loss, anxiety, sleeplessness, sinus tachycardia) and the TSH level is normal.

**C - Primary hyperaldosteronism** - Primary hyperaldosteronism is a cause of 10–20% of cases of secondary hypertension. Although this patient has a low potassium level which suggests hyperaldosteronism, a sudden increase in creatinine following the administration of an ACE inhibitor indicates that her high blood pressure is likely the result of a secondary cause of hyperaldosteronism.

**D - Diabetic kidney disease** - Diabetic nephropathy can result in an increase in creatinine and hypertension that is difficult to control. Although this patient has both uncontrolled hypertension and diabetes, her laboratory tests (including renal function) were normal prior to the addition of an ACE inhibitor. The increase in creatinine in patients with diabetic nephropathy usually takes place over years and not over the course of two weeks. The sudden worsening of creatinine after the addition of lisinopril suggests a different underlying cause.

**E - Cushing syndrome** - Cushing syndrome can cause hypertension, obesity, hyperglycemia, and hyperlipidemia as seen in this patient. However, she does not have risk factors suggestive of Cushing syndrome, such as exogenous steroid use. The sudden worsening of creatinine after the addition of lisinopril suggests a different underlying cause.

**F - Polycystic kidney disease** - Although polycystic kidney disease can cause hypertension, this patient has no other findings (e.g., microscopic hematuria, flank pain) that support this diagnosis.

