### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Treat on an outpatient basis with ciprofloxacin** - Patients with uncomplicated pyelonephritis should be treated on an outpatient basis with a fluoroquinolone such as ciprofloxacin for a period of 7 days. Initiating therapy with a single dose of intravenous ciprofloxacin, ceftriaxone, or gentamicin can be helpful in accelerating recovery before transition to oral therapy. The patient should be encouraged to drink adequate amounts of fluids. The patient should be reviewed after 24–48 hours. If clinical improvement has not occurred, imaging of the urinary tract (typically a CT scan) should be performed, and antibiotic therapy should be tailored to meet the culture and sensitivity results.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Treat on an outpatient basis with nitrofurantoin** - Nitrofurantoin can be used for the empirical treatment of uncomplicated cystitis without pyelonephritis. This patient, however, has pyelonephritis. An antibiotic that is used to treat pyelonephritis should achieve adequate tissue concentration in addition to being eliminated in urine. Nitrofurantoin is rapidly excreted in urine and does not achieve adequate tissue concentration.

**B - Treat on an outpatient basis with doxycycline** - Doxycycline is effective against E. coli, which accounts for 80% of UTIs. However, it is only partially effective against Klebsiella and it is ineffective against Proteus, Enterococci, or Pseudomonas. Since these organisms are responsible for the UTI in about 10% of cases, an antibiotic that is effective against all these species is preferred for empirical therapy of urinary tract infections. Moreover, an antibiotic that is used to treat pyelonephritis should achieve adequate urinary concentration in addition to adequate tissue concentration. Doxycycline does not achieve an adequate therapeutic concentration in urine because it is eliminated via the gastrointestinal tract.

**C - Admit the patient and perform an CT scan of the abdomen** - Imaging at the time of clinical presentation would only be indicated in patients with complicated UTI (e.g., UTI in children, male patients, and patients with a history of nephrolithiasis/urolithiasis). In a patient with uncomplicated UTI, imaging is indicated only if clinical improvement does not occur after 3 days.

**E - Admit the patient and treat with intravenous levofloxacin** - Oral levofloxacin can be used to treat uncomplicated pyelonephritis, but in-patient therapy with intravenous antibiotics therapy is only necessary in cases of complicated UTI (e.g., UTI in children, male patients, diabetics, and patients with a history of nephrolithiasis/urolithiasis).

**F - Wait for culture results and treat accordingly** - Patients with pyelonephritis should be treated empirically while the culture and sensitivity report is pending because untreated pyelonephritis can result in perinephric abscess formation, bacteremia, and/or urinary tract obstruction (due to papillary necrosis).

