### ** Correct Answer: **

**I - Mood stabilizer intake** - Nephrogenic DI is the most common complication of long-term use of lithium, the first-line mood stabilizer for patients with bipolar disorder, as is the case here. Lithium is believed to cause nephrogenic DI by interfering with ADH signaling in the collecting duct cells, which results in reduced expression of water channel aquaporin-2 (AQP2) in these cells and subsequently an elevated ADH in an attempt to compensate.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hypothalamic injury** - Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) is synthesized in the hypothalamus and then transported to the posterior pituitary gland for secretion. Hypothalamic injury can result in central DI with low ADH levels. However, this patient's elevated ADH levels suggests nephrogenic DI.

**B - Neuroleptic malignant syndrome** - Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a rare but serious complication of antipsychotic drugs. NMS usually presents with fever, encephalopathy, unstable vitals, elevated enzymes (most commonly elevated creatinine kinase), and muscle rigidity. However, NMS is not a known cause of nephrogenic DI. Furthermore, this patient's lack of the typical presentation of NMS and her relatively chronic presentation (over a month) makes this choice unlikely.

**C - Paraneoplastic syndrome** - Paraneoplastic syndrome has a wide array of clinical manifestations. Elevated ADH levels due to exogenous secretion in patients with paraneoplastic syndrome results in syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion (SIADH) which, unlike the condition in this patient, manifests as excessive free water retention, euvolemic hyponatremia, and high urine osmolality. The elevated ADH levels in this patient are, therefore, more likely due to another cause.

**D - Pituitary neoplasm** - Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) is synthesized in the hypothalamus and then transported to the posterior pituitary gland for secretion. Pituitary tumors and subsequent hypothalamic injury can result in central DI with low ADH levels. However, this patient's elevated ADH levels suggests nephrogenic DI.

**E - Hyperthyroidism** - Hyperthyroidism usually presents with fatigue, hand tremor, heat intolerance, increased perspiration, palpitations, diarrhea, and significant weight loss despite an increased appetite. Although this patient has hand tremor, she does not have the other typical findings in hyperthyroidism. Furthermore, hyperthyroidism would not explain her elevated ADH levels, hypernatremia, polyuria, and polydipsia.

Image File: 1342-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_61276bd9bc2d7.jpg

**F - Psychogenic polydipsia** - Individuals with psychogenic polydipsia (PP) present with polyuria, polydipsia, and low urine osmolality levels, as seen also in this patient. However, PP causes suppressed release of ADH, low serum Na+, and low serum osmolality levels due to the dilutional effect of excessive water intake. Furthermore, patients with PP do not have dehydration like this patient.

**G - Primary hyperaldosteronism** - Primary hyperaldosteronism can be asymptomatic or present with symptoms of hypokalemia such as headache, muscle weakness, and polyuria. Secondary hypertension, low or normal serum K+ levels, and metabolic alkalosis may also be seen. In nephrogenic DI, the volume contraction resulting from excessive water loss results in increased activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS), causing secondary hyperaldosteronism.

**H - History of urinary tract infections** - A history of urinary tract infections is a risk factor for developing sensory irritative incontinence. However, this patient does not have incontinence, making this answer unlikely.

