### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease** - ADPKD commonly presents in young adulthood with renal insufficiency, self-limited hematuria, and hypertension; abdomen, flank, or back pain is often the first clinical indication. The condition is the most common inherited kidney disorder and is caused by mutations in PKD1 and PKD2. Cysts appear as multiple parenchymal anechoic masses on ultrasound; coupled with an appropriate family history and physical exam, ultrasound is adequate to establish the diagnosis in most cases.

Image File: 1343-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_50e04cfe3a2cf.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Medullary sponge kidney** - Medullary sponge kidney is a congenital disorder characterized by cystic dilatation of the collecting tubules. It can manifest bilaterally and is most often diagnosed incidentally in patients aged 30–50 years who are experiencing nephrolithiasis or recurrent urinary tract infections. Ultrasonography typically demonstrates heavily calcified dilations but not multiple anechoic masses, as are present in this patient.

**B - Simple renal cysts** - Simple renal cysts are common and usually incidental findings. They almost never produce symptoms and would not be the etiology behind this patient's renal insufficiency, recurrent urinary tract infections, and bilateral flank masses.

**D - Autosomal dominant tubulointerstitial kidney disease** - ADTKD is a very uncommon autosomal dominant genetic disorder. The most frequent presentation is an adolescent with gout, elevated serum creatinine, and a strong family history of kidney disease. The renal ultrasound would be relatively normal early in the course of disease but will eventually demonstrate medullary cysts. This patient has no history of gout, presents as an adult, and does not have a strong family history of kidney disease. Furthermore, the ultrasound results show parenchymal, not medullary, changes.

**E - Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease** - ARPKD presents in infancy with progressive renal failure that leads to early end-stage renal disease (often by the teenage years) and a reduced lifespan. This patient is much older and has not developed end-stage renal disease, making the diagnosis much less likely.

**F - Obstructive cystic dysplasia** - Obstructive cystic dysplasia arises from renal dysplasia and cystic dilatation secondary to obstruction of the fetal urinary tract (e.g., ureteral stenosis, posterior urethral valves). Earlier and longer obstruction results in more severe disease. The vast majority of cases are identified in utero or early in childhood, meaning this adult patient is much more likely to be suffering from a different condition.

**G - Multicystic dysplastic kidneys** - Multicystic dysplastic kidney would most likely be identified either in utero (via ultrasound examination) or in childhood (as an abdominal mass or due to recurrent urinary tract infections). The patient described here is much older and has bilateral involvement, the latter being incompatible with life in cases of multicystic dysplasia.

