### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Acute tubular necrosis** - Acute tubular necrosis is the most common cause of intrinsic acute kidney injury (accounting for 85% of cases). Prolonged hypotension in association with trauma and surgery significantly increases the risk of renal ischemia, which results in damage to and necrosis of the tubules. Subsequently, patients present with signs of acute renal injury (anuria, elevated BUN and creatinine), as seen in this patient. Renal epithelial cells and muddy brown granular casts that slough off in the tubular lumen are detected on urine microscopy.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis** - Rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis manifests with signs of acute renal injury (anuria, elevated BUN and creatinine), which are seen in this patient, but also nephritic syndrome and findings of the underlying condition (e.g., pulmonary symptoms in Goodpasture syndrome). Furthermore, instead of brown granular casts in the urine, urine analysis would show nephritic sediment.

**C - Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis** - Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) is a common cause of nephrotic syndrome. Patients present with heavy proteinuria, pitting edema, hypertension, weight gain, hypoalbuminemia, and hyperlipidemia, which is not consistent with this patient's presentation. Furthermore, this patient does not have any risk factors for FSGS (e.g., heroin abuse, obesity, sickle cell disease, or HIV infection).

**D - Allergic interstitial nephritis** - Allergic interstitial nephritis is typically caused by a hypersensitivity reaction to drugs, especially NSAIDs, antibiotics, PPIs, and diuretics. It manifests days or weeks after starting treatment with the offending drug, with gross hematuria, flank pain, rash, and eosinophiluria. This patient's clinical features are not consistent with this diagnosis.

**E - Myorenal syndrome** - Myorenal syndrome resulting in acute kidney injury is a common complication of rhabdomyolysis and crush syndrome. While it is an important differential diagnosis to consider in trauma patients, it typically manifests with diffuse muscle tenderness, highly elevated CK, and elevated LDH as well as darkened urine in the absence of RBCs on urine analysis, none of which is seen in this patient.

**F - Acute renal infarction** - Acute renal infarction (ARI) is a rare complication of reactive thrombocytosis following splenectomy. The risk for thromboembolism is highest in patients with severe thrombocytosis (> 1,000,000 /mm3), while this patient's platelet count is within normal range. ARI typically manifests within the first weeks to months following splenectomy, and the symptoms depend on the extent of arterial occlusion, ranging from asymptomatic ischemia to acute flank pain, fever, hematuria, and proteinuria. This patient presents with acute kidney injury following a period of hypotension in association with trauma and surgery, making another diagnosis more likely.

