### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Perform bedside bladder scan** - Postoperative acute kidney injury (AKI) is a serious complication with a high incidence of morbidity and mortality; monitoring urine output postoperatively is therefore crucial. AKI may be prerenal (due to dehydration or volume loss), renal (acute tubular necrosis), or postrenal (urinary retention). Postrenal AKI can be easily ruled out through bedside ultrasonography (bladder scan) and has been found to be a safer, faster, cheaper, and more comfortable alternative to urinary catheterization for diagnosing urinary retention. If urinary retention is diagnosed (i.e., volume > ∼ 400–600 mL), urinary catheterization should be conducted.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform urinary catheterization** - Urinary catheterization is indicated in patients with postrenal acute kidney injury (AKI) due to urinary retention. However, especially in cases in which the bladder is not distended (such as in this patient), a noninvasive investigation can be used to quickly rule out urinary retention. As a potentially unnecessary invasive procedure that puts the patient at risk of urinary tract injury and infection, urinary catheterization is not the most appropriate next step in management.

**B - Obtain renal scintigraphy** - Renal scintigraphy is used to assess kidney anatomy and function. It is indicated in pediatric patients to detect renal scarring associated with vesicoureteral reflux, and it can also be used to identify transplant-related complications. This patient's postoperative anuria warrants another type of investigation, however.

**C - Obtain urinalysis** - Urinalysis is indicated in patients with suspected acute kidney injury (AKI), as it can detect the presence of RBCs, WBCs, or casts in urine that may be due to renal causes of AKI. However, this patient has not voided since his surgery. It would be more appropriate to rule out postrenal retention first.

**D - Measure serum creatinine concentration** - Serum creatinine concentration provides insight into renal function and can be used to help identify acute kidney injury (AKI) and its cause (either prerenal, intrinsic, or postrenal) in combination with a BUN:creatinine ratio. This patient's anuria is indicative of postoperative AKI, but measuring serum creatinine concentration would be indicated after ruling out urinary retention as a possible cause.

**F - Obtain renal biopsy** - Renal biopsy is indicated in patients with suspected rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (RPGN). While RPGN can cause anuria, it is often accompanied by abdominal pain, pulmonary manifestations, and preceded by flu-like symptoms (fever, malaise, arthralgia, weight loss).

**G - Administer furosemide** - Furosemide administration (furosemide stress test) can be used in early acute kidney injury (AKI) to determine the prognosis. Urine output after furosemide administration can predict the severity of AKI and whether renal replacement therapy is necessary. However, another type of investigation should be conducted first.

