### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Perform hemodialysis** - Dialysis is the definitive treatment of hyperkalemia in patients with renal failure. Patients with hyperkalemia require close monitoring (repeat serum potassium levels, ECGs) until the K+ concentration has been corrected. In the setting of surgery, electrolyte disturbances can cause serious perioperative complications. Hyperkalemia in particular can cause life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias. Perioperative acidemia can worsen chronic acidosis of CKD, thereby worsening hyperkalemia and increasing the risk of cardiac arrhythmias further. Pitting edema indicates fluid overload, which increases the risk of pulmonary edema. Dialysis reduces the risk of perioperative complications associated with electrolyte imbalances and fluid overload.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Restrict salt and potassium intake** - A renal diet involving salt and potassium intake restriction and avoidance of nephrotoxic substances, is recommended for all patients with chronic kidney disease. Although a renal diet is a necessary measure for the long-term management of this patient's kidney disease, it would unfold no effect on this patient's condition within the course of a day.

**C - Administer sodium bicarbonate** - IV administration of sodium bicarbonate counteracts acidosis and causes a redistribution of extracellular potassium into the cells. It can be used to treat hyperkalemia, especially if K+ levels are > 6.5 mEq/L or cardiotoxicity (e.g., tall T waves on ECG) is present, as seen in this patient. However, it is not the first choice treatment in patients with renal failure.

**D - Administer insulin and glucose** - Insulin and glucose infusion is an effective way to manage severe hyperkalemia. Insulin causes a redistribution of extracellular potassium into the cells, while glucose helps prevent hypoglycemia. However, it is not the definitive treatment in patients with renal failure.

**E - Packed red blood cell transfusion** - Packed RBC transfusions are generally indicated if a hospitalized patient's Hb value is < 7–8 g/dL. This patient's Hb value indicates that he has anemia, which requires further investigation. However, his Hb level is 9 g/dL and, since chronic anemia is generally asymptomatic, a transfusion is not required. This patient has hyperkalemia with typical ECG changes that requires immediate attention.

