### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Magnesium** - This patient has signs of clinically significant hypokalemia that is refractory to therapy. Low serum magnesium interferes with potassium repletion and should be considered in those with hypokalemia, especially in a patient who is at risk for multiple electrolyte abnormalities because of ongoing gastrointestinal losses (i.e., diarrhea) and a history of heavy drinking, as seen in this patient.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Aldosterone** - Aldosterone increases potassium secretion in the distal convoluted tubule and collecting duct. Therefore, low serum aldosterone would lead to hyperkalemia, not the hypokalemia seen in this patient. In addition, hypoaldosteronism would manifest with metabolic alkalosis, which this patient does not have.

**C - 1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D** - Vitamin D deficiency (low serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D) is an uncommon cause of proximal renal tubular acidosis (RTA), which can cause hypokalemia. While a patient with RTA might present with weakness, pain, and nausea, laboratory findings would include a non-anion gap metabolic acidosis, which this patient does not have. Low serum vitamin D would not make the patient's hypokalemia refractory to treatment.

**D - Bicarbonate** - Bicarbonate losses due to a 1-week history of diarrhea could result in low serum bicarbonate, and serum bicarbonate levels can affect potassium shifts into and out of cells. However, a low serum bicarbonate level (metabolic acidosis) is associated with a potassium shift out of cells (H+ ions move into cells in exchange for potassium), which causes an increase, not a decrease, in extracellular potassium. In contrast, metabolic alkalosis can cause hypokalemia because potassium shifts into cells in exchange for H+ ions.

**E - Insulin** - Insulin shifts potassium into cells, so low serum insulin would cause hyperkalemia, not the hypokalemia seen in this patient.

**F - Albumin** - This patient is at risk for low serum albumin, a surrogate marker of malnutrition and hepatic synthetic function, due to his history of heavy drinking. Hypoalbuminemia can cause pseudohypocalcemia (due to a decrease in total serum calcium concentration but normal ionized calcium concentrations). However, low serum albumin would not cause hypokalemia that is refractory to repletion.

