### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Muddy brown casts** - Muddy brown casts (also known as granular casts) are a characteristic finding in ATN, which is the most common cause of intrinsic acute kidney injury. This patient has multiple risk factors for ATN (e.g., advanced age, history of sepsis, diabetes mellitus, and treatment with an ACE inhibitor) and her clinical findings (FENa > 2%, elevated creatinine and BUN, hyperkalemia) are consistent with this diagnosis. In this case, ATN is most likely due to gentamicin, which is a nephrotoxic aminoglycoside antibiotic.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - WBC casts** - WBC casts in urinary sediment are strongly associated with pyelonephritis and acute interstitial nephritis (AIN). This patient is afebrile and has no history that might indicate serious urinary tract infection, making pyelonephritis very unlikely. AIN is most commonly associated with a hypersensitivity reaction to drugs, including cephalosporins, which this patient was recently taking. However, AIN would classically present with flank pain, fever, and rash, as well as hematuria, sterile pyuria, and eosinophilia, which this patient does not have.

**B - Pigmented casts** - Pigmented casts are a characteristic finding of acute kidney injury due to rhabdomyolysis or hemolysis. They are formed when heme pigment combines with Tamm-Horsfall protein. There are no indications that this patient suffered a traumatic or nontraumatic injury resulting in breakdown of skeletal muscle tissue, nor does she have signs indicative of hemolysis.

**C - Fatty casts** - Fatty casts on urine microscopy are a characteristic finding in nephrotic syndrome. This manifests in massive proteinuria (> 3.5 g/24 h), edema, and compensatory hyperlipidemia. which is not consistent with this patient's findings.

**E - RBC casts** - RBC casts in urinary sediment indicate glomerulonephritis (GN) and are caused by the congregation of proteins and RBCs inside the tubules. GN results in red or cola-colored urine, proteinuria (< 3.5 g/24 h), and edema, which is not consistent with this patient's findings.

**F - Hyaline casts** - Hyaline casts are the most commonly observed casts in urine sediment analysis. Their presence is nonspecific. They are commonly seen in healthy individuals who have recently exercised vigorously or been dehydrated. This patient presents with signs of acute kidney injury, making a different type of cast more likely.

**G - Waxy casts** - Waxy casts are nonspecific findings that are most commonly found in chronic kidney disease because they can best form in low urine flow states. Waxy casts are observed only in longstanding nephrotic range proteinuria. This patient is very unlikely to have chronic nephrotic syndrome because she does not present with proteinuria and edema, and her symptoms of renal involvement began only 1 day ago.

