### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Tearing of the posterior urethra** - Tearing of the posterior urethra causes inability to void despite urge, suprapubic pain, blood at the urethral meatus, scrotal and perineal ecchymoses, and a high-riding prostate, all of which are present in this patient. The membranous portion of the posterior urethra is most susceptible to injury from high-risk pelvic fractures. Therefore, this patient's history of trauma and x-ray findings (fractures of all four pubic rami) are consistent with a torn posterior urethra. This patient should undergo a retrograde cystourethrogram to confirm urethral injury. Generally, placement of a Foley catheter should be avoided prior to performing urethrogram, as it may worsen the injury.

Image File: 1356-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_613779b63ee66.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Tearing of the anterior urethra** - Tearing of the anterior urethra may cause inability to void, blood at the meatus, scrotal and perineal ecchymoses, and perineal tenderness. However, it would not explain this patient's high-riding prostate on physical examination. Furthermore, anterior urethral injuries are more commonly due to straddle injuries, iatrogenic causes (e.g., traumatic catheterization, endoscopy), or penile fractures, but are not associated with pelvic fractures.

Image File: 1356-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_61377a31852b2.jpg

**B - Blunt trauma to the prostate** - Blunt trauma to the prostate is an unlikely cause of this patient's presentation. High-risk injuries of the pelvis (fractures of all four pubic rami) can lead to tearing of the urethra from the bottom portion of the prostate and could cause inability to void, blood at the meatus, scrotal and perineal ecchymoses, and high-riding prostate on physical examination. However, blunt trauma to the prostate gland itself is not associated with these findings.

**C - Rupture of the corpus cavernosum** - Rupture of the tunica albuginea of the corpus cavernosum is the cause of penile fracture, caused by traumatic bending to an erect penis. Penile fracture may cause penile hematoma or blood at the meatus in the case of concomitant urethral injury. However, penile fracture would not explain this patient's inability to void, scrotal and perineal ecchymoses, or high-riding prostate on physical examination. Also, this type of injury most commonly occurs during sexual intercourse.

**D - Rupture of the bladder** - Rupture of the bladder is a complication of high-risk pelvic fractures and may cause urinary retention and suprapubic pain. However, bladder rupture would not explain this patient's blood at the meatus and high-riding prostate on physical examination because of a lack of urethral involvement. Furthermore, patients typically present with gross hematuria, and ultrasound would not show a distended bladder.

**F - Tearing of the ureter** - Tearing of the ureter is a rare complication of pelvic fracture that can cause flank pain, a palpable flank mass (urine and blood), hematuria, and fever, none of which are present in this patient. Ureteral injury would not explain his scrotal and perineal ecchymoses, blood at the meatus, or high-riding prostate on physical examination, which indicates injury to another location of the genitourinary tract.

