### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Thickened capillary loops** - Thickened capillary loops under light microscopy are the classic finding in membranous nephropathy. They appear secondary to subepithelial deposits along the glomerular basement membrane (“spike and dome appearance”), which can be seen under electron microscopy. The deposits result from immune complex accumulation, which can arise in association with SLE, as seen in this patient. Treatment consists of corticosteroids and supportive management of nephrotic syndrome.

Image File: 1357-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f106a76d0027.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Diffuse glomerulosclerosis** - Diffuse glomerulosclerosis, which is visible under light microscopy, occurs in late stages of diabetic nephropathy following a period of mesangial expansion and glomerular basement membrane thickening due to chronic hyperglycemia, hyperlipidemia, elevated levels of growth hormones, and intraglomerular hypertension. Although later stages of the disease manifest with nephrotic syndrome, which is seen in this patient, she has no history of diabetes mellitus, has normal serum glucose, and does not have glucosuria, making the diagnosis unlikely.

**C - Segmental sclerosis** - Segmental sclerosis on light microscopy is seen in focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS). FSGS is the most common cause of nephrotic syndrome in African Americans and is also associated with HIV, obesity, and sickle cell disease. While this patient's presentation is consistent with FSGS, she has no risk factors for this condition. A white patient with SLE is more likely to have membranous nephropathy, which is not associated with segmental sclerosis.

**D - Crescent formation** - Crescent formation in the glomeruli, which can be seen on light microscopy, is characteristic of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (RPGN). Breaks in the glomerular capillary wall (due to any kind of severe injury) lead to an accumulation of plasma products (e.g., fibrinogen) within the Bowman's capsule and result in fibrin formation that causes the crescent appearance. RPGN manifests with gross hematuria, elevated inflammatory markers (e.g., leukocytosis), and nephritic sediment on urinalysis. Renal insufficiency is usually pronounced at diagnosis, with a marked increase in creatinine (often > 3 mg/dL), decreased urine output, hypertension, and edema.

**E - Apple-green birefringence** - Apple-green birefringence is seen on Congo-red-stained preparations in amyloidosis. Reactive amyloidosis most commonly involves the kidneys, causing nephrotic syndrome, but, since it is a systemic condition, involvement of the liver, spleen, and gastrointestinal tract would also be expected. More importantly, it is associated with longstanding inflammatory conditions (primarily rheumatoid arthritis and chronic inflammatory bowel disease). Although it can also occur in patients with SLE, which this patient likely has, amyloidosis secondary to SLE is rare and unlikely in this patient, considering her short history of SLE.

**F - Splitting of basement membrane** - Splitting of the GBM ('tram track' appearance) on electron microscopy is seen in membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. Although this condition is associated with systemic lupus erythematosus, which this patient likely has, active disease usually manifests with microscopic hematuria, with a varying degree of proteinuria and elevated creatinine. This is not consistent with this patient's findings.

**G - Hypercellular glomeruli** - Hypercellular glomeruli on light microscopy are typically seen in nephritic syndromes such as poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis (PSGN). Inflammation of the glomerulus from nephritogenic strains of group A Streptococcus pyogenes causes leukocytic and neutrophilic infiltration as well as proliferation of endothelial and mesangial cells. PSGN typically manifests with tea-colored urine, periorbital edema, and hypertension following streptococcal tonsillopharyngitis or skin infections (e.g., impetigo) in children between the ages of 3–12 years and adults above the age of 60 years. Both this patient's age and her presentation (with nephrotic-range proteinuria without coexisting hematuria in the setting of SLE) make another biopsy finding more likely.

