### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Potassium citrate** - Although most kidney stones are visible on x-ray, uric acid stones are radiolucent. They can be visualized on ultrasound or CT scan. Uric acid stones are usually soluble in alkaline urine. Thus, this patient should be treated with potassium citrate for urine alkalinization to help dissolve current stones and prevent the formation of new ones. Alternatively, sodium bicarbonate or sodium citrate can be used to alkalinize the urine. He should also be advised to decrease his daily alcohol intake.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Probenecid** - Probenecid is a uricosuric agent often used in combination with allopurinol for treatment of patients with chronic gout. Uricosuric agents are known to cause uric acid kidney stones, so probenecid would be contraindicated in this patient.

**B - Vitamin C** - Vitamin C can increase urinary excretion of oxalate and therefore should be avoided in patients with calcium oxalate stones. This patient's kidney stones are likely made of uric acid, so reducing vitamin C consumption would be unlikely to have significant benefits.

**D - High-protein diet** - High-protein diets are strongly associated with the formation of both uric acid and calcium oxalate stones, secondary to urine acidification and increased urinary excretion of oxalate, respectively. Therefore, a low-protein, rather than high-protein diet, would be recommended for this patient.

**E - Ciprofloxacin** - Ciprofloxacin is an antibiotic used in the treatment of infections by urease-producing bacteria such as Proteus mirabilis, Klebsiella, and Ureaplasma urealyticum. Although these bacteria are known to cause kidney stones (specifically, struvite stones), this patient has no bacteria or WBC on urinalysis and lacks symptoms suggestive of a urinary tract infection. Ciprofloxacin is therefore unlikely to be beneficial in this case. In addition, struvite stones are weakly radiopaque and appear as rectangular prisms on urinalysis.

**F - Hydrochlorothiazide** - Hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) can be used for prevention of calcium-containing kidney stones in patients with hypercalciuria, as it decreases calcium excretion in the urine. Calcium-containing stones are radiopaque and appear as either wedge-shaped prisms (calcium phosphate stones) or bipyramidal envelopes/biconcave dumbbells (calcium oxalate stones) on urinalysis. HCTZ is not indicated for patients with uric acid stones. Thiazide and loop diuretics are associated with hyperuricemia and would therefore increase the risk of uric acid stone formation.

**G - Cranberry juice** - Cranberry juice can help to acidify the urine, and so can be used for prevention of calcium phosphate stones and struvite stones, as they are both associated with a high urine pH. Both types of stones are radiopaque. This patient's stones are likely made of uric acid, which is associated with a low urine pH, so urine acidification with cranberry juice would be counteractive in the treatment and prevention for this case.

