### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Underactivity of detrusor muscle** - Underactivity of the detrusor muscle is one of the causes of overflow incontinence. Patients with an acute spinal cord injury (SCI), as seen here, can have spinal shock, which is a combination of decreased sensation, flaccid paralysis, and autonomic dysfunction below the level of an SCI. Autonomic dysfunction results in parasympathetic inactivation and a consequent atonic bladder. Patients with SCI become unaware of bladder filling and do not feel an urge to void, resulting in an overfilled and overdistended bladder that is palpable in the suprapubic region, as seen in this patient. When intravesical pressure rises above bladder outlet resistance, involuntary dribbling of urine occurs. SCI at or below the sacral micturition center can also cause overflow incontinence due to damage to the lower motor neurons that form part of the micturition reflex arc. Urinary retention in patients with an atonic bladder is best managed by clean intermittent catheterization.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Urethral hypermobility** - Urethral hypermobility can cause stress incontinence, especially in women. Urethral hypermobility can occur in patients with pelvic fractures and/or following pelvic surgery, similar to this patient, due to damage to the pelvic floor muscles. However, stress incontinence is characterized by urinary leakage during activities that increase intra-abdominal pressure (e.g., laughing, sneezing, coughing, exercising), which is not seen here.

**C - Increased bladder sensitivity** - Increased bladder sensitivity results from overactivity of the detrusor muscle, which causes urge incontinence. Urge incontinence is characterized by a strong urge to void that usually precedes or accompanies urine leakage, which is not seen here.

**D - Intrinsic sphincteric deficiency** - Intrinsic sphincteric deficiency can cause stress incontinence, and it can occur in patients with pelvic fractures and/or following pelvic surgery, similar to this patient. However, stress incontinence is characterized by urinary leakage during activities that increase intra-abdominal pressure (e.g., laughing, sneezing, coughing, exercising), which is not seen here.

**E - Complete loss of sphincter function** - Complete loss of sphincter function can cause total incontinence, which can result from a spinal cord injury and manifest with involuntary urine loss without an urge to urinate, similar to what is seen here. This patient's urinary incontinence, however, only occurs when her bladder is full (she no longer dribbles urine for a few hours after catheterization), whereas total incontinence is characterized by continuous urinary leakage.

