### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Low-protein diet** - The consumption of animal protein is associated with increased urinary calcium, which can precipitate calcium stones; both calcium oxalate (most common) and calcium phosphate types. Therefore, this patient should be advised to follow a low-protein diet. Other conservative measures for calcium stones include generous hydration (the most important intervention; fluid intake should be ≥ 2.5 L/day), analgesia (mainly acetaminophen), thiazides (increase tubular reabsorption of Ca2+, which decreases urinary Ca2+), alkalinization (e.g., with potassium citrate), a low-sodium diet (prevents dehydration), and reduced consumption of oxalate-rich foods.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - High-sodium diet** - High sodium levels ultimately cause an increase in urine output, which results in both dehydration and increased amounts of calcium excreted in the urine. This increases the risk of calcium phosphate stones or calcium oxalate stones formation. This patient would benefit from a low-sodium, not a high-sodium, diet.

**B - Low-calcium diet** - In the intestinal lumen, calcium binds to oxalate, which is then excreted in the feces. A low-calcium diet decreases intestinal excretion of oxalate, freeing up more for absorption. As a result, the increased urinary oxalate binds more calcium in the renal tubule, which can precipitate calcium oxalate stones, the most common type of kidney stones. Therefore, this patient would not benefit from a low-calcium diet.

**C - Thiazide diuretic** - Thiazide diuretics can be used for prophylaxis of recurrent calcium-containing stones in the general population. Thiazides are primarily indicated for patients with hypercalciuria, as they increase calcium reabsorption from the renal tubule, which decreases the amount of tubular calcium available for precipitation and stone formation. In pregnancy, thiazide diuretics are contraindicated due to fetal side effects such as thrombocytopenia, hypoglycemia, and hyponatremia. Additionally, diuretics are generally avoided in pregnancy due to the increased risk of dehydration and volume depletion. Furthermore, thiazide diuretics should only be considered to prevent stone recurrence after conducting a metabolic evaluation, which is not routinely performed in first-time stone formers.

**D - High-oxalate diet** - A high-oxalate diet is a risk factor for the development of kidney stones. Increased oxalate consumption leads to hyperoxaluria, which in turn can bind to calcium in the renal tubule and precipitate into calcium oxalate stones, the most common type of kidney stones (80%). Therefore, a low-oxalate diet would be recommended for this patient to decrease her risk of nephrolithiasis.

**F - Vitamin C supplementation** - Vitamin C supplementation is unlikely to benefit this patient. Excess vitamin C is excreted in the urine in the form of oxalate, which precipitates with calcium in the renal tubule, thereby increasing the risk of calcium oxalate stone formation.

