### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis** - A CT scan with contrast of the abdomen and pelvis is the imaging modality of choice for evaluating abdominal injuries, including those of the genitourinary tract, in patients with blunt abdominal trauma (BAT). BAT is a major cause of mortality among all age groups and should always be taken seriously, especially because a patient's initial presentation may be benign despite significant intra-abdominal injury. Because this patient has a fracture of the 11th rib on the right side as well as microscopic hematuria on urinalysis following blunt abdominal trauma, a renal injury should be suspected. Therefore, a CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis with intravenous contrast is the most appropriate next step in the management of this patient.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Suprapubic catheterization** - Placement of a suprapubic catheter is indicated to relieve and prevent urinary retention. Indications of suprapubic catheter placement include urethral injuries requiring surgical repair, urethral obstruction, acute prostatitis, or prostate cancer in which transurethral catheterization is contraindicated or technically not possible. Microscopic hematuria, as seen in this patient, can be a sign of a mild urethral injury, but it would need to be confirmed before a suprapubic catheterization is considered. In addition, the patient has no signs of urinary retention such as abdominal pain or a palpable suprapubic mass.

**B - Intravenous pyelography** - Intravenous pyelography (IVP) is used for evaluation of possible renal disease, detection of renal stones, or to assess potential contrast extravasation if contrast enhanced CT images are not diagnostic. IVP was formerly a preferred imaging modality for renal trauma, but CT has supplanted IVP as the modality of choice.

**C - Exploratory laparotomy** - Exploratory laparotomy after BAT is indicated in patients with unexplained blood loss or hypotension who cannot be stabilized, patients with clear persisting signs of peritoneal irritation and/or evidence of diaphragmatic rupture, and patients with evidence of free-fluid in the abdominal cavity. This patient, however, shows no signs of hemodynamic instability (e.g., hypotension, tachycardia), active bleeding, peritoneal irritation, or diaphragmatic rupture.

**E - Retrograde urethrocystography** - Retrograde urethrocystography is used to evaluate the lower genitourinary tract and urinary bladder. It is indicated in patients with gross hematuria or blood at the urethral meatus following a pelvic fracture. This patient, however, only has microscopic hematuria and no signs of a pelvic fracture. Therefore, a retrograde urethrocystography is not indicated at this time.

**F - Observation and follow-up** - Observation and follow-up may be appropriate in patients who are hemodynamically stable and have no signs of traumatic injury. Although mild microscopic hematuria is common following blunt abdominal trauma and does not necessarily indicate genitourinary injury, this patient has evidence of a right rib fracture, which is concerning for a renal injury. Therefore, observation and follow-up would not be an appropriate next step.

