### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Nephrolithiasis** - Nephrolithiasis typically presents with unilateral, colicky flank pain that may radiate to the groin with associated costovertebral angle tenderness and is usually associated with microscopic hematuria and dysuria. To confirm the diagnosis, imaging is required. The gold standard would be a nonenhanced abdominopelvic CT scan to calculate size, site, and density of the stone and detect a possible hydronephrosis on the affected side. However, since this patient is pregnant, the modality of choice would be ultrasound of the kidneys, ureters, and the bladder, which can also rule out other gynecological differential diagnoses.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Lower urinary tract infection** - Lower urinary tract infection (e.g., cystitis) is very common in pregnant patients since the enlarging uterus increases urinary stasis and progesterone diminishes effectiveness of bladder mobility. Infections generally present with low-grade or no fever, dysuria, and suprapubic tenderness. Urinalysis shows hematuria, positive leukocyte esterase, and pyuria. In this patient, the absence of true pyuria (> 10 WBC) and the presence of colicky flank pain are inconsistent with the common presentation of a lower urinary tract infection.

**B - Ovarian torsion** - Ovarian torsion is a surgical emergency seen most often in nonpregnant and first-trimester women as the gravid uterus limits the mobility of the ovaries in women further along in pregnancy. Affected patients often describe acute progressive, unilateral, lower quadrant pain after exercise or other physical activity. This patient is already in the 30th week of pregnancy. Moreover, ovarian torsion could not explain the microscopic hematuria or costovertebral tenderness.

**C - Cholecystitis** - Cholecystitis is common in pregnancy due to decreased gallbladder motility and increased cholesterol content of bile. The typical presentation of cholecystitis is episodic right upper quadrant pain (with possible radiation to the back or right shoulder), especially after meals, along with nausea and vomiting. The patient described here has unilateral pain but it radiates to the groin and there is no report of symptoms being temporally related to eating. Additionally, cholecystitis would not explain her dysuria and hematuria.

**E - Pelvic inflammatory disease** - Acute pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is usually caused by Neisseria gonorrhea or Chlamydia trachomatis. It may also present with dysuria and nausea; however, abnormal vaginal discharge would be expected as well as severe pain of the lower abdomen instead of back pain. There is also no sexual history to indicate that this patient is at increased risk of PID. Furthermore, the risk of PID is generally lower in pregnancy since the cervical mucus plug prevents bacteria from ascending. Lastly, PID would not typically cause hematuria.

**F - Pyelonephritis** - Pyelonephritis is a significant cause of maternal and fetal morbidity. The typical presentation consists of high fevers (> 39.0° C), chills, and constant unilateral flank pain with dysuria as well as urinary frequency and urgency. Urinalysis almost always exhibits hematuria and pyuria. The patient described here has some features consistent with acute pyelonephritis such as flank pain (though episodic), costovertebral angle tenderness, and hematuria. However, the absence of high fever and significant pyuria make this diagnosis unlikely.

**G - Appendicitis** - Appendicitis is the most common nonobstetrical indication for abdominal surgery in pregnant women. However, the classic presentation consists of new-onset abdominal pain that begins diffusely in the periumbilical area and subsequently migrates to the right lower quadrant. Nausea, vomiting, fever, and reduced appetite are often present as well. Although appendicitis may also present in a nonclassic fashion, e.g. with the kind of pain described here, it is not the most likely explanation for this patient's condition. Additionally, it would not explain her dysuria and hematuria.

