### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Insert transurethral Foley catheter** - Relief of the overfilled bladder via transurethral catheterization is the treatment of choice for patients with AUR. Precipitating drugs, such as diphenhydramine, should be discontinued or substituted. Drug-induced AUR can result from decreased detrusor muscle contractility or increased urethral sphincter tone. Decreased detrusor muscle contractility is usually due to the anticholinergic effects of drugs such as anticholinergics, first-generation antihistamines, and tricyclic antidepressants. Increased urethral sphincter tone is typically due to the sympathomimetic effects of drugs such as beta and alpha-adrenergic agonists.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Start treatment with oral finasteride** - Although finasteride reduces the incidence of AUR in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia, which this patient most likely has, it is not used to treat acute episodes of urinary retention because it usually takes several months before it has a noticeable effect.

**B - Place suprapubic catheter** - A suprapubic catheter should be placed if transurethral catheterization is not feasible (e.g., urethral stricture, large prostate) or is contraindicated (e.g., acute bacterial prostatitis). Since this patient has no known contraindications for transurethral catheterization and its feasibility has not yet been assessed, suprapubic catheterization is not indicated at this point.

**C - Obtain CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis** - A CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis is useful for diagnosing urolithiasis, which can cause AUR if a calculus obstructs the urethral orifice. However, in a patient with urolithiasis, the pain is usually colicky and, since most calculi contain calcium, a hyperechoic calculus with an acoustic shadow is typically seen on ultrasound. In a patient with AUR, a different step is more appropriate at this point.

**D - Administer oral bethanechol** - Bethanechol can be used to treat acute postoperative urinary retention, postpartum urinary retention, or urinary retention in patients with a neurogenic bladder, none of which is seen here. Furthermore, even in the presence of such indications, bethanechol is not the first-line treatment, as it does not provide immediate relief.

**F - Administer normal saline bolus** - A normal saline bolus can be administered in patients with anuria secondary to prerenal acute kidney injury (AKI) as an attempt for fluid repletion. However, this patient's distended bladder indicates urinary tract obstruction (postrenal) rather than prerenal AKI. IV fluid administration is not indicated in this patient, as it would increase urine production, thereby exacerbating the AUR and bladder distention.

