### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Discontinue rifampin** - Allergic interstitial nephritis is an intrinsic renal cause of acute kidney injury. Initial treatment involves addressing the underlying cause (i.e., the offending drug) and providing IV fluids, as the condition will usually resolve spontaneously after discontinuation of the causal agent. Given that this patient recently began treatment for active tuberculosis, the most likely cause is rifampin.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Initiate hemodialysis** - Hemodialysis might be necessary in a case of severe or prolonged allergic interstitial nephritis in order to replace renal function. For better evaluation, further lab studies should be obtained, e.g., potassium levels and electrolytes. However, this patient can still benefit from much less invasive therapeutic measures and does not meet any indications for hemodialysis (yet).

**B - Administer ciprofloxacin** - Ciprofloxacin is a first-line treatment for acute pyelonephritis, which commonly causes fever, flank pain, and pyuria, as seen in this patient. However, patients with pyelonephritis are usually acutely ill and present with chills, nausea, and costovertebral angle tenderness on examination. In the setting of an acute bacterial infection, moreover, leukocytosis with a left shift would would also be expected. Furthermore, a maculopapular rash, eosinophilia, and eosinophiluria are not features of pyelonephritis.

**C - Increase the dose of antituberculosis drugs** - Renal tuberculosis (TB) is a form of extrapulmonary tuberculosis most commonly seen in individuals with cellular immunity deficiency (e.g., patients with AIDS), in which case Mycobacterium tuberculosis does not remain confined to the lungs. Although this patient has flank pain, microscopic hematuria, and fever, the findings of eosinophiluria and a maculopapular rash are more consistent with acute (allergic) interstitial nephritis, and increasing the dose of anti-TB drugs may worsen this patient's condition.

**E - Perform percutaneous nephrostomy** - Percutaneous nephrostomy tube drainage may be appropriate for the treatment of acute upper urinary tract obstruction, which commonly presents with flank pain. While azotemia and acute kidney injury can be caused by postrenal obstruction, image studies (e.g., renal ultrasound) are needed first in order to establish a diagnosis. Furthermore, this patient's findings of fever, rash, and eosinophiluria are more consistent with acute interstitial nephritis.

**F - Perform serum protein electrophoresis** - Serum protein electrophoresis would be the best initial test for a patient with suspected multiple myeloma (MM). While intrinsic renal injury and elevated BUN and creatinine may be a complication of immunoglobulins accumulating in the renal tubule (i.e., Bence Jones protein), MM most commonly presents in elderly patients with bone pain and hypercalcemia. Microscopic hematuria, fever, the findings of eosinophiluria and a maculopapular rash would not be expected in a patient with MM.

Image File: 1367-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58c81ed27c883.jpg

**G - Perform renal biopsy** - Renal biopsy would be an appropriate diagnostic step in the context of acute kidney injury if glomerular injury were suspected as the cause of hematuria, such as in rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis. Although this patient has flank pain and RBCs on urinalysis, he does not have RBC casts and his fever, rash, and eosinophiluria are more consistent with acute (allergic) interstitial nephritis. While renal biopsy would be the most accurate diagnostic test for acute interstitial nephritis, it is not necessary and would delay a more appropriate initial step in management.

**H - Administer furosemide** - Furosemide alleviates symptoms of volume overload (i.e., dyspnea) and would be an appropriate treatment for acute kidney injury, e.g., prerenal azotemia in a patient with congestive heart failure. The ratio between this patient's elevated BUN and creatinine is < 20:1, making prerenal causes unlikely. This patients does not present with any signs or symptoms of volume overload, e.g., peripheral edema or jugular venous distention. Also, the findings of fever, maculopapular rash, and eosinophiluria are more consistent with acute interstitial nephritis.

