### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Ureteral stone** - Kidney stones classically manifest with nausea and sudden episodes of severe, unilateral abdominal and flank pain (renal colic) due to distention of the renal capsule and/or the ureter proximal to the obstruction. The pain radiates to the ipsilateral lower abdomen, groin, testicles (or labia majora in women), and perineum (typically T10–S4 dermatomes) as the stone migrates from the renal pelvis through the ureter. Occasionally, on abdominal palpation, there is also mild tenderness in the vicinity of the stone. The pain of renal colic increases steadily, typically reaches maximum intensity within 1–2 hours, and then plateaus until the stone leaves the ureter (usually after another few hours) or is removed. Although intermittent pain exacerbations (lasting several minutes) can occur as a result of ureteral peristalsis, the term renal “colic” is considered a misnomer because the pain does not cease completely in between exacerbations as it often does with intestinal colic. The passage of the stone into the bladder characteristically results in rapid relief from pain. The two episodes of renal colic in this patient resulted from two different ureteral stones; recurrence of urolithiasis is common. Depending on the location of the stone, urolithiasis may resemble conditions such as appendicitis or testicular torsion. The reduced bowel sounds on auscultation of the abdomen most likely indicate that the patient has a mild adynamic ileus, which is a reflexive response to severe pain.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Adynamic intestinal obstruction** - Adynamic intestinal obstruction (paralytic ileus) results in reduced bowel sounds, abdominal pain, and nausea. However, in paralytic ileus, abdominal pain is caused by intestinal distention; it typically occurs days after the onset of paralytic ileus and is present diffusely in the abdomen; a paralytic ileus alone does not explain the hyperacute onset of lower abdominal pain, tenderness on the right side of the abdomen, or the radiation of pain to the groin and testis seen here. This patient has a mild paralytic ileus but his symptoms are caused by a different condition.

**B - Testicular torsion** - Testicular torsion can manifest with groin pain, nausea, and lower abdominal pain, which are seen here. Vigorous physical activity is a risk factor and patients might also report a similar episode in the past that resolved spontaneously (intermittent testicular torsion). However, in testicular torsion, the pain starts in the testicle and radiates to the abdomen, whereas the opposite is seen here. Moreover, other features of testicular torsion, including testicular swelling, testicular tenderness, and abnormal position of the testicle, would also be expected.

**C - Infection of the epididymis** - Infection of the epididymis, most commonly caused by bacterial urinary tract infections or sexually transmitted infections, may manifest with unilateral scrotal pain, flank pain, and a low-grade fever. However, in epididymitis, the pain starts in the scrotum and may radiate to the ipsilateral flank, whereas the opposite is seen here. Furthermore, other features of infection of the epididymis, including scrotal swelling and scrotal erythema, are not seen in this patient. Finally, nausea, abdominal tenderness, and reduced bowel sounds are not typical features of epididymitis.

**E - Incarcerated hernia** - An incarcerated groin hernia (e.g., femoral hernia, inguinal hernia) can result in dragging groin pain, and weightlifting is a risk factor for hernia development. An incarcerated hernia can also cause nausea and abdominal pain, which are seen here, as a result of mechanical bowel obstruction. However, a patient with mechanical bowel obstruction would have hyperactive rather than hypoactive bowel sounds, and there is no groin swelling in this patient to suggest a hernia. Moreover, the presence of tenderness on the right side of the abdomen, the previous episode of similar pain one month ago, and the pattern of change in pain intensity during the previous episode are not consistent with an incarcerated hernia.

**F - Periappendiceal pus** - Periappendiceal pus indicates an appendiceal abscess or a ruptured appendix, which are complications of appendicitis. While appendicitis may manifest with severe right-sided lower abdominal pain and tenderness (at the McBurney point) as well as nausea, other features of appendicitis (e.g., rebound tenderness, guarding, fever) would be expected. Furthermore, the radiation of pain into the right groin and testis, the previous episode of similar pain one month ago, and the pattern of change in pain intensity during the previous episode are not consistent with appendicitis.

