### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Recommend fluid intake and discharge the patient** - Conservative therapy (i.e., recommending fluid intake and discharging the patient with pain medications) is the most appropriate initial step in the management of a patient with an uncomplicated ureteral stone (i.e., absence of hemodynamic instability, urosepsis, acute renal failure, hydronephrosis) measuring < 10 mm because these stones have a high rate of spontaneous passage. Medical expulsive therapy (MET) with alpha blockers (e.g., tamsulosin) or calcium-channel blockers (e.g., nifedipine) can be offered to facilitate the passage of the stone, especially in patients with distal ureteral stones measuring 5–10 mm. There is no consensus on the optimal duration of MET but 4–6 weeks is usually preferred. Patients who are managed conservatively at home should strain their urine to recover the stone for further analysis. They should also be counseled to return for urologic evaluation if there is uncontrolled pain or if the stone does not pass.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Admit the patient for percutaneous nephrolithotomy** - Percutaneous nephrolithotomy is the first-line treatment for renal stones with a total stone burden > 20 mm (> 10 mm in the case of lower pole renal stones) or for stones that have a complex morphology or atypical composition (e.g., cystine stones, uric acid stones). Because this patient's ureteral stone measures < 10 mm, a different approach should be considered.

**B - Perform emergent nephrostomy** - Emergent nephrostomy or ureteral stenting is indicated in urolithiasis complicated by hydronephrosis (i.e., severe obstruction) or infection (i.e., pyonephrosis) to provide surgical decompression prior to definitive stone treatment. This patient presents with an uncomplicated ureteral stone with no evidence of hydronephrosis or infection (e.g., fever or pyuria, which is defined as > 5–10 WBC/hpf); therefore, emergent nephrostomy is not the most appropriate treatment in this case.

**C - Admit the patient for extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy** - Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (SWL) is a first-line treatment for renal stones with a total stone burden ≤ 20 mm (≤ 10 mm in the case of lower pole renal stones). It can be used in proximal ureteral stones measuring > 10 mm as long as there are no contraindications to SWL (e.g., concomitant urinary tract infection, massive obesity, bleeding diathesis). Because this patient's ureteral stone measures < 10 mm, SWL is not the most appropriate next step in management.

**D - Admit the patient for therapeutic ureterorenoscopy** - Therapeutic ureterorenoscopy (URS) is a first-line treatment for renal stones with a total stone burden ≤ 20 mm (≤ 10 mm in the case of lower pole renal stones) or ureteral stones measuring > 10 mm (especially mid- or distal ureteral stones). Because this patient's ureteral stone measures < 10 mm, URS is not the most appropriate next step in management.

**E - Initiate oral ciprofloxacin therapy** - Oral antibiotics (e.g., ciprofloxacin) are frequently used to treat complicated cystitis or uncomplicated pyelonephritis, and may also may be indicated in patients with stones complicated by a UTI. This patient, however, has no signs or symptoms suggestive of a urinary tract infection (e.g., fever, dysuria, or pyuria, which is defined as > 5–10 WBC/hpf).

