### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Decreased antidiuretic hormone secretion** - An underlying neurological disorder (e.g., a brain tumor such as craniopharyngioma or metastasis) can lead to direct or indirect dysfunction of the hypothalamic neurons of the posterior pituitary gland, which decreases ADH secretion and causes central diabetes insipidus (CDI). CDI may be idiopathic or secondary; other secondary causes include traumatic brain injury, pituitary bleeding, subarachnoid hemorrhage, pituitary ischemia, meningitis, and neurosurgery.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increased water intake** - While increased water intake, as seen in patients with psychogenic polydipsia, can cause decreased urine osmolarity, it would also result in hyponatremia and decreased serum osmolarity.

**B - Increased antidiuretic hormone secretion** - Increased pituitary ADH release can be of pituitary (trauma, drugs) or ectopic origin (small cell lung cancer), resulting in SIADH. Increased ADH activity causes more water reabsorption in the collecting ducts, which results in hyponatremia, decreased serum osmolality, and increased urine osmolarity, unlike this patient with hypernatremia, increased serum osmolality, and decreased urine osmolarity.

**C - Decreased antidiuretic hormone receptor activity** - Decreased ADH receptor activity is seen in nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI), which presents similar to this patient. However, this patient's history of progressive headache, visual impairment, and recent seizure suggests a brain tumor affecting the pituitary gland as a likely cause.

**D - Increased adrenocorticotropin hormone secretion** - Increased ACTH secretion is seen in patients with Cushing disease. While patients with Cushing can present with hypernatremia and metabolic alkalosis, due to the mineralocorticoid effect of cortisol, this patient's normal glucose and potassium, is more suggestive of an alternative diagnosis (Cushing causes hyperglycemia and hypokalemia). Moreover, classic symptoms such as hyperpigmentation, buffalo hump, abdominal striae, hirsutism, acne, hyperglycemia, and hypertension are not present in this patient.

**F - Decreased adrenocorticotropin hormone secretion** - Decreased ACTH secretion due to an impaired hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (secondary adrenal insufficiency) can be a complication of an underlying neurological disorder. However, unlike this patient, it typically presents with hyponatremia (due to lack of cortisol and its mineralocorticoid effect), and the urine concentrating capacity is not affected. Additionally, weight loss, weakness, nausea/vomiting, hyperkalemia, hypoglycemia, and hypotension would be expected.

