### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Hemodialysis** - Patients with uremia are at risk of pericarditis, seizures, coma, and hemorrhage due to platelet dysfunction, and require urgent hemodialysis to remove uremic toxins. Hemodialysis is also the most effective and definitive treatment option for hyperkalemia and volume overload in patients with renal failure.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer haloperidol** - Haloperidol is primarily used to treat schizophrenia, mania, delusions, and states of agitation. Although this patient presents with altered mental status (AMS) and is disoriented to time and place, there is no indication for an antipsychotic drug at this time. Her AMS is most likely a result of her underlying condition, which should be treated first.

**B - Administer lactulose** - Lactulose is effective in reducing serum ammonia levels in patients with hepatic encephalopathy (HE). The symptoms of HE are nonspecific and include confusion, lethargy, nausea, and further neuropsychiatric changes (e.g., memory loss), as well as elevated BUN levels, as with this patient. However, HE would not explain this patient's elevated creatinine and hyperkalemia, and symptoms of liver disease (e.g., jaundice, fetor hepaticus) would also be expected.

**D - Restart methotrexate** - In patients with SLE, MTX can be administered in addition to first-line treatment (hydroxychloroquine and glucocorticoids) to control moderate to severe symptoms. In addition, this patient requires systemic immunosuppressive therapy (high-dose glucocorticoids) to control SLE and prevent further renal injury. However, this patient's hyperkalemia and volume overload must be first addressed.

**E - Begin low-protein diet** - A low-protein diet of 0.8–1.0 g/kg body mass/day is recommended for the long-term management of all patients with chronic kidney disease. While this patient should be encouraged to restrict her protein intake, a low-protein diet is not appropriate for the management of her uremic encephalopathy.

**F - Fluid restriction** - This patient has signs of volume overload and would thus benefit from fluid restriction and loop diuretics. However, her symptoms of uremia require more immediate attention at this time.

