### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Noncontrast CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis** - A noncontrast CT scan (NCCT) of the abdomen and pelvis is the gold standard diagnostic exam for most adult patients with the first instance of sudden flank pain as it has a sensitivity and specificity of > 95% for the diagnosis of renal and ureteric stones. NCCT demonstrates the calculus location, size, density, and degree of obstruction (hydronephrosis); nearly all stones are radiopaque on NCCT. Renal ultrasonography (USG) with an x-ray of the kidney, ureter, and bladder (KUB) is not as sensitive as NCCT, especially for small stones. However, since most small stones are passed spontaneously, the combination of renal USG and KUB x-ray is a reasonable and cheaper initial imaging protocol to detect large stones (i.e., ones that might require removal) when NCCT is not available. In patients in whom radiation exposure should be minimized (e.g., children, pregnant patients), renal USG alone is the imaging modality of choice. In recent years, reduced-radiation NCCT has become available and can be safely used in children. NCCT also has the advantage of being able to detect atypical causes of flank pain such as diverticulitis and appendicitis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ultrasound of the bladder and kidneys** - Ultrasound of the bladder and kidneys alone can be used as an initial imaging test for patients in whom radiation exposure should be minimized (e.g., in children, pregnancy). Moreover, because ultrasonography of the kidney has a high sensitivity to detect hydronephrosis, it is also used in the emergency department in patients with a known history of stone disease and recurrent flank pain in order to minimize cumulative radiation exposure. In most adult patients with the first instance of flank pain from suspected stone disease, such as this woman, radiation exposure from imaging is not a significant concern and a different imaging modality is preferred. Ultrasonography alone has a relatively low sensitivity for stone detection, especially for small stones and distal ureteric stones.

**B - X-ray of the kidneys, ureters, and bladder** - X-ray of the kidneys, ureters, and bladder (KUB) alone is not used for the initial diagnosis of nephrolithiasis because it has poor sensitivity in detecting very small stones and stones composed of cystine or uric acid (radiolucent on x-ray). Also, bowel contents can obscure the visualization of a stone by a KUB x-ray. This imaging modality is more commonly used to monitor patients with nephrolithiasis for stone passage rather than for initial diagnosis.

**C - Twenty-four-hour urine profile** - A 24-hour urine profile is used for metabolic evaluation in patients with recurrent nephrolithiasis and high-risk, first-time stone formers (e.g., patients with a solitary or a transplanted kidney). This timed urine collection allows the analysis of urine composition to identify possible risk factors for stone formation (e.g., decreased urine pH, hypocitraturia, hyperoxaluria). However, it is this patient's first episode of nephrolithiasis, and the patient is not considered high-risk; therefore, a 24-hour urine profile is not indicated.

**D - Metabolic evaluation** - Metabolic evaluation including serum calcium, phosphorus, uric acid, bicarbonate, PTH, and a twenty-four-hour urine profile, is indicated in patients with recurrent nephrolithiasis and high-risk, first-time stone formers (e.g., patients with a solitary or a transplanted kidney) to identify possible risk factors for stone formation (e.g., decreased urine pH, hypocitraturia, hyperoxaluria, hyperuricemia, hyperparathyroidism). However, it is this patient's first episode of nephrolithiasis, and the patient is not considered high-risk; therefore, a metabolic evaluation is not indicated.

**F - Intravenous pyelogram** - Intravenous pyelogram was once considered the initial imaging modality of choice in patients with nephrolithiasis as it provides a complete outline of the urinary tract, allows the identification of the obstruction, and detects hydronephrosis. However, it requires IV contrast and, in some cases, multiple films, which increases radiation exposure. Nowadays, intravenous pyelogram is not the most appropriate first-line imaging test for nephrolithiasis.

**G - Urine culture** - A urine culture is obtained in patients with nephrolithiasis and clinical or laboratory signs of a urinary tract infection, such as fever, dysuria, pyuria, positive leukocyte esterase, and positive nitrites, none of which is seen here.

