### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Abdominal bruit** - An abnormal swishing sound heard on auscultation over a blood vessel is referred to as bruit. It reflects the turbulence of the blood flow in a stenosed vascular segment. The bruit of renal artery stenosis is continuous (occurs during systole and diastole) and can be auscultated over the costovertebral angles of the flank and/or over the epigastrium, 2–3 cm lateral to the midline.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Elevated urine metanephrines** - Elevated urinary metanephrines are diagnostic of pheochromocytoma, which can cause new-onset hypertension and headaches, as seen in this patient. However, pheochromocytoma appears as a solid or cystic lesion in the adrenal glands on imaging rather than renal atrophy.

**C - Polycythemia** - Polycythemia (due to production of erythropoietin) and new-onset hypertension (due to production of renin) can develop as paraneoplastic phenomena in patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC). However, RCC usually appears as a mass on imaging rather than renal atrophy.

**D - Hematuria** - Hematuria and new-onset hypertension can develop in patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) or nephritic syndrome. However, neither of these conditions causes renal atrophy. RCC appears as a mass on imaging; nephritic syndrome is not associated with specific ultrasound findings.

**E - Varicocele** - Varicoceles are classically caused by compression of the venous system that drains the testicle (e.g., due to renal cell carcinoma). RCC can cause new-onset hypertension (due to production of renin) but appears as a mass on imaging rather than renal atrophy.

