### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - CT scan of the abdomen** - This patient's presentation is highly suspicious of renal cell carcinoma (RCC): chronic fatigue, left-sided flank pain, hypercalcemia (secondary to paraneoplastic production of parathyroid-related protein), microscopic hematuria, and a left-sided varicocele that fails to resolve on lying down. Abdominal CT scan with contrast is the imaging modality of choice for the diagnosis of RCC to demonstrate the extent of the lesion, and help determine if hilar lymph nodes and/or the renal vein are involved.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Scrotal ultrasound** - Scrotal ultrasound is the imaging modality of choice for the diagnosis of varicocele (although it is often a clinical diagnosis). This patient with a varicocele on physical examination, combined with his other manifestations (chronic fatigue, left-sided flank pain, constipation which is probably due to hypercalcemia, and anemia which is probably due to hematuria), should raise suspicion for another ongoing pathology that warrants a different step.

**C - Urine cytology** - Urine cytology can be used in the diagnosis of transitional cell carcinoma (TCC). The most common presentation of TCC is painless gross hematuria. Although this patient presents with hematuria, it is not painless. In addition, TCC does not cause varicocele, and hypercalcemia is uncommon. Moreover, urine cytology has low sensitivity (high false-negative rates) and is not routinely recommended.

**D - Chest x-ray** - Chest x-ray can be used as an initial investigation for patients with suspected lung cancer. Squamous cell lung carcinoma presents with fatigue, weight loss, and a smoking history, and can cause paraneoplastic hypercalcemia due to PTHrP production, which is consistent with this patient's history. However, lung cancer would not explain hematuria and varicocele, and other symptoms, such as hemoptysis and cough would be expected.

**E - Prostate biopsy** - Prostate biopsy is used to confirm prostatic carcinoma after a suspicious digital rectal examination (DRE) and/or elevated PSA levels. Prostatic carcinoma can present with hematuria and back pain when metastasized. However, this patient's DRE findings of symmetrically enlarged prostate with no masses is most likely due to benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Moreover, prostatic carcinoma would not explain this patient's varicocele.

**F - Serum protein electrophoresis** - Serum protein electrophoresis is the best initial investigation for the diagnosis of multiple myeloma. This condition can manifest with bone pain (especially back pain), symptoms of hypercalcemia, fatigue, and anemia. However, multiple myeloma does not typically cause hematuria or a varicocele.

