### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Nodular glomerulosclerosis** - Nodular glomerulosclerosis with Kimmelstiel-Wilson nodules is pathognomonic of diabetic nephropathy, even though diffuse glomerulosclerosis is the most common finding. Early antihypertensive treatment, e.g., with ACE inhibitors, can delay the progression of diabetic nephropathy. Antihyperglycemic therapy for this patient should include lifestyle changes (i.e., weight reduction, increased physical activity, medical nutrition therapy), as well as monotherapy with metformin or insulin therapy to target a hemoglobin A1c < 7%.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Interstitial inflammation** - Interstitial inflammation is a common finding in allergic interstitial nephritis, a type of nephropathy that is caused by a hypersensitivity reaction to drugs such as antibiotics, NSAIDs, and diuretics. This disorder typically presents with eosinophiluria, gross hematuria, flank pain, and a diffuse maculopapular rash, which are absent here.

**B - Wire looping of capillaries** - Capillary wire looping, which is associated with diffuse subendothelial glomerular deposits, is a typical electron microscopic finding in diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis (DPGN). DPGN can manifest with elevated serum creatinine, and nephrotic syndrome, as seen in this patient, but it most commonly occurs in individuals with systemic lupus erythematosus and typically presents with gross hematuria.

**D - Immune complex deposition** - Immune complex deposition showing a “spike-and-dome” appearance on electron microscope is a characteristic finding in patients with membranous nephropathy, the most common cause of nephrotic syndrome in white adults. Deposition of antibodies between podocytes and the basal membrane causes thickening of glomerular capillary loops and the basal membrane, which in turn leads to nephrotic syndrome. However, the disease would not explain this man's neurologic findings in conjunction with elevated hemoglobin A1c.

**E - Split glomerular basement membrane** - Splitting of the glomerular basement membrane (tram track appearance) on electron microscopy is seen in membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. Although this condition is associated with nephrotic syndrome, which this patient likely has, the disease would not explain his neurologic findings in conjunction with elevated hemoglobin A1c. Splitting of the glomerular basement membrane can also be found in individuals with Alport syndrome, but this condition presents with hematuria in males during infancy.

