### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Cystoscopy** - Cystoscopy is indicated in any patient with gross hematuria that is not explained by UTI (i.e., negative nitrites and leukocyte esterase on urine dipstick) or glomerular disease (i.e., no proteinuria). This procedure enables direct visualization of the urethral and bladder mucosa with possible biopsy collection and can reliably detect malignancy or other sources of bleeding. Cystoscopy should be combined with CT urography for evaluation of the entire urinary tract.

Cystoscopy is also indicated in patients > 35 years of age with asymptomatic microhematuria and may be considered in patients < 35 years of age with risk factors for urinary tract cancer (e.g., tobacco use, cyclophosphamide treatment, prolonged exposure to aniline dye).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Repeat urinalysis in one week** - While this patient's increased INR puts him at risk for warfarin-associated urinary tract bleeding, repeating the urinalysis one week after adjusting the warfarin dosage is not the most appropriate next step at this point. All patients with unexplained gross hematuria should undergo further diagnostic evaluation of the urinary tract for underlying malignancy irrespective of anticoagulation therapy.

**B - Urine culture** - Urine cultures are performed to rule out UTIs, which can manifest with gross hematuria. However, this patient has no other clinical signs of UTI (e.g., dysuria, increased urinary frequency) and his urine dipstick is negative for white blood cells, nitrite, and leukocyte esterase. Therefore, it is not necessary to perform a urine culture.

**C - Ultrasound of the kidneys and bladder** - Ultrasound of the kidneys and bladder can be performed to evaluate the upper urinary tract and bladder for tumors, which can manifest with gross hematuria. However, as an initial imaging examination, ultrasound is only used for pregnant patients presenting with hematuria because it is less sensitive than CT urography. Moreover, neither ultrasound nor CT urography can provide a complete evaluation of the urinary system; both need to be combined with another diagnostic test.

**D - Retrograde pyelography** - Retrograde pyelography can be performed to rule out upper urinary tract malignancies, which can manifest with gross hematuria. However, this examination is typically used as an alternative for patients who have contraindications to CT urography (e.g., iodine allergy), which this patient does not have. Moreover, neither retrograde pyelography nor CT urography can provide a complete evaluation of the urinary system; both need to be combined with another diagnostic test.

