### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Retroperitoneal fibrosis** - Retroperitoneal fibrosis can entrap and obstruct retroperitoneal structures such as the ureters and subsequently lead to bilateral obstructive uropathy and renal failure, as seen here. Retroperitoneal fibrosis can also cause anorexia and nausea as a result of chronic mesenteric ischemia; and pedal edema as a result of inferior vena cava compression. Smoking and chronic ergotamine therapy are important risk factors for retroperitoneal fibrosis. Other risk factors include abdominal irradiation, retroperitoneal surgeries, and IgG4-related systemic disease.

Image File: 1387-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5639fcbd7479a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bladder cancer** - Bladder cancer can cause bladder outlet obstruction and, subsequently, bilateral obstructive uropathy, as seen here. This patient also has risk factors for bladder cancer such as smoking and advanced age. However, patients with bladder cancer also have voiding symptoms (e.g., dysuria, urinary frequency, urinary urgency) and/or hematuria, which are not seen here.

Image File: 1387-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a2ffdae579a8.jpg

**B - Ureteropelvic junction obstruction** - Ureteropelvic junction (UPJ) obstruction can result in hydronephrosis. However, because the site of obstruction in this condition is the junction of the renal pelvis and ureter, the proximal ureter would not be dilated. Moreover, ureteropelvic junction obstruction is more commonly diagnosed in children and typically presents with unilateral rather than bilateral hydronephrosis, unlike this elderly patient with bilateral hydronephrosis.

**D - Nephrolithiasis** - Nephrolithiasis can cause flank pain, nausea, and obstructive uropathy. However, nephrolithiasis typically results in unilateral obstructive uropathy. In patients with nephrolithiasis, bilateral obstructive uropathy can result from bilateral ureteric obstruction or bladder outlet obstruction but these scenarios are uncommon. Moreover, patients with nephrolithiasis commonly present with a history of intermittent, colicky flank pain prior to the onset of hydronephrosis, which is absent here. Finally, the absence of microscopic hematuria, urine crystals, and altered urine pH in this patient make another etiology more likely.

**E - Benign prostatic hyperplasia** - Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), which is common in elderly males, can cause bladder outlet obstruction and, subsequently, bilateral obstructive uropathy, as seen here. However, a normal digital rectal exam and the absence of lower urinary tract symptoms (e.g., urinary frequency, urgency, dysuria) make BPH unlikely.

