### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Cardiovascular disease** - Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death in patients undergoing dialysis, accounting for almost half of all deaths in this population, with a mortality rate up to 20-fold greater than in the general population. Sudden cardiac death is the single most common form of death in this population, followed by acute myocardial infarction. This higher mortality rate may be in part due to the traditional risk factors for CVD (e.g., diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia), most of which are also risk factors for end-stage renal disease (thus, the prevalence of these traditional risk factors would be high in patients on dialysis), in addition to the added risk factors due to renal dysfunction (e.g., malnutrition, increased catabolic state, inflammation). CVD is also the most common cause of death in patients receiving a kidney transplant.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Malignancy** - Patients undergoing renal replacement therapy are at increased risk of developing malignancy (up to 7-fold higher than the general population) due to many factors (e.g., renal replacement therapy increases the risk of acquired renal cystic disease, which is associated with renal cell carcinoma). However, malignancy is not the most common cause of death among these patients.

**B - Malnutrition** - Malnutrition can develop in patients on dialysis (particularly in older patients) due to many factors (e.g., depression, malabsorption, gastrointestinal motility disorders, anorexia). However, it is not the most common cause of death among these patients.

**C - Discontinuation of treatment** - The discontinuation of hemodialysis is common among patients with end-stage renal disease and is the third most common cause of death among patients receiving hemodialysis in the United States. The reasons are numerous, including advanced age, discomfort during dialysis sessions, and the limited autonomy associated with frequent hemodialysis. While death is inevitable in patients requiring renal replacement therapy (RRT), the time to death varies with the indication for RRT.

**D - Infection** - Infection (e.g., shunt infection) is the second most common cause of death among patients receiving hemodialysis and can be life-threatening, particularly for older patients on dialysis. These patients are at increased risk of infectious complications because they have reduced immune function (due to aging and poor nutritional status). Infection is also a common cause of death among renal transplant recipients and is attributed to (long-term) immunosuppressive therapy. However, infection is not the most common cause of death among these patients.

**E - Anemia** - Anemia is common in patients undergoing renal replacement therapy, and has a multifactorial etiology (e.g., decreased RBC production due to lack of erythropoietin in chronic kidney disease, increased RBC destruction due to hemolysis). However, anemia is not the most common cause of death among these patients.

**F - Gastrointestinal bleeding** - Patients on hemodialysis are at increased risk of major bleeding (particularly gastrointestinal bleeding) due to an acquired defect of primary hemostasis caused by platelet dysfunction and altered platelet-vessel wall interaction. However, this complication is not the most common cause of death in these patients.

**H - Cerebrovascular disease** - Cerebrovascular disease (e.g., stroke) is an important cause of mortality in patients undergoing dialysis, with an incidence 10-fold higher than that in the general population and a case fatality rate reaching up to 90%. However, cerebrovascular disease is not the most common cause of death in these patients.

