### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - 0.50** - The proportion of asthma hospitalizations attributable to PTSD in the PTSD group is the attributable risk percent (ARP), which can be calculated based on the relative risk (RR): ARP = (RR - 1)/RR. The RR can be calculated by dividing the incidence of asthma exacerbations in PTSD patients by the incidence of asthma exacerbations in patients without PTSD: (80/160)/(50/200) = 0.5/0.25 = 2.In this case, ARP = (2.0 - 1)/2.0 = 0.50. This means that 50% of the asthma exacerbations in the PTSD group can be attributed to PTSD.

Alternatively, the ARP can be calculated from the 2x2 table: ARP = attributable risk/risk in the exposed group. In this case, the risk in the exposed group is 80/160 = 0.5 and the attributable risk (AR) = (80/160) - (50/200) = (0.5 - 0.25) = 0.25. Consequently, ARP = 0.25/0.5 = 0.50 or 50%.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - 2.0** - 2.0 is the relative risk (RR), i.e., the risk of a patient with PTSD requiring hospitalization for asthma exacerbations compared to the risk of requiring hospitalization for asthma exacerbations without PTSD. The RR can be calculated by dividing the incidence of asthma exacerbations in PTSD patients by the incidence of asthma exacerbations in patients without PTSD: (80/160)/(50/200) = 0.5/0.25 = 2. A relative risk > 1.0 indicates a positive association and increased likelihood of asthma exacerbations in patients with PTSD. However, the RR does not measure the magnitude of the excess risk attributable to PTSD. To estimate the proportion of asthma hospitalizations attributable to PTSD in patients with PTSD, the ARP needs to be calculated.

**B - 0.25** - 0.25 is the attributable risk (AR), i.e., the difference between the risk of asthma exacerbation in the PTSD group and the group of patients without PTSD. The AR is calculated by taking the absolute risk of PTSD patients and subtracting the absolute risk of patients without PTSD. In this case, (80/160) - (50/200) = (0.5 - 0.25) = 0.25 or 25%. This means that patients in the PTSD group have an excess risk of 25% of developing an asthma exacerbation compared to patients in the group without PTSD.

**C - 3.0** - 3.0 is the odds ratio (OR), i.e., the probability of PTSD in a patient with an asthma exacerbation that requires hospitalization. The OR can be calculated as the odds of disease in the exposed group divided by the odds of disease in the unexposed group. In this case: OR = (80/80)/(50/150) = 1/(1/3) = 3. An OR > 1 means that there is an increased odds of patients with asthma exacerbation having PTSD.

**E - 4.0** - 4.0 is the number needed to harm (NNH), i.e., the number of individuals who need to be exposed (in this case, meaning the presence of PTSD) before one person develops an asthma exacerbation. NNH is calculated as: 1/attributable risk (AR). To determine the attributable risk here, the incidence of asthma exacerbations in patients with PTSD is subtracted from the incidence of asthma exacerbations in patients without PTSD. In this case, NNH is: 1/((80/160) - (50/200)) = 1/(0.5 - 0.25) = 1/0.25 = 4. In other words, 4 people need to develop PTSD in order to cause an asthma exacerbation in 1 patient.

