### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Radical cystectomy** - How bladder cancer is managed depends mainly on its stage. In patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer without positive lymph nodes or distant metastasis, radical cystectomy with construction of a urinary diversion (e.g., neobladder or ileal conduit) is the treatment of choice if the patient is a suitable surgical candidate and is willing to undergo the procedure. Neoadjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy should generally be offered, as it is associated with a survival benefit. However, this patient's hearing loss is a contraindication to cisplatin, as the drug is associated with considerable ototoxicity. An adjuvant chemotherapy should be considered.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Transurethral resection of tumor with intravesical chemotherapy** - Transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) with immediate intravesical chemotherapy (e.g., mitomycin or gemcitabine instillation) can reduce progression and the risk of recurrence in cases of low-grade non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer. However, this patient's urothelial cancer has already invaded the muscular layer of the bladder, which requires a different approach.

**B - Radiation therapy** - Radiation therapy with or without concurrent chemotherapy can be considered in patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancers who are not suitable candidates for the treatment of choice. Because it is not the preferred treatment modality, however, it is not recommended in this patient.

**C - Transurethral resection of tumor with intravesical BCG instillation** - Intravesical BCG instillation after transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) reduces progression and the risk of recurrence in patients with high-grade non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. However, this patient's urothelial cancer has already invaded the muscular layer of the bladder, which requires a different approach.

**E - Palliative polychemotherapy** - Palliative polychemotherapy is used in patients with advanced metastatic bladder cancer. In addition to symptom control, it may also provide a modest survival advantage. However, this patient's cancer has not metastasized (no abnormalities on chest x-ray and normal abdominal and pelvic CT scans). A different course of management is therefore required.

