### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Perform surgical cricothyroidotomy** - Emergency cricothyroidotomy is indicated in a cannot intubate-cannot ventilate (CICV) scenario, which is usually defined as the failure to intubate after three attempts or to maintain oxygenation or ventilation in between intubation attempts. In adult patients with acute epiglottitis, however, only one attempt at endotracheal intubation should be made before an emergency cricothyroidotomy is performed at the bedside. Patients with epiglottitis can develop worsening respiratory distress despite appropriate bag-mask ventilation, and they are predisposed to rapid progression to complete airway obstruction following any manipulation of the epiglottis. Therefore, as soon as epiglottitis is suspected, a physician with expertise in the management of difficult airways (e.g., anesthesiologist or otolaryngologist) should be notified and an intubation kit that includes the most advanced difficult airway adjuncts available (e.g., video laryngoscope, flexible fiberoptic bronchoscope) should be obtained.

In children under 12 years of age with epiglottitis, needle cricothyroidotomy is preferred because of the funnel shape and narrowness of the trachea at the height of the cricoid ring as opposed to adults, in whom the trachea is narrowest at the level of the vocal cords.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Continue bag-mask ventilation and move to intensive care unit** - In this patient, bag-mask ventilation has failed (SpO2 is persistently < 80%). Continuing bag-mask ventilation after a failed intubation attempt in which the manipulation has possibly caused this patient's partial airway obstruction to progress to complete airway obstruction is unlikely to improve the oxygenation status. Likewise, transferring the patient to the ICU before securing the airway would sacrifice valuable time and prolong or worsen hypoxia.

**B - Perform tracheostomy** - Tracheostomy is a complex procedure that is customarily performed as a planned procedure in the operating room. It is usually only used in emergencies after direct trauma to the airway or when the obstruction lies inferior to the cricothyroid membrane, neither of which are seen here. Patients requiring an immediate surgical airway typically undergo procedures that can be performed quickly at the bedside, are successfully completed using anatomical landmarks, and are associated with less bleeding.

**C - Reattempt fiberoptic endotracheal intubation** - Patients with epiglottitis should be intubated by an airway specialist using the best available technology (e.g., fiberoptic video laryngoscope). If the first attempt fails, additional attempts are contraindicated. In this cannot intubate-cannot ventilate scenario, the airway specialist should proceed to the next step in the difficult airway management algorithm to avoid prolonged hypoxia and further compromising the airway.

**E - Place a laryngeal mask** - Placing a laryngeal mask is contraindicated in patients with acute epiglottitis. These patients have an acute upper airway obstruction that cannot be bypassed by a supraglottic airway device, and insertion of a laryngeal mask can worsen swelling and anatomical conditions, making further attempts at airway access even more challenging.

