### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - CT scan of the chest** - A CT scan of the chest is the most appropriate diagnostic step for a case of recurrent pneumonia in the same anatomic region. This imaging test has a higher sensitivity for mass lesions than a chest x-ray and provides an accurate anatomic location of the mass for further diagnostic or treatment procedures, such as biopsy and/or surgery. If there is a pulmonary mass with signs of malignancy on chest CT (e.g., solid lesion ≥ 8 mm, with irregular margins, spiculated), the next step in management is to perform a CT-guided biopsy (if the mass is peripheral) or a bronchoscopy (if the mass is centrally located).

Image File: 1398-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60ad28265c9b1.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Interferon-gamma release assay** - Interferon-gamma release assay (IGRA) is a diagnostic test for tuberculosis (TB), which can manifest with fever, productive cough, dyspnea, and pulmonary infiltrates. Lower lobe consolidations may be seen in active primary TB or as a sequela thereof (Ghon complex); however, this patient lacks many other signs of active TB (e.g., weight loss, night sweats, malaise, hemoptysis) and has no history of immunosuppression or risk factors for TB (e.g., HIV infection, travel to endemic country). A positive IGRA may indicate active TB but is more commonly used to diagnose latent TB, which is typically asymptomatic. Although latent TB can reactivate, secondary TB usually affects the upper rather than lower lobes.

**B - Bronchoscopy** - Bronchoscopy is indicated to detect and biopsy endobronchial lesions and malignancies, which can cause obstruction and lead to recurrent pneumonia. Additionally, bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage may be useful in persistent pneumonia that is resistant to treatment to obtain bronchial samples for culture and cytology. However, bronchoscopy is an invasive procedure, and the location of the lesion and corresponding anatomy should be determined before pursuing this test.

**C - Upper endoscopy** - Upper endoscopy is used to evaluate esophageal conditions in patients with recurrent pneumonia due to aspiration. Esophageal conditions associated with aspiration include esophageal diverticula, gastroesophageal reflux disease, and esophageal motility disorders; this patient has no findings suggestive of such conditions (e.g., dysphagia, regurgitation, retrosternal pain). Moreover, aspiration pneumonia is more common in the right lung than the left lung because of the steep angle of the right bronchus.

**D - HIV antigen and anti-HIV antibody testing** - Combined antigen and antibody tests for HIV have a sensitivity of almost 100% and are the tests of choice to screen for HIV. Patients with HIV are susceptible to Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, Mycobacterium avium complex infection, and coccidioidomycosis, all of which can present with symptoms of recurrent pneumonia. While this patient's recurrent pneumonia should raise suspicion for an underlying cause, the recurrence in the same anatomical region points to an etiology other than immunodeficiency.

**E - Pulmonary function tests** - Pulmonary function tests (PFTs) are used to diagnose COPD, which is likely in a patient with a long history of smoking and end-expiratory wheezes on physical examination. However, this patient currently has pneumonia, which indicates a different diagnostic step. PFTs are also used for preoperative assessment of patients with planned lung resection and/or suspected respiratory disease. Although this patient's condition has likely developed due to lung cancer, which she may require lung surgery for at a later time, the diagnosis first needs to be confirmed.

