### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Chronic bronchitis** - Chronic bronchitis, a subtype of COPD, is the most likely diagnosis in a patient with a history of productive cough for 4–6 months each year for the past 2 years. The vast majority of cases of COPD can be attributed to smoking, and patients with ≥ 20–30 pack years have an 80–90% lifetime risk of developing COPD. Occupational exposure to organic/nonorganic dust can also significantly increase risk. Dyspnea will continue to become more severe until it is present even at rest. Smokers should, therefore, be counseled about cessation to reduce the rate of respiratory decline.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Asbestosis** - Asbestosis can manifest with nonspecific symptoms such as chronic cough and exertional dyspnea. Having worked in construction, it is possible that this patient has had occupational exposure to asbestos, and his smoking history would further increase the risk of disease progression. However, there is still a very long latent period, 15–20 years after significant exposure, before any signs of disease appear. Furthermore, asbestosis typically manifests with end-inspiratory rales rather than wheezes on auscultation.

**B - Hypersensitivity pneumonitis** - HP is mediated by a combined type III and type IV hypersensitivity reaction to an inhaled environmental allergen, typically organic particles in the course of occupational exposure (e.g., farmer's lung). Although the subacute form can also manifest with productive cough and dyspnea, this patient's symptoms are constant and do not have an identifiable trigger, making this an unlikely diagnosis. Smokers are actually at reduced risk of developing this type of pneumonitis because they have a decreased immune response to new inhaled antigens.

**C - Asthma** - Asthma can also manifest with chronic cough (often dry), dyspnea, and end-expiratory wheezing on examination. However, it typically affects younger patients (commonly children and teenagers), has an identifiable trigger, and is much more sudden in onset and episodic than this patient's history suggests. This patient's productive cough and significant smoking history make another option more likely.

**E - Adenocarcinoma** - Non-small cell lung cancer, a peripheral lung adenocarcinoma, is the most common cause of lung cancer. It also manifests with a cough and dyspnea. However, the lack of hemoptysis, fever, weight loss, and weakness in this patient makes another option more likely, even though he has a 30 pack-year smoking history. Additionally, while overall lung cancer is more prevalent in men (∼ 3:1), adenocarcinoma is much more common in women (∼ 1:6).

**F - Atypical pneumonia** - Atypical pneumonia, which is more common in elderly populations, can also have an indolent presentation with chronic cough and dyspnea. However, the cough is typically nonproductive and is usually accompanied by prominent extrapulmonary features such as a low-grade fever, fatigue, headaches, and myalgias.

**G - Bronchiectasis** - Bronchiectasis can also present with a chronic productive cough, dyspnea, and wheezing on auscultation. This patient's smoking history and occupational exposure do put him at risk of developing a bronchial obstruction. However, the sputum in this condition is typically mucopurulent, not white, as a result of an underlying local infection.

