### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Increased probability of rejecting the null hypothesis when it is truly false** - Increasing the sample size of the study by including the 400 patients would result in an increased probability of rejecting the null hypothesis when it is truly false (i.e., increased statistical power). In other words, the likelihood of concluding that there is no statistically significant association when there truly is one is decreased.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Decreased significance level of results** - The significance level (alpha) is a preset parameter of a statistical test. In most clinical studies, the convention is to set the significance level to 0.05. This parameter is not affected by changes in sample size.

**B - Wider confidence intervals of results** - The confidence interval of a study is a range that reflects the amount of uncertainty associated with the estimate. It is calculated using the confidence level (by convention, 95%), the standard deviation of the sample, and the number of patients in the sample. Increasing the sample size by including the 400 patients would make the confidence intervals narrower, not wider, indicating more precise results.

**C - Increased probability of committing a type II error** - A type II error refers to the probability of obtaining a falsely negative result. Increasing the sample population by 400 patients would result in increased statistical power and therefore lower the probability of a type II error.

**E - Increased external validity of results** - The external validity (i.e., generalizability) of a study refers to how applicable its findings are to the population at large. Although making the study population more representative of the general population may improve its external validity, increasing the sample size would not in itself have a direct effect on it.

**F - Decreased probability of seeing a difference between the groups when there truly is no difference** - A type I error occurs when a falsely positive result is obtained; a difference between the groups is measured when then there is not truly a difference. Every study sets a confidence level (most commonly 0.05) that represents the probability of type I error that the researcher is willing to tolerate. This is a predetermined parameter of the test and would therefore not be affected by increasing the sample size by 400 patients.

