### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Discontinue ceftriaxone and azithromycin** - Discontinuing ceftriaxone and azithromycin is the most appropriate next step in the management of this patient with characteristic findings of viral lower respiratory infection (e.g., bilateral reticulonodular opacities, consistently low PCT). PCT, which is produced by epithelial cells in response to bacterial toxins, is a sensitive indicator of bacterial infection. Consistently low PCT levels (< 0.25 μg/L) indicate viral pneumonia, which is not treated with antibiotics. Studies in which viral pneumonia is distinguished from bacterial pneumonia have found that PCT reduces the average length of antibiotic therapy by approx. 50% without increasing mortality.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Continue ceftriaxone and azithromycin to complete 7-day course** - Continuing ceftriaxone and azithromycin to complete a 7-day course would be appropriate for bacterial pneumonia, in which a viral etiology cannot be ruled out. However, empiric therapy should be stopped if PCT levels suggest a viral etiology.

**B - Start treatment with oseltamivir** - Oseltamivir is an effective treatment for acute influenza A and B that may be administered as empiric therapy to patients with suspected or confirmed influenza within 24–48 hours of symptom onset. Although oseltamivir is less effective after 48 hours of symptom onset, It is recommended regardless of the duration of symptoms in patients diagnosed with influenza who are hospitalized, have severe progressive symptoms, and/or are at high risk for influenza complications. While this hospitalized patient's fever, cough, myalgia, and known sick contacts are concerning for influenza, a diagnosis of influenza is needed before considering oseltamivir 48 hours after symptoms onset.

**D - Discontinue ceftriaxone and continue azithromycin to complete 7-day course** - Discontinuing ceftriaxone and continuing azithromycin to complete a 7-day course would not be appropriate because this patient's PCT levels and clinical improvement suggest a viral etiology. Furthermore, azithromycin monotherapy is not recommended in the management of community-acquired pneumonia due to high rates of bacterial resistance.

**E - Repeat sputum culture** - A repeat sputum culture would not be indicated in this patient, who appears to be improving. In addition, a sputum culture may yield confounding results, since antibiotic treatment has already begun.

**F - Repeat x-ray of the chest** - A repeat chest x-ray would not be indicated in this patient, who appears to be improving. Findings on chest x-ray often persist despite clinical improvement and resolving symptoms.

