### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Chest tube insertion in the fifth intercostal space at the midaxillary line** - Inserting a chest tube in the fifth intercostal space at the midaxillary line is the treatment of choice in a patient with a hemothorax. Although this location is the most common insertion site, chest tubes placed to drain fluid may be more effective if inserted one or two spaces lower. Chest tubes should be directed posteriorly for optimal drainage of fluid (i.e., blood) to improve ventilation in the affected lung.

Image File: 1401-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59030c9fc0bcd.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Admission to the ICU and observation** - Most patients with a hemothorax will require admission to the ICU. However, a hemothorax, however small, must be drained immediately because blood in the pleural cavity may clot if not evacuated, resulting in a trapped lung (impaired lung expansion due to the clot) or an empyema (due to clot infection).

**B - Needle thoracostomy in the second intercostal space at the midclavicular line** - If placement of a chest tube is not feasible, insertion of a needle in the second intercostal space at the midclavicular line is used as an emergency treatment for tension pneumothorax because it allows the trapped air in the pleural cavity to escape. Tension pneumothorax may develop if a rib fracture causes a pulmonary laceration that fails to seal. It manifests with chest pain, dyspnea, decreased breath sounds, and contralateral deviation of the trachea, which are seen in this patient. However, a patient with a pneumothorax would have hyperresonant lungs fields on percussion instead of dullness on the affected site. Also, a chest x-ray would show increased radiolucency, hemidiaphragmatic elevation, and decreased lung markings rather than increased opacity.

**C - Needle thoracentesis in the eighth intercostal space at the posterior axillary line** - Needle thoracocentesis in the eighth intercostal space at the posterior axillary line, with the patient in a supine position, is used for diagnostic pleural taps. Needle aspiration is not the treatment of choice for a hemothorax because a drain with a larger caliber is required for complete evacuation of blood from the pleural cavity. Incomplete evacuation of blood may lead to clot formation and subsequently a trapped lung (impaired lung expansion due to the clot) or an empyema (due to clot infection).

**D - Emergency thoracotomy** - In a patient with a hemothorax, urgent thoracotomy is indicated if more than 1500 mL of blood has been drained from the pleural cavity, if the rate of blood loss exceeds 200 mL/hour for 2–4 hours, and/or if multiple transfusions are required. However, thoracotomy is not the first-line therapy because a different procedure should first be employed to improve lung expansion and to assess the amount of blood loss.

**E - Pericardiocentesis** - Pericardiocentesis is the treatment of choice for cardiac tamponade, which can result from hemopericardium following thoracic trauma and manifests with dyspnea and chest pain. However, a hemopericardium usually develops following penetrating injuries to the chest wall and is unlikely in a patient with low-energy blunt chest trauma. Moreover, this patient has none of the classical clinical manifestations of cardiac tamponade, which include low systolic blood pressure (due to decreased stroke volume), distention of neck veins (due to impaired right ventricular filling), and/or muffled heart sounds. Tracheal deviation and increased lung opacity are not associated with isolated cardiac tamponade. Instead, a chest x-ray is likely to reveal an enlarged cardiac silhouette.

