### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Periodontal infection** - Most lung abscesses are caused by aspiration of oral anaerobes, which typically colonize the oral cavity and cause periodontal diseases. The most common oral anaerobic bacteria include Peptostreptococcus, Prevotella, Bacteroides, and Fusobacterium. Risk factors for aspiration include dysphagia, esophageal motility disorders, and altered mental status (e.g., caused by sedation, intoxication, or seizures).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Recent hospitalization** - Recent hospitalization puts patients at risk for nosocomial infections. A nosocomial lung abscess is most commonly caused by aerobes such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Acinetobacter baumannii, Nocardia species, and Staphylococcus aureus. The isolation of anaerobic organisms such as Peptostreptococcus and Prevotella suggest a different cause for the lung abscess.

**B - Cave exploration** - Exposure to bat droppings during cave exploration is associated with Histoplasmosis, a dimorphic fungus that can cause pneumonia or, in rare cases, a lung abscess. Cave exploration is not associated with the development of lung abscesses due to anaerobes such as Peptostreptococcus or Prevotella.

**C - Intravenous drug use** - Users of intravenous drugs are at increased risk of developing lung abscesses due to septic emboli from the skin or from the tricuspid valve (right-sided infective endocarditis). However, an IV drug-related lung abscess is most commonly caused by Staphylococcus aureus, not anaerobes such as Peptostreptococcus or Prevotella.

**D - Crowded housing situation** - A crowded housing situation can lead to the spread of many infectious diseases among inhabitants (e.g., viral illness, pneumonia, tuberculosis, skin and soft tissue infections). While some of this patient's features (fever, fatigue, cough, and cavitary lesions) might raise concern for tuberculosis, she has not had any night sweats, weight loss, or hemoptysis. The presence of Peptostreptococcus and Prevotella species in the lung cavity suggests another disease process.

**F - Contaminated air conditioning system** - The development of a pneumonia or lung abscess after contact with a contaminated water source (e.g., mist or vapor from an air conditioning system) is associated with Legionella, not anaerobes such as Peptostreptococcus or Prevotella.

