### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Increased pleural vascular permeability** - Parapneumonic pleural effusions, as seen here, are typically exudative. Pneumonia is associated with pleural inflammation, which increases pleural vascular permeability, causing capillary leakage of exudate. Although exudative and transudative pleural effusions are usually differentiated by Light's criteria, a pleural fluid pH of 7.3 also suggests an exudative rather than transudative effusion, which typically has a pH of 7.45–7.55. In exudative pleural effusions, the anaerobic metabolic activity of both bacteria and leukocytes accumulating in the pleural fluid transforms glucose into lactate, which leads to a decrease in pleural fluid pH. Early antibiotic treatment is indicated to prevent progression to complicated effusion and empyema.

Image File: 1410-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e8f3a11aad83.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Increased pulmonary capillary pressure** - Increased pulmonary capillary pressure is the underlying mechanism of pleural effusions in individuals with left heart failure. The inability of the heart to pump blood forward causes a backup of blood into the left atrium and the pulmonary veins. This backup increases the hydrostatic pressure in the pulmonary vasculature (pulmonary capillary wedge pressure), leading to pulmonary edema and transudative pleural effusions. Transudative effusions typically have a pH of 7.45–7.55, whereas this patient's effusion has a pH of 7.3. Moreover, signs and symptoms of left-sided heart failure would be expected bilaterally, unlike the unilateral parapneumonic effusion seen here.

**C - Intrapleural accumulation of blood** - Intrapleural accumulation of blood is usually only seen in severe types of pneumonia, such as necrotizing pneumonia, which presents with severe sepsis and hemoptysis. This patient has a nonbloody and uncomplicated parapneumonic effusion, as suggested by the pH of 7.3. Nontraumatic hemothorax most commonly results from spontaneous pneumothorax (due to the shearing of adhesions between the parietal and visceral pleura), vascular disease (e.g., ruptured aortic aneurysm, intrathoracic arterial dissection), or malignancy (spontaneous tumor bleeding). COPD, which this patient has, may be complicated by pneumothorax, and his smoking history increases his risk for lung cancer. However, the chest x-ray shows no signs of either condition.

**D - Decreased plasma oncotic pressure** - Decreased plasma oncotic pressure is the underlying pathomechanism of pleural effusions in cirrhosis and/or nephrotic syndrome. Both conditions lead to reduced serum concentrations of albumin, the main serum protein that maintains intravascular oncotic pressure. Consequently, fluid extravasates into the interstitial space, resulting in a transudative effusion with a pH of 7.45–7.55. This patient's pleural effusion has a pH of 7.3. Furthermore, although he has a history of alcoholic cirrhosis, he has no symptoms of either condition.

**E - Transdiaphragmatic fluid movement** - Transdiaphragmatic fluid movement causes hepatic hydrothorax, a pulmonary complication of cirrhosis that most commonly is right-sided and manifests with dyspnea. Although this patient has a history of alcoholic cirrhosis, he has no signs of ascites (e.g., abdominal distention), which would be expected in this condition. Moreover, hepatic hydrothorax is a transudative effusion, which usually has a pH of 7.45–7.55. This patient's pleural fluid pH of 7.3 suggests an exudative effusion.

**F - Impaired pulmonary lymphatic flow** - Impaired lymphatic flow results in chylothorax, an exudative effusion. Chylothorax is commonly caused by thoracic duct obstruction due to malignancy (e.g., NHL, lung cancer) or thoracic duct injury (e.g., due to thoracic surgery or severe trauma). Although this patient's history of smoking increases his risk of lung cancer, he lacks systemic features of malignancy such as weight loss. Moreover, he has no history of recent trauma or surgery.

