### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - High-resolution CT scan of the chest** - A high-resolution CT scan of the chest is the confirmatory test for bronchiectasis. Findings include dilated bronchi with thickened walls and a possible signet ring appearance, tram track lines (i.e., parallel linear opacities caused by thickened walls of dilated bronchi), lower lobe cysts, and honeycombing. The appropriate treatment for exacerbations of bronchiectasis, when sputum culture information is unavailable, is empiric therapy with a fluoroquinolone (e.g., levofloxacin, moxifloxacin).

Image File: 1411-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6077f2768c06d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bronchoalveolar lavage** - Bronchoalveolar lavage is used to obtain specimens to test for various infectious, inflammatory, and immunologic conditions. It does not play a role in the diagnosis of bronchiectasis.

**B - Sweat chloride test** - The sweat chloride test does not play a role in the diagnosis of bronchiectasis. However, it is used for the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis (CF), which is the most common cause of bronchiectasis. This patient lacks many typical manifestations of CF, including chronic sinusitis and pancreatic insufficiency. In addition, CF is most commonly diagnosed during newborn screening or symptomatic presentation in infancy or childhood. The median life expectancy is ∼ 39 years, and it is rarely diagnosed in adulthood.

**C - Mycobacterial sputum culture** - Mycobacterial sputum culture is used to diagnose pulmonary infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Immunosuppression (e.g., due to mycophenolate mofetil and prednisone therapy) is a risk factor for pulmonary tuberculosis (TB), which can cause a chronic productive cough with hemoptysis, dyspnea, and digital clubbing. However, other features of TB include fever, weight loss, and night sweats, none of which are seen in this patient. In addition, the treatment for tuberculosis is long-term antimycobacterial drug (RIPE therapy); symptoms of tuberculosis would be unlikely to improve with intermittent antibiotic therapy.

**D - X-ray of the chest** - Chest x-ray is an appropriate initial test for evaluating patients who are suspected of having bronchiectasis. However, this imaging modality is nondiagnostic. It is neither sensitive nor specific for bronchiectasis, and patients with classic clinical manifestations may have a normal chest x-ray. Radiographic findings that suggest a diagnosis of bronchiectasis include tram track lines (i.e., parallel linear opacities caused by thickened walls of dilated bronchi), ring shadows (from cyst formation), and peripheral opacities.

**F - Pulmonary function tests** - Pulmonary function tests (PFTs) may be abnormal in patients with bronchiectasis, typically showing an obstructive pattern. However, PFTs are neither sensitive nor specific for bronchiectasis and, therefore, not the most appropriate tests to confirm the diagnosis in this patient.

