### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Apical subpleural cyst** - This patient presents with secondary spontaneous pneumothorax that is likely due to the rupture of a dilated apical subpleural cyst. Approximately 3–4% of all patients with cystic fibrosis will have spontaneous pneumothorax, and this risk increases to 20% in patients older than 18 years. Air trapping is the result of chronic inflammation, bronchiectasis, and bronchial obstruction caused by the accumulation of thick mucus. Air trapping increases the pressure in already damaged alveolar tissue and this accumulation of pressure can lead to cyst rupture and thus pneumothorax.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bronchial hyperresponsiveness** - Bronchial hyperresponsiveness can be seen in asthma, a form of reversible obstructive lung disease. An acute asthma exacerbation can manifest with shortness of breath, wheezing, and chest discomfort, which are seen in this patient. However, in asthma, wheezing is typically bilateral and diffuse. Moreover, this patient has no history of asthma, and bronchial hyperresponsiveness would not explain her diminished right breath sounds and decreased tactile fremitus.

**B - Inflammation of costal cartilage** - Inflammation of the costal cartilage is seen in patients with costochondritis, which is a musculoskeletal cause of chest pain. Although costochondritis can manifest with pleuritic chest pain, which is seen in this patient, the pain is usually well localized and worsened by movement and palpation. In addition, costochondritis would not account for this patient's abnormal findings on lung auscultation.

**C - Infection with gram-negative coccobacilli** - Pneumonia caused by infection with gram-negative coccobacilli, e.g., Haemophilus influenzae, can manifest with rapid onset of shortness of breath and pleuritic chest pain, which are seen in this patient. However, she lacks typical signs of infection such as fever and a productive cough. Although breath sounds are commonly diminished over the affected lung field in pneumonia, increased, not decreased, tactile fremitus would be expected due to parenchymal consolidation. Pulmonary exacerbations in patients with cystic fibrosis are often associated with bacterial infection; however, the most common pathogens are gram-negative rods such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Burkholderia cepacia, as well as Staphylococcus aureus.

**E - Pulmonary parenchymal fibrosis** - Pulmonary parenchymal fibrosis is seen in patients with interstitial lung disease (ILD). ILD is a chronic and progressive inflammatory process that manifests with inspiratory crackles, wheezing, and digital clubbing. Although this patient does have digital clubbing and pulmonary wheezing, interstitial lung disease would not explain her acute presentation or diminished right breath sounds and decreased tactile fremitus.

**F - Increased pulmonary capillary permeability** - Increased pulmonary capillary permeability can cause pulmonary edema and abnormal breath sounds on pulmonary auscultation. However, pulmonary edema typically causes bibasilar crackles and bronchial breath sounds, as opposed to wheezing and unilaterally diminished breath sounds. Moreover, tactile fremitus would be normal or increased, not decreased.

**G - Pulmonary artery thromboembolism** - Pulmonary artery thromboembolism often manifests with sudden-onset shortness of breath and pleuritic chest pain, which are seen in this patient. Physical examination may reveal decreased breath sounds and tactile fremitus, especially if secondary pleural effusion is present. However, with a Wells score of 0, this patient is at low risk for thromboembolic disease.

