### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Normal perfusion with bilateral ventilation defects** - Areas with normal perfusion and no ventilation (ventilation-perfusion mismatch) are seen in patients with cardiogenic pulmonary edema. Elevated pulmonary venous pressures (secondary to decreased left ventricular function) results in increased amounts of intra-alveolar fluid, which leads to impaired alveolar ventilation. Insufficiently oxygenated blood from parts of the lungs that are not ventilated mixes with oxygenated blood from ventilated parts of the lungs, resulting in an overall decrease in PaO2, increased A-a gradient, and systemic hypoxemia.

Image File: 1416-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6058a5aec265f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increased apical ventilation with normal perfusion bilaterally** - A high apical ventilation-perfusion ratio is a physiologic finding in healthy lungs under resting conditions. At baseline, the lung apices receive less perfusion due to gravity, resulting in a V/Q ratio of around 3 in those areas. In situations of high oxygen demand (e.g., physical exercise), apical perfusion can be increased. This patient, however, shows signs of pulmonary edema.

**B - Normal ventilation with multiple, bilateral perfusion defects** - The pattern of normal ventilation with multiple perfusion defects can be seen in patients with pulmonary emboli. Blood clots obstruct lung arteries and subsequently cause decreased perfusion. As there is no airway obstruction, ventilation is maintained. This patient's dyspnea could indicate pulmonary embolism. However, his x-ray findings and the history of a recent myocardial infarction suggests pulmonary edema.

**C - Matched ventilation and perfusion bilaterally** - A matched ventilation-perfusion ratio bilaterally (e.g., V/Q = 1) can be seen with either decrease in both ventilation and perfusion or increase in both ventilation and perfusion. Bilateral increase in V/Q can be seen with exercise, during which there is physiologic vasodilation of the apical capillaries, resulting in increased perfusion of the apices with matched ventilation. A bilateral decrease in both ventilation and perfusion can be seen in patients with emphysema due to the destruction of both the alveoli and the capillary bed. Other possibilities include the combination of two separate conditions, of which one causes alveolar hypoventilation (e.g., opioid intoxication) and the other causes pulmonary hypoperfusion (e.g., right-sided heart failure, severe hypotension). This patient shows signs of pulmonary edema, which would present with different findings.

**E - Normal perfusion with decreased ventilation at the right base** - Normal perfusion with focal areas of decreased ventilation can be caused by localized inflammatory processes, such as pneumonia, bronchial obstruction, or malignancy. Patients with pneumonia have increased intra-alveolar fluid in some parts of the lungs, causing a decreased ventilation of those areas. This patient's dyspnea could be a sign of pneumonia but his x-ray findings and the history of a recent myocardial infarction suggest pulmonary edema.

