### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Oral prednisone and itraconazole therapy** - Oral prednisone in combination with itraconazole for several weeks to months is currently recommended as the first-line therapy for allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA), which this patient has. Monotherapy with glucocorticoids may also be considered for the first episode of acute ABPA. Most cases of ABPA affect patients with preexisting structural bronchopulmonary abnormalities, such as asthma (as seen here) or cystic fibrosis (CF). In patients with bronchial asthma, there should be concern for ABPA if respiratory symptoms worsen despite treatment and features of bronchiectasis (e.g., productive cough with thick brown sputum, thickened airways with irregular cystic opacities on chest x-ray) develop along with an elevated ESR, eosinophilia, and very high concentrations of serum IgE. The diagnosis of ABPA is confirmed by skin antigen testing or measuring Aspergillus-specific IgE.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Oral rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol therapy** - Combined therapy with oral rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol is given during the initiation phase of active tuberculosis (TB) infection. This condition often manifests with a blood-tinged productive cough lasting > 3 weeks, which this patient has. Although she has a preexisting lung disease and currently uses inhaled corticosteroids, which increases her susceptibility to infection with a respiratory pathogen, she has no risk factors for exposure to TB (e.g., travel to an endemic country, confirmed TB contacts, homelessness) and no characteristic constitutional symptoms (e.g., fever, weight loss, night sweats). Moreover, this patient's negative tuberculin skin test and x-ray findings make the diagnosis unlikely. Finally, eosinophilia and elevated IgE levels are not typical features of active TB.

**C - Oral prednisone and montelukast sodium therapy** - Therapy with oral prednisone and montelukast is added to the drug regimen for chronic asthma when severe persistent asthma is diagnosed. This patient's daily cough and FEV1 of 75%, however, indicate moderate persistent asthma, for which her current pharmacotherapy is appropriate. Moreover, the chest x-ray and laboratory findings suggest another condition that requires different treatment.

**D - Intravenous methylprednisolone, oral cyclophosphamide and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole therapy** - Therapy with intravenous methylprednisolone, oral cyclophosphamide, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is given to patients with eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Churg-Strauss syndrome), which can manifest with exacerbation of asthmatic symptoms, eosinophilia, and elevated IgE levels, all of which are seen here. Churg-Strauss syndrome also affects the gastrointestinal tract, skin, upper airways, and/or kidneys, and patients typically present with signs and symptoms that reflect the involvement of these organs (e.g., skin nodules, palpable purpura, nasal congestion and/or rhinorrhea, abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, and elevated plasma creatinine or hematuria). ´

**E - Oral ivermectin therapy** - Therapy with oral ivermectin is indicated for helminthic lung infections (e.g., strongyloidiasis, ancylostomiasis, necatoriasis, ascariasis), which can manifest with a dry cough, wheezing, eosinophilia, and elevated IgE levels, all of which are seen here. This constellation of symptoms is known as Loeffler syndrome. These helminths, however, are prevalent in the tropics and enter the host via the skin (most commonly via the feet) or the fecal-oral route (via contaminated food) whereas this patient has no history of recent travel. Moreover, chest x-ray typically shows multiple oval opacities that can reach up to several centimeters in size in both lung fields rather than the x-ray findings seen here.

**F - Oral prednisone and azithromycin therapy** - Therapy with oral prednisone and azithromycin would be added to this patient's drug regimen for an acute COPD exacerbation, which can manifest with an increased frequency and severity of chronic cough (in this case, an initial cough 3–4 times per week that now occurs daily). However, the characteristic chronic cough in COPD is consistently productive in the mornings rather than intermittent and dry, like this patient's initial cough. Moreover, a chest x-ray in a patient with COPD characteristically shows emphysematous changes with parenchymal bullae or subpleural blebs rather than the findings seen here, and eosinophilia and elevated IgE levels are not typical.

