### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Administration of intravenous hydroxycobalamin** - Patients with inhalation injury should receive empiric treatment for cyanide toxicity (even before laboratory confirmation). Along with supportive measures, intravenous hydroxycobalamin is the first-line antidote because it acts rapidly, does not affect tissue oxygenation, and has minimal adverse effects. Hydroxycobalamin binds cyanide directly and is then excreted in urine. Sodium thiosulfate also detoxifies cyanide by turning it into a renally-excreted form and is an additional component of the empiric treatment of smoke inhalation; however, it does not act as rapidly as hydroxycobalamin.

Another strategy to treat cyanide toxicity involves the induction of methemoglobinemia (e.g., with amyl nitrite, sodium nitrite, or 4-dimethylaminophenol [4-DMAP]). Cyanide causes less toxicity when bound to methemoglobin than when bound to the mitochondrial cytochrome complex. However, because of the risk of worsening tissue hypoxia, this therapy should not be used in patients with inhalation injury unless concomitant carbon monoxide toxicity has been excluded.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administration of intravenous dimercaprol** - Intravenous dimercaprol is a therapy for metal toxicity (e.g., arsenic, mercury, lead, or gold toxicity). It does not play a role in the treatment of cyanide toxicity.

**B - Hyperbaric oxygen therapy** - Hyperbaric oxygen therapy may effectively treat cyanide toxicity, but it is not recommended because there is a lack of conclusive evidence on its effects. Hyperbaric oxygen is the first-line therapy for carbon monoxide toxicity. Smoke inhalation injury commonly causes carbon monoxide poisoning, which can manifest similarly to cyanide poisoning, with headache, confusion, nausea, vomiting, and, in severe cases, loss of consciousness. However, this patient has a normal carboxyhemoglobin level on arterial blood gas analysis and therefore does not require treatment for carbon monoxide toxicity at this time.

**C - Administration of methylene blue** - Methylene blue is the treatment of choice for methemoglobinemia. The drug acts by reducing the ferric iron (Fe3+) of methemoglobin, which is unable to bind oxygen, back to the ferrous iron (Fe2+) of hemoglobin. Methemoglobinemia typically manifests in patients with cyanosis in the setting of normal PO2 and a history of exposure to an oxidizing agent such as nitrates or dapsone. This patient has no history of such exposure, and his PO2 is decreased. Methylene blue was also used in the treatment of cyanide poisoning, but it is no longer used for such treatment because it can release free cyanide and thereby worsen cyanide toxicity.

**E - Administration of N-acetylcysteine** - N-acetylcysteine is an antioxidant used to restore depleted hepatic glutathione in patients with acetaminophen toxicity. The drug should ideally be administered as soon as overdose is suspected and is probably effective up to 48 hours after acetaminophen ingestion. This patient has no history of recent acetaminophen overdose, and N-acetylcysteine does not play a role in the treatment of cyanide toxicity.

