### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Perform laryngoscopy** - Laryngotracheal stenosis should be suspected in individuals who develop subacute or progressively worsening dyspnea, stridor, and signs of respiratory distress (i.e., tachypnea, accessory muscle use) in the weeks or months following extubation, particularly in patients with prolonged intubation (> 7 days). Pressure from the endotracheal tube causes local tissue ischemia, inflammation, necrosis, and fibrosis, leading to laryngeal stenosis, while an overinflated cuff will cause tracheal stenosis through a similar mechanism. Pulmonary function testing may demonstrate fixed upper airway obstruction, but definitive diagnosis requires laryngoscopy.

Image File: 1422-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a544f48d24dc.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Measure total serum IgE concentration** - Progressively worsening dyspnea in a patient with a history of poorly-controlled asthma now presenting with signs of respiratory distress (tachypnea, accessory muscle use, low oxygen saturation) should raise suspicion for an exacerbation of asthma. However, asthma is a lower airway disease; it manifests with wheezing rather than the inspiratory stridor seen here, which indicates upper airway obstruction. Moreover, although total serum IgE concentration has been shown to correlate with disease activity, it is not routinely used to diagnose exacerbations. This patient's lack of response to nebulized bronchodilators and systemic corticosteroids further reduces the likelihood of an asthma diagnosis; her recent history of prolonged intubation suggests another condition.

**C - Obtain respiratory viral panel** - Dyspnea, inspiratory stridor, and signs of respiratory distress (i.e., tachypnea, accessory muscle use) may be seen in upper respiratory illnesses (URI) such as influenza. However, additional symptoms, including low-grade fever, rhinitis, and cough, would be expected. Moreover, most URIs are acute illnesses that typically resolve within a week; this patient's slowly progressive dyspnea and recent history of prolonged intubation make another condition more likely.

**D - Obtain x-ray of the chest** - A chest x-ray may be helpful to diagnose an upper airway obstruction by a radiopaque foreign body, which may also present with dyspnea, stridor, and bilaterally decreased lung sounds. However, tracheal foreign body aspiration most commonly occurs in children under 10 years old; it is extremely rare in middle-aged adults without a swallowing dysfunction or an impaired gag reflex. Moreover, the most common symptom is coughing, which this patient does not have.

**E - Measure serum C1 esterase inhibitor concentration** - Worsening dyspnea and inspiratory stridor may be seen in hereditary angioedema, which can be diagnosed with a low serum C1 esterase inhibitor concentration. However, angioedema causes acute and rapidly worsening dyspnea and inspiratory stridor due to laryngeal edema, while this patient presents with slowly worsening dyspnea. Moreover, additional symptoms, including and abdominal issues (e.g., colicky pain, vomiting, diarrhea) and swelling of the face, extremities, and genitalia, would be expected. Additionally, hereditary angioedema typically manifests in childhood or adolescence with a family history of hereditary angioedema, which is not consistent with this patient's history.

**F - Obtain sputum culture** - Sputum cultures may be helpful for diagnosing and guiding antibiotic therapy in patients with suspected bacterial chest infections (pneumonia, bronchitis, TB), which may present with progressive dyspnea and signs of respiratory distress, including tachypnea, accessory muscle use, and low oxygen saturation. This patient lacks fever and productive cough, the other main features of a chest infection, so another condition is more likely.

