### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Oxygen toxicity** - For initial treatment of ARDS, a high FiO2 (e.g., 0.9 (90%)) and PEEP (e.g., 14 cm H2O) are often chosen to ensure adequate oxygenation. However, while the target pO2 in ARDS is 55-80 mm Hg, this patient's arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis shows a pO2 of 140 mm Hg, suggesting excessive oxygenation. Sustained oxygen supplementation with a FiO2 > 0.6 (60%) increases the risk of developing oxygen toxicity, which is associated with higher mortality in critically ill patients. Hyperoxemia increases this patient's risk of developing absorption atelectasis and ventilator-associated pneumonia and may exacerbate his lung damage (e.g., pulmonary edema, hemorrhage, fibrosis) and hypercapnia (oxygen-induced hypercapnia). The current PEEP > 5 cm H2O is adequate to allow for alveolar recruitment; the FiO2, in contrast, should be reduced to the lowest possible fraction that provides sufficient oxygenation.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cardiogenic pulmonary edema** - ARDS, which this patient most likely has, is typically associated with noncardiogenic rather than cardiogenic pulmonary edema. The inflammatory reaction that occurs in ARDS causes diffuse alveolar damage and increased pulmonary capillary permeability and leakage, resulting in pulmonary edema with normal capillary wedge pressure (noncardiogenic). This patient's current ventilator settings may further exacerbate the parenchymal injury and consequent noncardiogenic pulmonary edema caused by ARDS.

**B - Cicatrization atelectasis** - Cicatrization atelectasis is typically caused by parenchymal scarring due to chronic destructive lung conditions (e.g., tuberculosis, sarcoidosis, fibrosis secondary to radiation therapy). Although some individuals with ARDS develop interstitial pulmonary fibrosis at a later stage than seen here, ARDS and drowning incidents more commonly lead to acute adhesive atelectasis due to surfactant deficiency. This patient's mechanical ventilation settings predispose him to absorption atelectasis but not to cicatrization atelectasis.

**C - Respiratory alkalosis** - Respiratory alkalosis is a potential early complication of ARDS (due to initial hyperventilation in response to respiratory distress) and may also be induced by mechanical ventilation if tidal volume and ventilatory rate are set too high. The tidal volume and ventilatory rate seen here, however, allow for permissive hypercapnia and are appropriate for lung-protective ventilation. This patient's arterial blood gas analysis indicates respiratory acidosis (pH of 7.33, pCO2 of 47 mmHg).

**D - Bronchopulmonary dysplasia** - Bronchopulmonary dysplasia is caused by barotrauma, oxygen toxicity, and inflammation associated with prolonged mechanical ventilation and oxygen therapy. However, this condition is primarily seen in premature infants (mainly infants < 32 weeks) due to lung immaturity; it would not be expected in this patient.

