### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Asthma** - A history of episodic dyspnea and cough that worsens at night and with exercise is highly suggestive of asthma. A normal chest x-ray, normal vital parameters when asymptomatic, and an auscultatory wheeze further support the clinical diagnosis of asthma. A history of other allergies (e.g., peanut allergy) raises suspicion of an atopic predisposition, making allergic, i.e. extrinsic asthma, which typically presents before 7 years of age, the most likely cause of this patient's symptoms.

Image File: 1426-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b1fd3fab8b12.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cystic fibrosis** - Patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) may present later in childhood with respiratory symptoms such as dyspnea, coughing, and wheezing. However, the respiratory symptoms of CF are not episodic and the cough is often productive (due to pneumonia, bronchiectasis). Also, CF patients have a history of gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., meconium ileus, steatorrhea, failure to thrive), sinusitis, and pancreatic disease (pancreatitis, pancreatic insufficiency) during infancy, none of which is apparent in this patient.

**B - Foreign body aspiration** - Patients with foreign body aspiration (FBA) usually present very acutely with choking or coughing, dyspnea, and severe respiratory distress. Patients may also present days to weeks after the aspiration if the aspirated foreign body was small, got lodged in the lower airways, or if the initial choking went unnoticed. Such patients may present with recurrent cough and dyspnea, as seen in this child. However, pulmonary examination usually demonstrates wheezing or crepitus localized to the affected lobe rather than the scattered wheezing seen here. Also, the episodic presentation and nocturnal and exertion-induced exacerbation of symptoms in this child are suggestive of an alternative diagnosis.

Image File: 1426-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5de1258be87c5.jpg

**D - Cardiac failure** - Although children with cardiac failure can present with respiratory symptoms such as exertional dyspnea and wheezing (due to pulmonary venous congestion), they would also have additional cardiac findings on examination (e.g., tachycardia, tachypnea, rales on pulmonary auscultation, an S3 or S4 gallop, and/or features of the underlying cardiac pathology). Also, in patients with heart failure, the chest x-ray often shows cardiomegaly or increased pulmonary vascular markings.

Image File: 1426-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ffd744ec872e.jpg

**E - Bronchiolitis** - While bronchiolitis can cause shortness of breath and is common during winter months, it usually affects children during early infancy (3–4 months of age) and is uncommon after 2 years of age. Also, it is not episodic, but presents acutely, usually preceded by symptoms of an upper respiratory infection (e.g., low-grade fever/rhinorrhea), and patients often have signs of respiratory distress (e.g., tachypnea, intercostal retractions) at presentation. This 4-year-old child has episodic dyspnea and no evidence of acute respiratory infection.

**F - Primary ciliary dyskinesia** - Patients with primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) usually presents during infancy with productive cough (due to recurrent respiratory tract infections and/or bronchiectasis) and recurrent sinusitis. The poor ciliary function also causes chronic otitis media and conductive hearing loss in many patients with PCD. This child has episodic dyspnea, dry cough, and no other clinical features of PCD, suggesting a different diagnosis.

**G - Tracheomalacia** - Congenital tracheomalacia is a potential cause of stridor and brassy cough and usually occurs in children < 2 years of age, after which most cases spontaneously resolve. Although the symptoms of tracheomalacia may be episodic, this 4-year-old child was asymptomatic until recently, has scattered wheeze on examination, and does not present with stridor.

