### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Observer bias** - Observer bias (otherwise known as the observer-expectancy effect) occurs if the researcher's or observer's belief in the efficiency of a treatment causes them to unconsciously influence the results of the study. The quote, “I knew from the start that this program was going to be life-changing for my son” suggests cognitive bias. The expectation that social interactions would improve after the social skills training sessions may have unconsciously led to higher ratings of social behavior, thus contributing to the two-fold increase in social interaction scores. The high demand for the social skills training program among the parents, culminating in the waiting list, may also indicate a potential cognitive bias in many of the parents of the participants.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Social desirability bias** - Social desirability bias refers to selective disclosure or suppression of information by subjects because they perceive them as social stigmas. Here, the social interactivity of the children was rated on a scale that did not require disclosure of information.

**B - Recall bias** - Recall bias arises when some participants have more accurate and/or complete recollections of events than others. Here, the subjects were observed during a videotaped social play exercise and scored on their social interaction skills, which does not require recollection of events.

**C - Hawthorne effect** - The Hawthorne effect is the tendency of study subjects to modify their behavior when they are aware of being monitored, which is quite unlikely to have been the case in these children with autism. The Hawthorne effect is not the best explanation for the results of this study.

**E - Sampling bias** - Sampling bias occurs when a nonrandomized sample is used in a study that is not representative of the target population of interest, thus contributing to false assumptions about exposures and outcomes. While participants recruited from autism support groups may not be representative of the autism population at large, there is no evidence that the results obtained in this study were due to sampling bias.

**F - Confounding bias** - Confounding bias occurs when a variable that has not been factored into the study (the confounder) correlates with both the dependent and independent variables. There is no evidence to indicate confounding bias in the context of this study.

