### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Exploratory laparotomy** - An exploratory laparotomy is indicated in patients with a penetrating abdominal wound who are hemodynamically unstable. Gunshot wounds commonly injure the small bowel, colon, and liver, and a FAST exam cannot rule out all sources of abdominal bleeding. During expiration, the dome of the diaphragm may reach as high as the fourth intercostal space on the right and the fifth intercostal space on the left. For this reason, any penetrating injury below this level is treated as if it involves both the thoracic and abdominal cavities. Although this patient may also have a diaphragmatic and/or pulmonary injury, as indicated by the right lower lobe opacities seen on chest x-ray, this is unlikely to be responsible for his hypotension and tachycardia. Given the site of injury and equivocal FAST exam, an exploratory laparotomy is indicated to assess for potential intra-abdominal injuries that may be the cause of his hemodynamic instability.

Image File: 1431-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d6632fcb74e3.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Chest tube insertion in the fifth intercostal space at the midaxillary line** - Insertion of a chest tube into the fifth intercostal space at the midaxillary line is indicated for hemothorax. Hemothorax may develop as a result of a gunshot wound and manifests with chest pain, dyspnea, decreased breath sounds, dullness to percussion, and, in some cases, hemorrhagic shock. However, this patient has a normal pulmonary examination and absence of any signs of hemothorax on chest x-ray, making this diagnosis unlikely.

**B - Needle thoracostomy in the second intercostal space at the midclavicular line** - Insertion of a needle into the second intercostal space at the midclavicular line is a technique used for emergency decompression of tension pneumothorax. Tension pneumothorax may develop as a result of a gunshot wound and manifests with chest pain, dyspnea, unilateral decreased breath sounds, contralateral deviation of the trachea, and hemodynamic instability (hypotension, tachycardia, etc). However, this patient has a normal pulmonary examination and no signs of pneumothorax on chest x-ray.

**C - CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis** - CT scan is used to assess patients with penetrating abdominal wounds if they are stable on examination. It helps detect intra-abdominal bleeding and assess the extent of the injury. A CT scan is not indicated in this hemodynamically unstable patient because there is a risk that his state may worsen in the time it takes to obtain the scan. Patients without signs of peritonitis, evisceration, or hemodynamic instability may undergo CT prior to surgical intervention.

**D - Local wound exploration** - Local wound exploration can be used to evaluate the depth and tract of stab wounds and to determine if peritoneal violation has occurred. However, it would not be appropriate in a hemodynamically unstable patient.

**F - Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery** - In the setting of penetrating chest trauma, video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) is mainly used to diagnose and treat suspected diaphragmatic injuries in hemodynamically stable patients. Injury to the diaphragm may result in a variety of features (based on whether it is penetrating or blunt), but patients usually present with ventilatory issues such as dyspnea and decreased breath sounds. In this patient, the location of injury and opacities seen in the right lower lobe on chest x-ray suggest a diaphragmatic and/or pulmonary injury. However, in a patient who is hemodynamically unstable and shows no clinical signs of a thoracic injury (normal pulmonary examination, no signs of severe injury on chest x-ray), another procedure is indicated that is more likely to allow for identification and treatment of the source of shock.

Image File: 1431-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59030c9fc0bcd.jpg

**G - Diagnostic laparoscopy** - Diagnostic laparoscopy is indicated in the setting of abdominal trauma when no definitive source of bleeding is identified on imagining (e.g., FAST, CT scan) and an intra-abdominal injury is suspected. It is especially useful for inspecting the diaphragm and determining the feasibility of nonoperative management of isolated solid organ injury. However, this procedure is reserved for hemodynamically stable patients and is therefore not indicated in this patient.

