### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Bronchiectasis** - This patient presents with typical symptoms of bronchiectasis, including a chronic cough, dyspnea, hemoptysis, copious amounts of sputum, and crackles on auscultation. The exacerbation of symptoms by acute respiratory tract infections, as seen here, is a further common feature of this condition. Evidence of fibrosis of the bronchial walls (tram track lines) on chest x-ray, the best initial test, reinforces the diagnosis. The diagnosis of bronchiectasis is confirmed with a CT scan. In addition to tram track lines and honeycombing, findings include dilated bronchi and, in some cases, a signet-ring appearance.

Image File: 1432-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94eb7005.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Chronic bronchitis** - Chronic bronchitis is caused mainly by smoking and presents with a chronic, productive cough that is often worse in the mornings. While this patient's symptoms are similar, chronic bronchitis does not commonly present with large amounts of sputum or signs of chronic hypoxia (e.g., digital clubbing). Since x-ray also usually shows no or only mild pathological findings, this diagnosis is unlikely.

**C - Aspiration pneumonia** - Aspiration pneumonia is a common complication in patients with a history of stroke and subsequent impairments with swallowing. Aspiration may present either acutely with bronchospasms and hypoxemia or asymptomatically, which is more common. Although the pneumonia also presents with fever, dyspnea, and cough, this patient's x-ray shows no findings that are consistent with the diagnosis (e.g., infiltrates, esp. in the lower lobes).

**D - Emphysema** - Patients with emphysema usually present with a history of a chronic cough that is characteristically worse in the mornings, production of small amounts of sputum, and dyspnea. Since concomitant chronic bronchitis with a productive cough is common, the clinical presentation can be similar to this patient's symptoms. However, since the patient does not have signs of hyperinflation (e.g., flattened diaphragm, wider intercostal spaces) on x-ray, which are typical for emphysema, the diagnosis is unlikely.

Image File: 1432-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ffe9b8f66010.jpg

**E - Pulmonary embolism** - Pulmonary embolism (PE) presents with sudden onset of dyspnea, chest pain, coughing, tachycardia, and, in some cases, jugular venous distention. Hemoptysis, fever, and decreased oxygen saturation are also common, but this patient's history (cough, digital clubbing) suggests a chronic condition. While certain signs on x-ray should raise suspicion of PE (e.g., atelectasis, wedge-shaped opacities), these signs are not specific enough to establish the diagnosis, making them better suited to rule out other conditions. This patient's x-ray findings suggest a different diagnosis.

Image File: 1432-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_547454f18d972.jpg

**F - Lung cancer** - Lung cancer is an important differential diagnosis in a patient with a history of smoking, chronic cough, dyspnea, and hemoptysis. However, while bacterial superinfections (e.g., pneumonia) are common and present with fever and a productive cough, the underlying chronic cough is typically mild and nonproductive. Since, in addition, this patient's x-ray findings show no features of a lung tumor (e.g., solitary nodule, atelectasis, unilateral pleural effusion), another diagnosis is more likely.

Image File: 1432-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59e4ac683f352.jpg

