### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Administer isoniazid for 9 months** - Given this patient's positive PPD skin test and the absence of any TB-associated symptoms (e.g., fever, cough, night sweats, hemoptysis) or TB-related findings on chest x-ray (e.g., hilar lymphadenopathy, upper lobe opacification, or cavitation), this patient fulfills the criteria for a latent tuberculosis infection. All patients who test positive for latent TB should receive treatment. Also, this patient's history of type 1 diabetes mellitus is a risk factor for reactivation of latent TB, further justifying treatment in this patient. Nine months of isoniazid monotherapy is the recommended treatment for latent TB infection. Note that isoniazid is a vitamin B6 antagonist and pyridoxine (vitamin B6) should always be administered simultaneously to prevent side effects such as peripheral neuropathy.

Alternatively, 6 months of isoniazid, 4 months of rifampin, or 3 months of isoniazid and rifapentine can be administered.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform interferon-γ release assay** - Interferon-γ release assay is useful for the diagnosis of latent tuberculosis. However, this patient's history, his positive PPD skin test in combination with his immigration status, and a normal chest x-ray are enough to make the diagnosis of latent tuberculosis. An interferon-γ release assay would therefore not yield any additional diagnostic information.

**C - Collect sputum sample for culture** - Collecting sputum culture samples (to identify Mycobacterium tuberculosis) is considered the gold standard method for diagnosing active tuberculosis. However, cultures can take up to 6 weeks and this patient's normal chest x-ray has already ruled out active, pulmonary TB.

Image File: 1434-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57dbd906d29d4.jpg

**D - Administer isoniazid + rifampin + pyrazinamide + ethambutol** - This is the typical therapy regimen for active TB, whereas latent TB can be managed with a less aggressive antibiotic therapy.

**E - Reassurance** - Reassurance is not recommended because this patient has latent tuberculosis infection, which requires treatment to prevent reactivation of active TB.

**F - Repeat PPD skin test** - This patient already has a positive PPD skin test and repeating it would most likely result in a second positive test.

**G - Obtain a chest CT scan** - Although a chest CT scan provides better resolution than a chest x-ray, it is not used for the management of patients with suspected tuberculosis; chest x-ray is less expensive and sensitive enough to diagnose active pulmonary TB.

Image File: 1434-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60fee3b72d2e1.jpg

