### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Pneumothorax** - Pneumothorax, the accumulation of air within the pleural space, manifests with sudden chest pain and dyspnea. Pertussis, which this patient has, is usually associated with severe bouts of coughing, leading to increased intrathoracic and intraabdominal pressure and subsequent increased risk of complications such as scleral hemorrhages, epistaxis, abdominal hernias, and pneumothorax. Other, more common, complications of pertussis include apnea and secondary infections (e.g., otitis media).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Asthma** - Asthma is an obstructive lung disease with a complex etiology. Respiratory tract infections, allergens, and exercise can all trigger acute asthma attacks in genetically predisposed individuals. Childhood risk factors for asthma include atopic dermatitis, allergic rhinitis, food allergies, and bronchiolitis requiring hospitalization. While this patient's history of hospitalization for bronchiolitis puts her at increased risk of developing asthma, it is not a complication of pertussis.

**B - Hemolytic anemia** - Hemolytic anemia, a condition characterized by the increased destruction of red blood cells, can be hereditary (e.g., sickle cell disease) or acquired (e.g., due to infection with Clostridium perfingens, Mycoplasma species). Mycoplasma pneumoniae is a common cause of atypical pneumonia, which typically manifests with a nonproductive cough and low-grade fever, similar to what is seen in this patient. Atypical pneumonia is an important differential diagnosis and should be considered in this patient. However, the cough with a “whooping” sound makes pertussis more likely in this case. Additionally, chest x-ray findings in atypical pneumonia typically show diffuse reticular opacities, whereas this patient's x-ray findings are unremarkable. Finally, Bordetella pertussis, the pathogen that causes pertussis, is not associated with hemolytic anemia.

**C - Infertility** - Infertility can occur as a consequence of untreated orchitis leading to atrophy of the testes in male patients infected with the mumps virus. Mumps typically manifests with inflammation of the salivary glands, particularly the parotid glands, causing local swelling, pain, and earache, none of which are present in this patient. In addition, paroxysmal coughing spells followed by an inspiratory whoop are not characteristic of this condition. Lastly, this patient is a 3-year-old girl.

**D - Pericarditis** - Pericarditis manifests with chest pain and dyspnea, similar to what is seen in this patient. It is most commonly idiopathic or caused by viral infection but can also occur in association with bacterial infections, neoplasms, collagen-vascular diseases (e.g., systemic lupus erythematosus), certain drugs (e.g., doxorubicin), radiation, trauma, or following acute myocardial infarction. Bordetella pertussis, the pathogen that causes pertussis, is not a known cause of pericarditis.

**F - Guillain-Barré syndrome** - Guillain-Barré syndrome is an immune-mediated neurological disorder that manifests with progressive ascending paralysis. It most commonly occurs as a sequela of Campylobacter jejuni gastroenteritis but is associated with other infections as well, including Mycoplasma pneumoniae, cytomegalovirus, and Epstein-Barr virus infection. Pertussis, however, is not associated with Guillain-Barré syndrome.

