### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Decreased pulmonary compliance** - The accumulation of fluid and protein in the lungs from ARDS disrupts alveolar surfactant and increases the force needed to maintain open alveoli. An increase in the pressure required to inflate the lungs is the result of a decrease in lung compliance, which results in severe respiratory distress. In ARDS, the alveolar exudate causes the formation of hyaline membranes, which impair alveolar gas exchange and lead to hypoxemia. In addition, patients with ARDS commonly develop pulmonary hypertension as a result of chronic hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Decreased alveolar dead space** - A decrease in alveolar dead space occurs through an increase in perfusion to underperfused areas of the lung, which improves the V/Q ratio. In a patient with ARDS, the alveolar dead space would be expected to be increased.

**B - Increased pulmonary wedge pressure** - Increased pulmonary capillary wedge pressure results from left-sided heart disease (e.g., left ventricular failure). This patient suffers from ARDS, a primary alveolar-capillary tissue injury, which does not directly influence pulmonary capillary wedge pressure.

**C - Decreased pulmonary artery pressure** - A decrease in pulmonary artery pressure occurs when there is a decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance. In patients with ARDS, hypoxic vasoconstriction and injuries to the pulmonary vessels typically cause an increase in pulmonary vascular resistance.

**E - Increased mixed venous oxygen saturation** - An increase in mixed venous oxygen saturation represents either an increase in oxygen supply or a decrease in oxygen demand. However, this patient's ARDS makes him hypoxemic, resulting in a decrease in oxygen supply and, subsequently, a decrease in mixed venous oxygen saturation.

**F - Decreased shunt fraction** - A decrease in shunt fraction occurs if the amount of deoxygenated blood leaving the lungs to the left heart (e.g., improving ventilation, oxygen supplementation) is decreased. In a patient with ARDS, the number of nonventilated alveoli that are perfused is increased, resulting an increased shunt fraction and, consequently, hypoxemia.

