### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Test lacks precision** - Based on the results presented, the historical hemocytometer lacks precision (i.e., reliability). The test is unreliable, as it does not consistently give similar results on repeated measurement. The range (statistics) of results of the historical hemocytometer is 55,000–92,000, while the range of results of the modern automated CBC analyzer is much smaller (71000–74000), indicating that it is more precise. Random errors result in single values differing significantly from the mean during test-retest measurement, which reduces the precision of a test.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Test lacks accuracy** - Overall, the historical hemocytometer seems to be accurate at measuring what it is supposed to measure (i.e., platelet counts). A lack of accuracy would probably have resulted in a different mean compared to the modern automated CBC analyzer.

**B - Test lacks validity** - Overall, the historical hemocytometer seems to be accurate at measuring what it is supposed to measure (i.e., low platelet counts from ITP). A lack of validity would have resulted in a different mean than the modern automated CBC analyzer.

**C - Test lacks specificity** - Specificity is a measure of test validity and refers to the ability of a test to correctly identify those who do not have a certain disease (here low platelet counts from ITP). As there are no standard values for normal or ITP-altered platelet counts offered here, no conclusions about specificity can be drawn.

**E - Test lacks sensitivity** - Sensitivity (epidemiology) is a measure of test validity and refers to the ability of a test to correctly identify those who have a certain disease (here low platelet counts from ITP). As there are no standard values for normal or ITP-altered platelet count values offered here, no conclusions about sensitivity can be drawn.

