### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Noninvasive ventilation** - Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) with bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) is the recommended first-line ventilatory strategy in patients with AECOPD and acute respiratory failure. Indications include hypercapnic respiratory acidosis (PaCO2 > 45 mm Hg and arterial pH ≤ 7.35), as seen here, severe dyspnea with signs of increased work of breathing and/or respiratory muscle fatigue, and persistent hypoxemia despite supplemental oxygen. As the name implies, noninvasive ventilation provides positive pressure ventilation through a noninvasive interface (e.g., facemask, nasal plugs). Compared to endotracheal intubation, NIPPV carries a lower risk of complications (e.g., barotrauma, airway trauma) and is associated with decreased hospital length-of-stay, lower mortality, and a decreased risk of complications such as infections. Invasive mechanical ventilation is indicated only if a trial of NIPPV fails (e.g., poor patient tolerance, worsening hypoxemia), if NIPPV is contraindicated (e.g., altered mental status, high risk of aspiration), or if the patient has severe hemodynamic instability.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Theophylline therapy** - Theophylline is an oral nonselective phosphodiesterase inhibitor that has bronchodilatory and antiinflammatory effects and can be considered as second-line therapy in patients with AECOPD if inhaled bronchodilatory therapy has failed. However, there is insufficient scientific evidence to support the use of theophylline in AECOPD patients and it is not generally recommended.

**B - Rapid-sequence intubation** - Rapid-sequence intubation is a type of invasive airway support that should only be performed in patients with AECOPD if less invasive respiratory support measures have been exhausted, if less invasive measure are contraindicated, or if the patient has severe hemodynamic instability. Mechanical ventilation via endotracheal intubation in patients with COPD is associated with an increased risk of complications (e.g., barotrauma) and higher mortality rates. Although this patient is in need of further respiratory support, there are other, less invasive options available.

**C - High-flow oxygen therapy** - High-flow oxygen therapy can be used as a method of noninvasive ventilation and involves delivery of small amounts of positive airway pressure to help decrease dead space. Although it can provide some benefit in hypercapnic respiratory failure, it aids more in oxygenation. This patient's SpO2 is within the target range for COPD (88–92%). Another respiratory modality would be more effective than high-flow oxygen in decreasing this patient's CO2 levels.

**E - Intravenous epinephrine** - Epinephrine is an adrenergic agonist with beta adrenergic properties that helps facilitate bronchodilation, which would be beneficial in this patient. However, because of its alpha adrenergic effects, intravenous epinephrine also carries a high risk of cardiovascular complications, e.g., arrhythmias and myocardial ischemia. It is not recommended for the management of COPD exacerbations.

