### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Alteplase** - This patient's CT scan shows evidence of a large pulmonary embolism (PE). In cases of massive PE with hemodynamic instability (e.g., SBP < 90 mm Hg), thrombolysis with alteplase or other recombinant tissue plasminogen activators (tPA) is indicated. Because of the associated significant risk of bleeding, there are several relative and absolute contraindications to thrombolysis. Surgery within the past 10 days is a relative contraindication, but this patient underwent surgery 3 weeks ago. Therefore, alteplase would be the most appropriate treatment. Anticoagulation with heparin, rivaroxaban, warfarin, or apixaban is also appropriate treatment for patients with PE. However, these agents are typically used in patients who remain hemodynamically stable.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Endovascular stent-grafting** - Endovascular stent-grafting can be used in the treatment of type A (proximal) aortic dissection. Patients typically present with severe, tearing chest pain, hypertension, and asymmetric pulses. Hypotension, severe dyspnea, and cough, as seen in this patient, are less common manifestations of type A (proximal) aortic dissection. The patient's CT scan also shows a vascular filling defect consistent with a pulmonary embolism rather than a tear in the aortic intima, which would be typical in a case of dissection.

**B - Tube thoracostomy** - Tube thoracostomy is used in the treatment of tension pneumothorax, which can manifest with dyspnea, pleuritic chest pain, cough, JVD, and hypotension, which are seen in this patient. However, her CT scan shows a vascular filling defect consistent with a pulmonary embolism rather than air in the pleural space with tracheal deviation, which is typical in cases of tension pneumothorax.

**D - Piperacillin and tazobactam** - Piperacillin/tazobactam can be used in the treatment of pneumonia. Pneumonia can manifest with dyspnea and cough, and, in the setting of sepsis, even hypotension. However, JVD, as seen in this patient, would not be expected in pneumonia. In addition, this patient's CT scan shows a vascular filling defect consistent with a pulmonary embolism rather than parenchymal infiltrates and/or consolidation, which would be typical in a case of pneumonia.

**E - Coronary angioplasty** - Coronary angioplasty is used in the treatment of myocardial infarction. Myocardial infarction can manifest with chest pain, JVD, and hypotension, which are seen in this patient. However, her CT scan shows a vascular filling defect consistent with a pulmonary embolism. In addition, a CT scan is typically not diagnostic in cases of myocardial infarction.

**F - Bumetanide** - Bumetanide is a diuretic used in the treatment of pulmonary edema. Pulmonary edema can manifest with dyspnea, cough, tachypnea, and JVD, which are seen in this patient. However, her CT scan shows a vascular filling defect that is consistent with a pulmonary embolism rather than the findings typically seen in pulmonary edema (i.e., ground-glass opacities and peribronchovascular interstitial thickening). In addition, administering a diuretic could be detrimental to a patient with hypotension.

**G - Pericardiocentesis** - Pericardiocentesis is a procedure used to treat patients with pericardial effusion with cardiac tamponade. Cardiac tamponade can manifest with dyspnea, chest pain, hypotension, and JVD, which are seen in this patient. However, her CT scan shows a vascular filling defect consistent with a PE, as opposed to a fluid-filled pericardial sac, which would be typical in a patient with tamponade. Furthermore, pericardiocentesis would pose a risk of myocardial or endocardial injury in a patient who does not have a pericardial effusion.

