### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Clarithromycin** - This patient is presenting with tonsillitis that is likely of bacterial etiology, which would normally be treated with penicillin V. However, penicillins are contraindicated in this patient because of his past severe allergic reaction to another penicillin antibiotic (i.e., skin rash, facial swelling, and dyspnea after taking amoxicillin). Thus, macrolides, such as clarithromycin or azithromycin, should be given instead.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Penicillin V** - S. pyogenes is the most common cause of bacterial tonsillitis and is uniformly sensitive to penicillin, making penicillin V the first-line treatment. However, given this patient's history of allergic reaction to amoxicillin (i.e., skin rash and facial swelling), penicillin antibiotics are contraindicated.

**B - Total tonsillectomy** - Total tonsillectomy is associated with a high risk of postoperative bleeding, and is therefore not suitable as the initial treatment in this patient, who is a child, and has no signs of peritonsillar abscess and has had an uncomplicated course up to now.

**C - Partial tonsillectomy** - Partial tonsillectomy carries the usual risks associated with surgery (e.g., postoperative bleeding, infection, etc.) and is therefore not suitable as the initial treatment in this patient, who has no signs of peritonsillar abscess and an uncomplicated course up to now.

**D - Fluconazole** - The whitish membrane seen covering this patient's tonsil could be a finding of oral Candida infection (i.e., thrush), which is typically treated with fluconazole. However, in a healthy child with a fever and acute tonsillitis, this whitish membrane is more likely due to tonsillar exudates. Fungal infections are more common in immunosuppressed or systemically ill individuals.

**F - Cefixime** - Third-generation cephalosporins, such as cefixime, have a wider gram-negative spectrum than those of the 1st and 2nd generation, but they do not provide the gram-positive coverage that penicillins or some macrolides do. In addition, up to 10% of patients with penicillin allergy are also allergic to cephalosporins. They are therefore not the ideal choice for bacterial tonsillitis in this patient.

