### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Pulmonary embolism** - In a pregnant woman, acute-onset chest pain, cough, and shortness of breath with hypoxia and tachycardia are most likely to indicate pulmonary embolism. Pregnancy and the puerperium are risk factors for the development of venous thromboembolism and subsequent pulmonary embolism. During pregnancy, compression of the venous system by an enlarged uterus can result in venous stasis, one of the three factors of the Virchow triad. A state of hypercoagulability, the second factor of the Virchow triad, is classically seen in pregnant women due to an increase in coagulation factors and decreased levels of protein C. The third contributing factor is endothelial damage, which may occur during labor and so increase the risk of thrombosis during the postpartum period.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Aortic dissection** - Aortic dissection can cause acute-onset chest pain and pleural effusion. However, this condition does not typically cause dry cough, jugular venous distension, or asymmetrical leg edema. Moreover, aortic dissection very rarely occurs in young patients without risk factors (e.g., Marfan syndrome).

**B - Spontaneous pneumothorax** - Spontaneous pneumothorax can manifest with acute-onset chest pain, dyspnea, tachypnea, cough, hypoxia, and tachycardia as seen in this case. Jugular venous distension can also develop in cases of tension pneumothorax. However, pneumothorax would result in hyperresonance to percussion of the affected side, not dullness, and it would not explain this patient's asymmetrical leg edema.

**D - Panic attack** - A panic attack can manifest with dyspnea and chest pain as seen in this case. However, panic attacks are typically preceded by an abrupt surge of intense fear that reaches a peak within minutes and lasts for minutes to an hour. In addition, this patient does not have additional common manifestations of panic attacks such as palpitations, sweating, nausea, dizziness, and paresthesias. Moreover, a panic attack would not explain this patient's jugular venous distention, dullness to percussion of the lung, and asymmetrical leg edema.

**E - Bacterial pneumonia** - Pneumonia can cause chest pain, dyspnea, hypoxia, cough, and unilateral dullness to percussion (from consolidation and/or a parapneumonic effusion). However, this patient lacks additional common manifestations of pneumonia such as fever, productive cough, and malaise. Moreover, pneumonia would not explain this patient's jugular venous distension and asymmetrical leg edema.

**F - Myocardial infarction** - Myocardial infarction can manifest with acute-onset chest pain and dyspnea as seen in this case. If a myocardial infarction is complicated by acute right heart failure (as in an inferior wall myocardial infarction) then hypoxia, pleural effusion, and jugular venous distension can also develop. However, myocardial infarction is unlikely in a young patient, like this 28-year-old woman, and it would not explain this patient's dry cough and asymmetrical leg edema.

**G - Acute pericarditis** - Acute pericarditis can cause acute-onset chest pain and jugular venous distension (if a large, associated pericardial effusion has compromised right ventricular filling). However, pericarditis would not explain this patient's asymmetrical leg edema, dry cough, and unilateral pleural effusion.

