### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Adenocarcinoma of the lung** - Adenocarcinoma is the most common type of lung cancer seen in nonsmokers, is much more common in women (6:1), and is usually located peripherally. A solid lesion ≥ 8 mm with irregular margins in a patient > 40 years of age is highly suspicious for this diagnosis. This chest x-ray should be compared to previous chest x-rays, if available, and the lesion should be further evaluated with a chest CT scan. CT-guided transthoracic biopsy is used to confirm the diagnosis.

Image File: 1449-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59e4ac683f352.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Carcinoid tumor** - Carcinoid tumor is a small, slow-growing neuroendocrine tumor with an excellent prognosis. Carcinoid tumors can present with carcinoid syndrome (diarrhea, flushing, wheezing) or symptoms secondary to mass effect. Lesions are usually bronchial (rather than peripheral), making this an unlikely diagnosis in this patient.

**B - Small cell lung cancer** - Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is an aggressive neuroendocrine tumor that is strongly associated with smoking and metastasizes early. Unlike the x-ray findings in this patient, SCLC typically affects the central parts of the lungs and is often disseminated by the time it is diagnosed.

**C - Sarcoidosis** - This patient has some features consistent with sarcoidosis, such as weight loss, fatigue, and dry cough. Her age and ethnicity also put her at increased risk for the condition. However, sarcoidosis is characterized by bilateral hilar adenopathy, rather than a solitary peripheral nodule. Furthermore, this patient does not have extrapulmonary manifestations that are common in sarcoidosis, such as peripheral lymphadenopathy, anterior uveitis, and/or erythema nodosum.

Image File: 1449-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94ec0143.jpg

**D - Squamous cell carcinoma of the lung** - Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the lung most commonly occurs in smokers (> 95% are smokers) and is typically characterized by centrally located, cavitary lesions on imaging. This patient has no smoking history and a peripheral nodule (at the apex), making SCC unlikely.

Image File: 1449-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59b93577a86a1.jpg

**E - Large cell lung carcinoma** - Large cell lung carcinoma is a rare neuroendocrine tumor that is highly mitotic and follows an aggressive course. It typically presents as a large peripheral mass (> 3 cm) on chest x-ray. This type of lung cancer is rare and usually occurs in smokers, which makes another diagnosis more likely.

