### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Increased false positives** - Raising the cutoff value to 750/mm3 (i.e., broadening the inclusion criteria for agranulocytosis) would result in an increase in true and false positives, while true and false negatives would decrease. In other words, increasing the inclusion criteria leads to more patients with the disease being identified as such, while at the same time resulting in there being an increased number of individuals under suspicion for agranulocytosis who do not actually have the disease. This would make the test more sensitive but less specific. It would also lead to a decreased positive predictive value and an increased negative predictive value. A high sensitivity is usually achieved at the expense of specificity. Only a test with 100% specificity and 100% sensitivity would correctly identify all true positive and all true negative individuals.

Be aware: In conditions in which a high laboratory value is diagnostic (e.g., CA 19-9 for pancreatic cancer, anti-Smith antibodies for SLE, etc.), raising the cutoff value will result in increased specificity and decreased sensitivity. In agranulocytosis, however, a low (!) laboratory value is diagnostic.

Image File: 145-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cffb0a20ddf0.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increased true negatives** - Raising the cutoff value to 750/mm3 would decrease the number of true negatives (i.e., individuals without agranulocytosis who correctly test negative).

**B - Increased positive predictive value** - Raising the cutoff value to 750/mm3 would result in a decreased positive predictive value (PPV = true positives/(true positives + false positives)). The reason the PPV decreases is that the number of false positives would increase more than the number of true positives.

Raising the cutoff value will increase the negative predictive value (NPV = true negatives/(true negatives + false negatives)), as the number of false negatives would decrease more than the number of true negatives.

**C - Decreased true positives** - Raising the cutoff value to 750/mm3 would increase the number of true positives (i.e., individuals with agranulocytosis who correctly test positive).

**D - Unchanged specificity** - Raising the cutoff value to 750/mm3 would decrease the specificity of the test, so fewer individuals who do not truly have agranulocytosis (true negatives), would correctly be identified as negative.

**F - Decreased sensitivity** - Raising the cutoff value to 750/mm3 would increase the sensitivity of the test, so more individuals who truly have agranulocytosis (true positives) would be identified as having the condition.

