### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Administer intravenous furosemide** - This patient presents with respiratory distress (acute dyspnea, hypoxemia) and bibasilar crackles on pulmonary auscultation. In conjunction with his history of long-standing poorly controlled hypertension, these findings indicate pulmonary edema due to acute decompensated heart failure (ADHF). As this patient is hemodynamically stable, management includes oxygen supplementation, raising the head of the bed, and intravenous loop diuretics such as furosemide. Diuresis results in a decrease in intravascular volume, thereby reducing the cardiac preload, central venous pressure, and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, which, in turn, reduces pulmonary edema. Furthermore, in patients with pulmonary edema, furosemide causes transient venodilation, further reducing pulmonary congestion, even before the onset of diuresis. If respiratory distress persists, treatment with vasodilators for ADHF (e.g., nitroglycerin) may be initiated to further reduce preload.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer oral metoprolol** - Oral metoprolol can be used in the treatment of hypertension, especially in patients with concomitant congestive heart failure. However, metoprolol should be avoided in patients with acute decompensated heart failure, which this patient most likely has, as this drug decreases myocardial contractility, resulting in left ventricular dysfunction and further worsening of pulmonary edema.

**B - Administer inhaled albuterol and corticosteroids** - Inhaled albuterol and corticosteroids are typically indicated in patients with respiratory distress due to obstructive lung disease (e.g., asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). This type of condition manifests with wheezing and rhonchi, not the bibasilar lung crackles heard in this patient.

**D - Place chest tube** - Chest tube placement is indicated in patients with pneumothorax, hemothorax, or pleural effusion. Although this patient presents with symptoms associated with these conditions (dyspnea, hypoxemia), auscultation would typically reveal decreased breath sounds rather than the bibasilar crackles heard in this patient.

**E - Begin oral antibiotic therapy** - Antibiotics may be indicated for patients with respiratory distress due to pneumonia. This condition, however, typically manifests with unilateral crackles, fever, pleuritic chest pain, and productive cough rather than the bibasilar lung crackles that are heard in this patient.

**F - Administer intravenous corticosteroids** - Intravenous corticosteroids are administered in patients with respiratory distress due to acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (AECOPD). Although this patient has a long-standing smoking history, which puts him at increased risk for COPD, auscultation would reveal wheezing or rhonchi, not the bibasilar lung crackles heard here. AECOPD classically manifests with worsening dyspnea, increasing frequency or severity of cough, and/or increasing volume or purulence of sputum, with or without fever.

