### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Aspiration pneumonia** - Cough, malodorous phlegm, and fever in the setting of alcohol use disorder and reflux (history of severe heartburn) are suggestive of aspiration pneumonia. This patient's chest x-ray showing a hazy infiltrate in the right lower lung field further supports this diagnosis. Altered consciousness is a risk factor for aspiration and is classically seen in alcohol abuse, sedation, general anesthesia, and seizures. This patient's history of gastric reflux is an additional risk factor for aspiration, as it indicates lower esophageal sphincter dysfunction, which can lead to the regurgitation of gastric contents into the esophagus.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bronchoalveolar carcinoma** - Bronchoalveolar carcinoma (adenocarcinoma in situ) is a noninvasive type of lung cancer with a particular growth pattern referred to as lepidic. Early in the disease, chest x-ray findings include a solitary peripheral nodule, but in more advanced stages it presents as diffuse consolidation, whereas this patient x-ray shows a hazy infiltrate localized to the right lower lobe. Furthermore, this patient's acute presentation, fever, and lack of systemic symptoms of lung cancer (weight loss, hemoptysis, and fatigue), make a different diagnosis more likely.

**B - Pneumocystis pneumonia** - Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP pneumonia) is a common opportunistic infection in patients with HIV and the most common cause of death in patients with AIDS. However, PCP pneumonia manifests with a dry cough, diffuse bilateral dry crackles, and interstitial pneumonia on chest x-ray, unlike this patient's findings. Additionally, a CD4+ count > 200 cells/mm3 makes this diagnosis less likely.

**D - Bronchiectasis** - Bronchiectasis is mainly seen in patients with cystic fibrosis and/or recurrent pulmonary infections. It is characterized by copious mucopurulent sputum, in contrast to this patient, who has small amounts of malodorous phlegm. Furthermore, as opposed to this patient's hazy infiltrate in the right lower lobe, bronchiectasis characteristically appears as “tram track” lines due to chronic inflammation and fibrosis of bronchial walls, which can progress to honeycombing.

**E - Tuberculosis** - Tuberculosis (TB) usually presents with fever and night sweats, as seen in this patient. Although alcohol abuse and being homeless are risk factors for development of TB, the subacute onset of a cough productive of malodorous phlegm is more suggestive of a different diagnosis. Moreover, chest x-ray in patients with active TB shows upper lobe cavitary lesions, whereas this patient's chest x-ray shows a hazy infiltrate in the right lower lung field.

**F - Mitral valve regurgitation** - Mitral valve regurgitation causes a pansystolic murmur best heard at the apex. This patient's 2/6 mid-systolic ejection murmur best heard along the upper right sternal border is likely to be due to aortic stenosis. Mitral regurgitation causes pulmonary edema, which can be heard on auscultation as bilateral crackles, whereas this patient has crackles localized to the right lower lobe. Furthermore, this patient's chest x-ray findings, fever, and acute onset of symptoms are more suggestive of a different condition.

**G - Pharyngoesophageal diverticulum** - Pharyngoesophageal diverticulum (Zenker diverticulum) presents with foul-smelling regurgitation of undigested food. Although this patient has a cough productive of malodorous phlegm, he does not complain of food regurgitation. Patients with pharyngoesophageal diverticulum usually complain of dysphagia and a sensation of having a lump in their throat, which is not present in this patient. Moreover, fever and fatigue are not explained by a pharyngoesophageal diverticulum alone.

