### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Amphotericin B** - Rhinocerebral mucormycosis is an invasive, life-threatening infection that must be treated promptly and aggressively with surgical debridement and amphotericin B. Progression can be very rapid (within hours), and this patient's altered mental status and periorbital swelling should raise concern of orbital and cranial extension. Empirical treatment with amphotericin B should be started as soon as the diagnosis is suspected. Controlling the patient's hyperglycemia is also essential.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Posaconazole** - Posaconazole is a broad-spectrum antifungal agent used in the treatment of infections caused by Aspergillus and Candida species. It may also be used as a second-line or salvage agent in patients with mucormycosis, but only if the first-line antifungal treatment is ineffective or not tolerated, or as stepdown therapy after control of the disease is achieved. A different therapy should be tried first.

**B - Prednisone** - Prednisone is a potent anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant that is used to treat a variety of conditions. While corticosteroids may be used in the treatment of asthma or sinus disease related to allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, they are contraindicated for most invasive fungal infections, including mucormycosis.

**D - Fluconazole** - Fluconazole is an antifungal agent used to treat infections caused by organisms including Candida, Cryptococcus neoformans, and dermatophytes. It is not effective in patients with mucormycosis.

**E - Piperacillin** - Piperacillin is a broad-spectrum antibiotic with pseudomonal coverage. It may be used to treat ecthyma gangrenosum, a cutaneous infection that typically presents as a necrotic ulcer in immunocompromised patients. Piperacillin is not an effective treatment for mucormycosis.

**F - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole** - TMP-SMX can be used to treat a variety of infectious organisms, including Nocardia species. Nocardia can also cause cellulitis, abscess formation, ulceration, and draining sinus tracts in immunosuppressed patients, but it appears as gram-positive, weakly acid-fast filaments on microscopy. TMP-SMX is not effective in the treatment of mucormycosis.

**G - Ciprofloxacin** - Ciprofloxacin can be used to treat various bacterial infections, including cutaneous anthrax, which can present with an ulcerating vesicle and black eschar formation, as well as fever and regional lymphadenopathy. While it can also involve the face or oropharynx, Bacillus anthracis is a rod-shaped, gram-positive aerobic bacterium, unlike the organism seen in this patient. Ciprofloxacin is not an effective treatment for mucormycosis.

**H - Oxacillin** - Oxacillin is a penicillin antibiotic with intrinsic beta-lactamase resistance that is used to treat gram-positive aerobic infections, particularly methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus species. While it is commonly used for the treatment of bacterial skin and soft tissue infections, is not an effective treatment for mucormycosis.

