### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Chest tube placement** - This patient meets criteria for chest tube placement. A pleural fluid pH < 7.20 or glucose < 60 mg/dL indicates that effusion very likely requires drainage because these are signs of empyema formation, and empyemas are unlikely to resolve spontaneously. Chest tube placement (tube thoracostomy) is the least invasive treatment modality for drainage of the pleural space.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous furosemide** - Intravenous furosemide is used to resolve transudative pleural effusion due to congestive heart failure (CHF). This patient has a parapneumonic effusion, which is an exudate, not a transudate. Moreover, this patient has no signs of CHF (e.g., nocturia, S4/S3 gallop).

**B - Intrapleural administration of deoxyribonuclease** - Deoxyribonuclease (DNase) is a mucolytic agent that reduces pleural fluid viscosity and prevents or dissolves loculations. Intrapleural administration of DNase can be used to facilitate drainage of complicated parapneumonic effusions, but it is not considered first-line therapy and is not recommended as monotherapy.

**C - Pleural decortication** - Pleural decortication is an invasive procedure that involves the surgical removal of restrictive layers of fibrous tissue overlying the lung to allow better lung compliance and expansion. Pleural decortication is indicated in patients with recurrent effusions or effusions refractory to less invasive techniques. This patient should first be managed with a less invasive treatment.

**D - Intrapleural administration of tissue plasminogen activator** - Intrapleural administration of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) or other fibrinolytic agents can be used to facilitate drainage of complicated parapneumonic effusions and to prevent the formation of septae in the pleural cavity. Intrapleural tPA is not considered a first-line intervention and is not recommended as monotherapy. It is reserved for loculated effusion and/or empyema that cannot be completely resolved.

**F - Thoracoscopic debridement** - Thoracoscopic debridement is an invasive procedure reserved for patients with complicated parapneumonic effusions that have failed less invasive treatment. This patient should first be managed with a less invasive treatment.

