### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Randomization** - Randomization is a central component of clinical trials. Unlike other methods of assigning cases and controls (e.g., restriction, matching, or stratified analysis), which rely on the investigator's knowledge of possible confounders, randomization can control for both known and unknown confounders. In order to show that randomization was performed successfully, most clinical studies include a table of patient characteristics that compares the different groups in order to show that possible confounders (socioeconomic status, demographics, etc.) are distributed approximately equally between the two groups.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Statistical power** - Statistical power is the probability that the study will detect a statistically significant difference between the two experimental groups if one truly exists. It is not related to the table mentioned above.

**B - Observer bias** - Observer bias occurs when the investigator's knowledge or expectations influences the measurement of a variable or classification of subjects (e.g., as cases or noncases). Observer bias can be controlled with blinding. The table mentioned above is not directly related to observer bias. It might, however, be helpful for detecting selection bias.

**C - Confounding** - Confounding is a type of systematic error that occurs when a third variable distorts the relationship between the exposure and the outcome of interest. Although it is related to confounding, the table in question does not directly evaluate whether confounding is taking place. Tables that directly evaluate confounding would show the outcomes of interest stratified by a given variable (e.g., socioeconomic status).

**D - Replicability** - The replicability of a study is its ability to yield the same results if repeated in the future. The table above comparing the two experimental groups would not allow any conclusions to be drawn about replicability.

**F - Effect modification** - Effect modification occurs when the magnitude of the relationship between the exposure and the outcome of interest is modified by a third variable. In order to evaluate for effect modification, the investigator would need to stratify the data by a third variable.

