### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Prolonged immobilization** - Prolonged immobilization is a risk factor for the development of pulmonary embolism. Eighty percent of pleural effusions associated with pulmonary embolisms are exudative pleural effusions, and they may be blood-filled, especially if the PE has resulted in pulmonary infarction.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oropharyngeal dysphagia** - Oropharyngeal dysphagia is a risk factor for aspiration pneumonia, which can cause chest pain, dyspnea, and unilateral exudative pleural effusion (parapneumonic effusion). However, pleural effusion in cases of aspiration pneumonia would be cloudy or purulent rather than bloody.

**B - Infliximab use** - Immunosuppression with infliximab is a risk factor for pneumonia, as well as other pulmonary infections including tuberculosis. All of these infections that can cause pleuritic chest pain, dyspnea, and an exudative pleural effusion, but would be unlikely to present without any lung field abnormalities on x-ray. Furthermore, this patient is afebrile, making an infectious etiology of his symptoms less likely.

**D - Congestive heart failure** - Left ventricular dysfunction associated with congestive heart failure can lead to dyspnea, pulmonary edema, and pleural effusions due to increased hydrostatic pressure in the pulmonary vasculature. However, these effusions are transudates and typically occur bilaterally. A hemorrhagic, unilateral exudate would not be expected.

**E - Asbestos exposure** - Abestos exposure is a risk factor for asbestosis and malignancies (e.g., lung cancer and mesothelioma), which could be consistent with chest pain and dyspnea with a bloody, exudative pleural effusion, but other findings are inconsistent with these diagnoses. The chest x-ray did not show pleural thickening or pleural plaques suggesting asbestosis, and there were no masses visualized suggesting possible neoplasia. In addition, cytology showed no evidence of malignancy, and he does not present with any symptoms of a malignant disease (e.g., chronic cough, weight loss, hemoptysis).

**F - Alcoholic cirrhosis** - Alcoholic cirrhosis can lead to a transudative pleural effusion due to hypoproteinemia and/or hypoalbuminemia. The decreased hepatic production of serum proteins decreases oncotic pressure, which can lead to bilateral transudative pleural effusion. However, a hemorrhagic, unilateral exudate would not be expected.

