### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Initiate rifampin therapy** - A 4-month course of rifampin monotherapy is one regimen for the treatment of latent TB infection (LTBI). Children < 5 years of age have an underdeveloped immune system, which increases the likelihood of false-negative TST results, a rapid progression from LTBI to active TB, and a severe disease course. Window prophylaxis should therefore be offered to all children of this age with significant exposure to TB in the past 8 weeks, regardless of the initial examination findings and/or test results. A follow-up TST should be performed 8–12 weeks after the child was last exposed to TB. If the follow-up TST is negative and there is no suspicion of a false-negative result, the treatment may be discontinued. HIV-positive individuals should be managed similarly but receive full-length prophylaxis, even if the follow-up TST is negative. Isolation measures apply only to those with suspected or confirmed active TB.

Recently, nitrosamine impurities in rifampin and rifapentine have been detected. Because the risk of not using these medications for the treatment of TB is considered higher than the possible risk from nitrosamine ingestion, the US Food and Drug Administration currently allows certain manufacturers to distribute rifampin and rifapentine with a certain amount of nitrosamine compounds. Alternative treatment regimens to rifampin are 3 months of isoniazid and rifapentine, 3 months of isoniazid and rifampin, or 9 months of isoniazid monotherapy.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Repeat tuberculin skin test in 2 weeks** - A repeat TST is recommended in children who have been exposed to TB, even if the original TST or interferon-gamma release assay is negative. However, the repeat test should be performed 8–12 weeks after the child was last exposed to TB, and this patient was last exposed only 1 week ago.

**B - No further management is indicated at this time** - This patient has a negative TST and is currently asymptomatic. However, he has been in close contact with an individual with active TB and, due to his age, is at high risk for progression from LTBI to active TB. Therefore, a different approach is indicated at this time.

**C - Perform interferon-gamma release assay** - The interferon-gamma release assay (IGRA) is a blood test used to diagnose latent or active TB. This test is more specific than TST and may be used to confirm a positive TST result or rule out a false-negative TST if the likelihood of infection is high. However, IGRA test results may be indeterminate in children < 5 years of age. Moreover, children of this age who have had significant exposure to active TB are indicated for management regardless of initial test results. Therefore, IGRA testing is not necessary at this point.

**E - Initiate rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol therapy** - Rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol is the most common antibiotic regimen for the treatment of active TB. This patient has no symptoms of active TB (e.g., cough, fever) and his TST is negative. This patient may have LTBI, which is managed differently.

