### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Elevated CD4+ T-cell count in bronchoalveolar lavage** - An elevated CD4+ T-cell count in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), particularly in association with an increased CD4+/CD8+ ratio, strongly suggests sarcoidosis. Release of cytokines such as IL-2 and IFN-γ from CD4+ T cells results in T-cell proliferation, macrophage activation, and, consequently, the formation of noncaseating granulomas, most commonly within the lungs and the lymphatic system. Further stimulation by activated T cells leads to increasing intra-alveolar and interstitial accumulation of CD4+ T cells, resulting in the depletion of peripheral T-cell populations, as represented by serum findings of T-cell lymphopenia.

Image File: 1464-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dfa3cb4e09c8.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Positive interferon-gamma release assay** - A positive interferon-gamma release assay suggests infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Active tuberculosis may also manifest with shortness of breath, hilar lymphadenopathy, and erythema nodosum. However, this patient's lack of risk factors (e.g., immune suppression, travel, exposure to an infected individual) and absence of other classic symptoms (e.g., weight loss and night sweats) make this diagnosis less likely.

**B - Low serum angiotensin-converting enzyme levels** - Low serum ACE levels may be seen in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which can manifest with progressive shortness of breath, cough, and fatigue but is not associated with erythema nodosum. Sarcoidosis is associated with increased ACE levels (60% of cases), although this finding is nonspecific and has poor sensitivity.

**C - Elevated serum parathyroid hormone levels** - Elevated serum PTH levels are seen in hyperparathyroidism, which is caused by either hyperplastic/adenomatous parathyroid glands (primary hyperparathyroidism) in response to decreased serum calcium levels (secondary hyperparathyroidism) or exogenous secretion of parathyroid-related protein by certain types of cancer (malignant hyperparathyroidism). In sarcoidosis, however, increased expression of 1α-hydroxylase in macrophages leads to hypervitaminosis D with a subsequent elevation of calcium levels, which results in low PTH levels due to the negative feedback mechanism.

**E - Positive anti-dsDNA antibody testing** - Positive anti-dsDNA antibody testing is consistent with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), a multisystem autoimmune disease that mainly affects women of reproductive age and is characterized by chronic inflammation. Lung involvement (pleuritis, pneumonitis, interstitial lung disease, pulmonary hypertension) in SLE is common, but the absence of other typical manifestations (e.g., a facial butterfly rash, myalgia, arthritis) makes this diagnosis unlikely.

