### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Increase the positive end-expiratory pressure** - ARDS is a syndrome with complex pathophysiology characterized by diffuse alveolar damage and collapse, leading to pulmonary edema and impairment in gas exchange. Increasing the PEEP will help distend the alveoli and decrease the pressure needed to inflate the lungs. Patients with severe ARDS often require higher levels of PEEP to help recruit alveoli and improve gas exchange. Since this patient is already at maximum FIO2 and is on appropriate lung protective ventilation settings (tidal volume of 6 mL/kg), increasing PEEP would be the most appropriate next step in management.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Inhaled nitric oxide** - Inhaled nitric oxide is used in the treatment of certain patients with severe pulmonary hypertension by improving pulmonary vasodilation. This patient does not have any history to suggest a diagnosis of pulmonary hypertension (e.g., signs of right heart failure like edema) and it is not an effective treatment for ARDS.

**B - Prone positioning of patient** - Early prone positioning can improve oxygenation and has been shown to decrease length of hospitalization and increase survival in patients with ARDS. Prone positioning, however, is technically difficult and is usually only pursued after alternative interventions to stabilize the patient's oxygenation have been attempted.

**C - Increase the tidal volume** - Generally, increasing the tidal volume will increase the volume of oxygen delivered to alveoli and can often improve oxygenation in most cases. However, the high peak pressures and lung distention associated with high tidal volumes in patients with ARDS increase the risk of barotrauma and worsening respiratory distress. Using lower tidal volumes (lung protective ventilation of ∼ 6 mL/kg) improves mortality risk in patients with ARDS, and mild hypercapnia is tolerated in this regard (permissive hypercapnia).

**E - Transfusion of red blood cells** - Transfusion of RBCs can increase the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood, although this effect is minimal. Hypoxia in acute respiratory distress syndrome is a result of impaired gas exchange at the capillary-alveolar interface, so a blood transfusion will not improve his oxygenation.

