### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Atelectasis** - Atelectasis is one of the most common postoperative complications (especially after chest or abdominal surgery) and typically develops within 72 hours after surgery. Atelectasis can cause acute dyspnea if many alveoli are affected. Additional manifestations can include chest pain, tachycardia, and cyanosis. Chest x-ray of patients with atelectatic lungs typically shows a homogeneous opacification that corresponds to the area of lung collapse as seen in this patient.

Image File: 1468-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e85df62c35fe.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Asthma exacerbation** - Patients with an asthma exacerbation can develop acute dyspnea. However, this patient does not have other typical manifestations of this condition such as a dry cough, prolonged expiratory phase with crackles, bilaterally (not unilaterally) decreased breath sounds, and tachypnea. Chest x-ray during an asthma exacerbation can be normal or show signs of pulmonary hyperinflation (e.g., hyperlucent lung fields). Although this patient has asthma, the absence of these findings makes an exacerbation of this condition an unlikely cause of his symptoms.

Image File: 1468-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ffe9b8f66010.jpg

**B - Pneumonitis** - Aspiration of gastric contents during perioperative procedures (e.g., intubation and extubation) can lead to pneumonitis, which causes acute dyspnea and airspace opacification on chest x-ray. However, this condition typically develops within minutes to hours after the aspiration event. Moreover, this patient does not have other typical manifestations of pneumonitis, which include a cough that is productive of pink sputum, wheezing, crackles, and fever.

**C - Pneumonia** - Pneumonia can cause postoperative dyspnea and an opacity restricted to one pulmonary lobe on chest x-ray. However, this patient does not have other typical manifestations of pneumonia, which include fever, chills, a cough that is productive of purulent sputum, crackles, and bronchial breath sounds.

Image File: 1468-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93200278.jpg

**D - Pulmonary embolism** - Patients who have recently undergone surgery have an increased risk of developing venous thromboembolic conditions such as deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism due to several risk factors, which include prolonged immobilization and endothelial damage. Pulmonary embolism can cause acute dyspnea, but this patient does not have other typical manifestations of this condition such as chest pain, cough, jugular venous distension, and manifestations of deep vein thrombosis (e.g., erythema, edema, and tenderness of the leg).

Image File: 1468-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_547454f18d972.jpg

**F - Congestive heart failure** - Patients with decompensated heart failure can develop acute dyspnea due to pulmonary edema. However, this patient does not have other typical manifestations of this condition such as a cough, crackles, wheezing, cyanosis, and edematous, cold, clammy skin. Moreover, though heart failure can cause a pleural effusion on chest x-ray, the resulting opacities typically develop bilaterally.

Image File: 1468-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fd8c6b0afdfb.jpg

**G - Pneumothorax** - Pneumothorax can cause acute dyspnea and diminished breath sounds over the affected lung field. However, this patient does not have other typical manifestations of this condition such as unilateral, stabbing, and pleuritic chest pain. Moreover, chest x-ray of patients with a pneumothorax shows a visible visceral pleural line with absent lung markings and increased radiolucency in the area of lung collapse.

Image File: 1468-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_51da8221ce404.jpg

