### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Pulmonary fibrosis** - Pulmonary fibrosis is the result of radiation-induced lung injury in patients who have received radiotherapy. In these cases, radiation pneumonitis occurs 4–12 weeks after the completion of radiation therapy. Pulmonary fibrosis usually develops > 6 months post-radiation therapy due to the chronic inflammation and scarring of lung tissue. This leads to a pattern of restrictive lung disease, with decreased DLCO seen on pulmonary function testing (PFT), as is the case here.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bronchiectasis** - Bronchiectasis can manifest with dyspnea and cough, which are seen in this patient, and is associated with smoking. However, pulmonary function testing would reveal a pattern of obstructive lung disease, unlike the pattern of restrictive lung disease seen in this patient.

**B - Pulmonary arterial hypertension** - Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is often asymptomatic in the early stages of the disease, but patients may also present with dyspnea and coughing. PAH affects the hydrostatic values of the pulmonary circulatory system and would not affect spirometry values.

**C - Chronic bronchitis** - Chronic bronchitis can manifest with a cough and dyspnea and is associated with a history of smoking. However, pulmonary function testing would reveal a pattern of obstructive lung disease, unlike the pattern of restrictive lung disease seen in this patient.

**D - Pulmonary emphysema** - Pulmonary emphysema can manifest with a cough and shortness of breath, which are seen in this patient, and is associated with a history of smoking. However, pulmonary function testing would reveal a pattern of obstructive lung disease, unlike the pattern of restrictive lung disease seen in this patient.

**E - Allergic asthma** - Allergic asthma can manifest with dyspnea and coughing, which are seen in this patient, and is also associated with smoking and atopic dermatitis. It is characterized by acute exacerbations of symptoms and wheezing upon auscultation. However, pulmonary function testing would reveal a pattern of obstructive lung disease, unlike the pattern of restrictive lung disease seen in this patient.

**G - Pulmonary embolism** - This patient's history of smoking and malignancy are risk factors for pulmonary embolism, which can also manifest with dyspnea and cough. However, pulmonary embolism does not affect spirometry values, and the FEV1 and FEV1/FVC ratio would remain normal.

