### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Squamous cell carcinoma** - Squamous cell lung carcinoma (SCC) is the most likely diagnosis in this patient. SCC is strongly associated with smoking and typically affects the central parts of the lung and may present with hypercalcemia as a result of the production of parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP). On histology, SCC is a solid, epithelial tumor that can have intercellular bridges and keratin pearls. SCC was the most common type of lung cancer prior to the mid-1980s. Nowadays, however, lung adenocarcinoma is the most common lung cancer overall (up to 50% of cases). SCC accounts for about 25–35% of lung cancer cases.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Large cell carcinoma** - Large cell lung carcinoma, a non-small cell lung cancer, is a peripheral tumor that is characterized by late metastases and carries a poor prognosis. On histology, large cell carcinoma is characterized by poorly differentiated, pleomorphic giant cells. Although large cell carcinoma is associated with smoking, it is less common than other associated types of cancer and this patient's nodule is centrally located anyway.

**B - Carcinoid tumor** - Bronchial carcinoid tumor is typically characterized by hilar or perihilar opacities. Patients can develop carcinoid syndrome characterized by diarrhea, flushing, dyspnea, and wheezing. These symptoms are absent in this patient. Additionally, he has a positive smoking history and carcinoid bronchial carcinoma is usually not associated with smoking.

**C - Adenocarcinoma** - Lung adenocarcinoma is the most common lung cancer overall but it typically affects the peripheral parts of the lungs. It may also lead to hypertrophic osteoarthropathy (clubbing of fingers and toes, painful swelling in joints and long bones). On histology, adenocarcinoma is seen as a glandular tumor with mucin-producing cells.

**E - Small cell lung carcinoma** - SCLC typically affects the central parts of the lungs. It is a very aggressive tumor with early metastases. On histology, SCLC is characterized by small, dark blue tumor cells with hyperchromatic nuclei and scarce cytoplasm. Although SCLC is strongly associated with smoking, it is not the most common lung cancer seen in smokers.

**F - Metastasis of colorectal cancer** - Colorectal cancer may metastasize hematogenously to the liver, lungs, bone, and brain and can spread lymphatically to mesenteric, para-aortic, and pelvic lymph nodes. Patients typically present with constitutional symptoms, iron deficiency anemia, and diarrhea (in right-sided CRC), or changes in bowel habits, blood-streaked stools, and colicky abdominal pain (in left-sided CRC). Although the patient in the vignette has a positive family history of colon cancer, he does not have any of the typical symptoms, which makes the diagnosis of colorectal cancer unlikely. Additionally, although single nodules are possible, pulmonary metastasis is typically associated with multiple nodules on a chest x-ray.

