### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Glucose of 30 mg/dL** - Pleural fluid glucose levels < 60 mg/dL suggest an exudate. In patients with a parapneumonic effusion, pleural fluid glucose levels typically decrease following increased glucose metabolization by leukocytes and bacteria. Therapeutic thoracentesis is used to treat empyema when glucose is in this range. Other conditions associated with an exudative pleural effusion include malignancies (e.g., mesothelioma), tuberculosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and SLE. Pleural fluid glucose levels ≥ 60 mg/dL suggest a transudate (e.g., due to congestive heart failure).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Amylase of 200 U/L** - Increased pleural fluid amylase levels (≥ upper limit of normal serum amylase) are associated with esophageal rupture (e.g., secondary to repeated vomiting), pancreatic diseases (e.g., acute pancreatitis), and certain malignancies (e.g., lung cancer). Pleural fluid amylase levels are not routinely obtained but should be measured if esophageal rupture or pancreatic disease is suspected. This patient's clinical and radiological findings indicate exudative parapneumonic effusion, which does not manifests as an amylase-rich pleural effusion.

**B - pH of 7.5** - Pleural fluid pH values > 7.4 suggest transudative pleural effusion. This patient's history of coronary artery disease and hypertension put him at increased risk for congestive heart failure and subsequent development of pleural transudate. However, the presence of fever, pleuritic chest pain, and a loculated fluid collection on imaging raise concern for an exudative parapneumonic effusion of an infectious etiology, which typically manifests with pleural fluid pH values of < 7.20.

**C - Lymphocytosis of > 90%** - Pleural fluid lymphocytosis with a lymphocyte value ≥ 90% is associated with tuberculosis and certain malignancies (e.g., lymphoma) that may also manifest with fever, cough, and dyspnea. However, because this patient does not have other symptoms of tuberculosis or malignancy, such as weight loss, night sweats, fatigue, or lymphadenopathy, he is more likely to have a neutrophilic (not lymphocytic), parapneumonic effusion.

**D - Pleural fluid LDH/serum LDH ratio of 0.5** - One of Light's criteria of pleural effusions is pleural fluid LDH/serum LDH ratio. For transudative effusions, this ratio is ≤ 0.6 for transudate. This patient's history of coronary artery disease and hypertension put him at increased risk for congestive heart failure and subsequent development of pleural transudate. His clinical and radiological findings, however, indicate exudative parapneumonic effusion, which typically manifests with a pleural fluid LDH/serum LDH ratio of > 0.6.

**E - Hematocrit of 30%** - Pleural fluid hematocrit levels > ½ serum hematocrit levels indicate hemothorax, which can be caused by trauma and nontraumatic conditions such as pulmonary embolism, malignancy, and tuberculosis. This patient has a recent history of thoracic trauma (passing out in the street), but the absence of evidence for rib fractures on imaging indicates a relatively low-energy trauma, making hemothorax much less likely. The clinical presentation is most concerning for pneumonia, which would be an unlikely cause of hemothorax but is commonly implicated in the development of infectious pleural collections.

**F - Lactate dehydrogenase of 45 U/L** - Per Light's criteria, a pleural fluid lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level < ⅔ of the upper limit of normal serum LDH levels (200 U/L) indicates that an effusion is a transudate. This patient's history of coronary artery disease and hypertension puts him at increased risk for congestive heart failure and subsequent development of pleural transudate. However, given the concern for empyema, his clinical and radiological findings indicate exudative parapneumonic effusion. An exudate typically manifests with LDH levels > ⅔ of the upper limit of normal serum LDH levels.

**H - Pleural fluid protein to serum protein ratio of 0.4** - One of Light's criteria of pleural effusions is pleural fluid protein to serum protein ratio, which is ≤ 0.5 for transudate. This patient's history of coronary artery disease and hypertension put him at increased risk for congestive heart failure and subsequent development of pleural transudate. His clinical and radiological findings, however, indicate exudative, parapneumonic effusion, which typically manifests with a pleural fluid protein to serum protein ratio of > 0.5.

