### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Elevated carboxyhemoglobin level in blood** - An elevated blood level of carboxyhemoglobin (COHb) confirms carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning. CO is a colorless, odorless, and tasteless gas that can leak from a malfunctioning furnace. CO has a greater affinity for hemoglobin (Hb) than oxygen does, so when it binds to Hb it reduces Hb's oxygen-carrying capacity and shifts the oxygen dissociation curve to the left, thereby decreasing O2 release in tissues. This leads to tissue hypoxia and metabolic acidosis, as seen here. Note that PaO2 is normal as it reflects the amount of dissolved O2 in the blood, which is not affected by CO. Likewise, SaO2 will be normal if a standard pulse oximeter is used as those cannot differentiate between COHb and oxyhemoglobin. Symptoms of CO poisoning are variable and depend on the COHb level. Nausea, headache, and dizziness are common early signs. After exposure to high levels of CO, patients may develop a cherry-red skin tone, but this finding is more commonly seen postmortem. Treatment includes supportive care, 100% O2, and occasionally hyperbaric oxygen therapy.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Calcium oxalate crystals in urinalysis** - Calcium oxalate crystals can be detected in urinalysis of patients following intoxication with ethylene glycol, a substance found in industrial products such as antifreeze solutions and windshield wiper fluid. Poisoning may occur due to ingestion as an ethanol substitute, as a suicide attempt or by accident. Clinical presentation includes an altered mental status and metabolic acidosis, as seen in this patient. Although this patient has a history of depression, which increases the risk of self-harm behavior, she lacks other key findings of ethylene glycol toxicity, including sweet-smelling breath, flank pain, hematuria, and tetany. Moreover, red discoloration of the skin is not typically associated with ethylene glycol poisoning.

**B - Focal parenchymal hypoattenuation on CT scan of the head** - A focal parenchymal hypoattenuation on a CT scan of the head can be seen in patients with acute ischemic stroke. This patient has a history of atrial fibrillation, which increases her risk of thromboembolic disease. Headache, nausea, dizziness, and impaired consciousness are possible symptoms of a cerebrovascular event. However, an ischemic stroke is unlikely in the setting of warfarin therapy with a therapeutic INR (2 to 3). Moreover, when an ischemic stroke occurs in a patient with a therapeutic INR, it is typically a lacunar infarct manifesting with focal neurologic deficits (e.g., hemiparesis), which is not seen here.

**C - Elevated cyanide concentration in serum** - An elevated serum cyanide blood concentration can be found in patients that have been exposed to combustion reactions of plastics, upholstery, rubber, and other nitrogen-containing products, most commonly as a result of house fires. Patients with cyanide poisoning can present very similarly to this patient, with nausea, headache, dizziness, altered mental status, skin flushing, and metabolic acidosis on arterial blood gas analysis. However, cyanide poisoning is unlikely in this case as there is no history of a fire at the scene.

**D - Elevated methemoglobin level in blood** - An elevated blood level of methemoglobin (MetHb) typically results from exposure to substances that increase intrinsic production of MetHb (e.g., nitrate-containing drinking water, certain drugs such as nitroglycerin, sulfonamides, and topical anesthetics). In methemoglobinemia, PaO2 is often normal despite evidence of poor tissue oxygenation (i.e., metabolic acidosis), as the amount of dissolved O2 in the blood is unchanged by the presence of MetHb. Likewise, SaO2 will be normal if a standard pulse oximeter is used as those cannot differentiate between methemoglobin and oxyhemoglobin. Symptoms of methemoglobinemia include headache, nausea dizziness, and lethargy, as seen here. However, it manifests with cyanosis rather than the skin redness seen in this case. Additionally, this patient has no history that suggests ingestion of precipitating agents.

**E - QRS prolongation on electrocardiogram** - Prolongation of the QRS complex on an electrocardiogram can be seen in individuals with tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) overdose. This patient has a history of depression, which increases her risk for suicide attempt with toxic ingestion of her prescribed TCA, amitriptyline. TCA toxicity can cause mental status changes, as well as skin flushing, as seen in this case. However, this patient lacks other common symptoms of TCA overdose, particularly findings of anticholinergic toxicity. Moreover, her initial symptoms of nausea, headache, and dizziness are not typically associated with TCA toxicity.

