### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Decreased diffusing capacity** - Conditions that interfere with the ability of the alveoli to exchange gases with pulmonary capillaries decrease the carbon monoxide diffusing capacity of the lung (DLCO). This patient's symptoms of worsening shortness of breath, dry cough, dysphagia, and Raynaud phenomenon suggest systemic sclerosis (SSc), which is classified into limited SSc and diffuse SSc. Diffuse SSc frequently causes pulmonary disease, as seen here. Pulmonary involvement is the leading cause of death in patients with diffuse SSc and usually manifests as pulmonary arterial hypertension and/or interstitial lung disease. As seen in this patient, interstitial lung disease causes progressive dyspnea and dry cough. Collagen deposition in the walls of alveoli decreases the diffusing capacity of lungs.

Image File: 1487-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fec77adc6856.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Decreased right atrial pressure** - This patient with signs and symptoms of systemic sclerosis is at risk of developing pulmonary hypertension. Right-sided filling pressures increase as a result of pulmonary hypertension and an increase in right ventricular afterload. An increase rather than decrease in right atrial pressure is thus likely to ensue.

**B - Increased lung compliance** - Restrictive lung diseases increase the elastic recoil of lungs and impair their ability to expand, thus causing decreased lung compliance. This patient with connective tissue disease likely has restrictive lung disease and, therefore, decreased rather than increased lung compliance.

**D - Increased airway resistance** - Airway resistance is the resistance of the pulmonary tree to airflow during inspiration and expiration. Airway resistance is a parameter for airway obstruction that is typically increased in obstructive lung disease. However, systemic sclerosis presents with a restrictive pattern of lung involvement and, therefore, airway resistance would be normal rather than increased.

**E - Decreased A-a gradient** - The alveolar-arterial (A-a) gradient compares the oxygenation status of alveoli and arterial blood. While the A-a gradient is normal in cases of hypoventilation and low levels of inspired oxygen, it becomes elevated when V/Q mismatch, shunting and limited diffusion occur. This patient with signs and symptoms of systemic sclerosis is at risk of lung fibrosis which presents with an increased A-a gradient.

