### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Increased alveolar-arterial gradient** - An increased alveolar-arterial gradient (A-a gradient) is seen in patients with PE. This condition causes mechanical obstruction of the pulmonary artery, which results in ischemic segments of the lung that are ventilated but not perfused, causing a ventilation-perfusion mismatch. Oxygen is not effectively transferred from the alveoli to the arteries in these segments, causing alveolar oxygen concentrations to be higher than arterial oxygen concentrations (i.e., increased A-a gradient).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Decreased left ventricular contractility** - Decreased left ventricular contractility can be seen following a myocardial infarction, which can manifest with sudden chest pain, dyspnea, and bibasilar crackles on auscultation, as seen here. However, an ECG would show other findings (e.g., ST-segment shifts, T-wave inversions). This patient's findings are more suggestive of PE, which does not affect left ventricular contractility. Although cardiac output might be decreased in patients with PE, this is usually secondary to decreased right ventricular output caused by the embolic obstruction.

**B - Increased PaO2/FiO2 ratio** - The ratio of arterial oxygen partial pressure (PaO2) to fractional inspired oxygen (FiO2) administered to the patient is generally used as a clinical indicator for hypoxemia, and is usually decreased rather than increased in patients with PE. A decreased PaO2/FiO2 ratio is also used as a diagnostic criterion for acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS); it is associated with increased mortality in both ARDS and PE.

**C - Increased functional residual capacity** - An increase in functional residual capacity (FRC) is seen in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). This patient's new-onset dyspnea, smoking history, and bibasilar crackles on lung auscultation could indicate an acute COPD exacerbation. However, patients with COPD have an increased rather than decreased PCO2. Moreover, other features of COPD, such as cough and wheezing on pulmonary examination, are not seen here.

**D - Decreased central venous pressure** - Central venous pressure (CVP) is measured in the right atrium or in the superior vena cava and is typically increased rather than decreased in patients with PE due to increased pulmonary vascular resistance (caused by mechanical obstruction of the pulmonary arteries). CVP is usually decreased in patients with volume depletion (e.g., hemorrhagic shock, hypovolemic shock) and in conditions involving widespread vasodilation (e.g., sepsis, neurogenic shock).

