### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Neurofibroma** - Neurogenic tumors (e.g., neurofibromas and schwannomas) account for the majority of posterior mediastinal masses (∼ 60%). Intrathoracic neurofibromas usually manifest in young adults (20–30 years), typically with chest pain caused by mass effect upon the chest wall. Although neurofibromas are benign, large masses can cause a dry cough (due to compression of the lung), hoarseness (due to compression of the recurrent laryngeal nerve), or dysphagia (due to compression of the vagus nerve). As in this case, constitutional symptoms (i.e., fever and weight loss) are usually absent and laboratory studies are typically normal.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Esophageal cancer** - Esophageal cancer often manifests as a middle and/or posterior mediastinal mass. Affected patients typically present with dysphagia and weight loss; hoarseness would be uncommon. In addition, esophageal cancer usually manifests in middle to late adulthood (45–75 years old) rather than young adulthood.

**B - Thymoma** - Although a thymoma may manifest with cough due to mass effect, it develops in the anterior mediastinum. This patient's signs are confined to the posterior mediastinum.

**D - Teratoma** - Teratomas are benign germ cell tumors that are usually asymptomatic but can cause cough due to mass effect. Unlike here, they are generally found in the anterior mediastinum and have CT findings of a heterogeneous mass containing multiple tissue types (e.g., fat, fluid, bone).

**E - Aortic aneurysm** - Intrathoracic cardiovascular structural anomalies (e.g., aortic aneurysm, pulmonary artery aneurysm, or vascular ring) usually manifest as masses in the middle and/or posterior mediastinum. Aortic aneurysm usually manifests as left-sided masses, not the right-sided mass seen in this case. In addition, while aortic aneurysms are better visualized on contrast-enhanced chest CT, the mass in this patient is clearly visualized as a separate entity from the intrathoracic aorta.

**F - Bronchogenic cyst** - Bronchogenic cysts result from abnormal development of the foregut and can manifest with symptoms caused by mass effect (e.g., chest pain, cough, dysphagia, and vomiting). Unlike what's seen here, they generally develop found in the middle mediastinum. In addition, foregut cysts manifest in young children (< 15 years old), not in young adults.

