### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Haemophilus influenzae** - Haemophilus influenzae is among the most common pathogens responsible for lobar CAP. H. influenzae is a gram-negative coccobacillus that occurs in encapsulated/typeable and nonencapsulated/nontypeable forms. Nontypeable strains account for the majority of cases of H. influenzae CAP, as the incidence of pneumonia from encapsulated strains has significantly decreased since the introduction of the H. influenzae type b (Hib) conjugate vaccine. However, elderly patients who may not have received the vaccine are still at risk for severe Hib infections (such as pneumonia). Elderly patients and patients with underlying pulmonary diseases (i.e., chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cystic fibrosis) are most susceptible to H. influenzae pneumonia. Other gram-negative pathogens that can cause CAP include Moraxella catarrhalis and Klebsiella pneumoniae.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Legionella pneumophila** - Legionella pneumophila is a gram-negative bacteria that causes Legionnaires' disease, which can manifest with fever, chills, and unilateral lobar pneumonia. However, this pathogen requires a silver stain to be seen on microscopic examination. Moreover, Legionella pneumophila is a bacillus, whereas this patient's sputum Gram stain shows coccobacilli. Finally, Legionnaires' disease classically causes diarrhea and neurological findings (i.e., confusion, agitation, stupor), none of which are present in this patient.

**B - Mycoplasma pneumoniae** - Mycoplasma pneumonia is a common cause of CAP. However, Mycoplasma pneumonia is not visible on Gram stain because it lacks a cell wall. Furthermore, this pathogen typically causes interstitial, atypical pneumonia, not lobar pneumonia.

**C - Klebsiella pneumoniae** - Klebsiella pneumoniae is a gram-negative bacteria that can cause severe, lobar CAP. Furthermore, this patient has type 2 diabetes mellitus, which is a known risk factor for infection with this pathogen. However, Klebsiella pneumoniae is a bacillus, whereas this patient's sputum Gram stain shows coccobacilli.

**D - Escherichia coli** - Escherichia coli is a gram-negative bacteria that can cause lobar pneumonia. Although E. coli is typically associated with hospital-acquired pneumonia, this pathogen can also cause severe cases of CAP that require ICU admission. However, E. coli is a bacillus, whereas this patient's sputum Gram stain shows coccobacilli.

**E - Moraxella catarrhalis** - Moraxella catarrhalis is a gram-negative bacteria that typically causes upper respiratory tract infections and can occasionally cause pneumonia. However, Moraxella catarrhalis is a diplococcus whereas this patient's sputum Gram stain shows coccobacilli. Finally, this pathogen classically causes bronchopneumonia rather than lobar pneumonia.

**G - Streptococcus pneumoniae** - Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common pathogen causing lobar CAP in adult and elderly patients. However, Streptococcus pneumoniae is a gram-positive diplococcus, whereas this patient's sputum Gram stain shows gram-negative coccobacilli.

**H - Pseudomonas aeruginosa** - Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a gram-negative bacteria that can cause lobar pneumonia. Although Pseudomonas aeruginosa is typically associated with hospital-acquired pneumonia and pneumonia in patients with cystic fibrosis, this pathogen can also cause severe cases of CAP that require ICU admission (similar to this patient's presentation). However, Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a bacillus, whereas this patient's sputum Gram stain shows coccobacilli.

