### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - A history of ischemic stroke** - Ischemic stroke predisposes to aspiration pneumonia by possibly impairing the swallowing and/or cough mechanism. It is therefore recommended that patients with stroke be given food and water only after evaluation by a specialist.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Living in an assisted-living community** - Living in an assisted-living community is a risk factor for pneumonia because of the advanced age and reduced functional status of the inhabitants as well as exposure to other sick contacts within the community. However, living in an assisted-living community does not predispose to aspiration pneumonia specifically and this woman has a more significant risk factor that should be considered.

**B - History of smoking** - A history of smoking would predispose an individual to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which can be a risk factor for aspiration pneumonia. However, this woman does not have other features of COPD, such as a chronic cough, wheezing, or a barrel chest, making COPD an unlikely cause of her aspiration pneumonia.

**C - Past history of alcohol abuse** - Past history of alcohol abuse may put the patient at risk for many different conditions, such as hepatic dysfunction and cerebral atrophy. However, only current alcohol abuse could be considered a risk factor for aspiration pneumonia, as it may temporarily result in reduced reflexes.

**D - Untreated hypertension** - Untreated hypertension can be a risk factor for stroke, as well as for cardiovascular diseases that can affect pneumonia outcomes. However, on its own, untreated hypertension is not a risk factor for pneumonia.

**F - Gastritis** - Gastritis commonly presents with epigastric abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting. Complications of gastritis include bleeding ulcers and gastric carcinomas. However, gastritis does not predispose to aspiration pneumonia, as there is no reflux associated with gastritis.

