### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Administer isoniazid** - In an asymptomatic patient with a positive IFN-γ release assay or tuberculin skin test, treatment for latent TB infection is indicated if high-risk factors for TB (e.g., immigration from a highly endemic region within the last 5 years) are present. The recommended regimen for treating latent TB among children is a 9 month course of isoniazid. Because isoniazid competes with pyridoxine in neurotransmitter synthesis, pyridoxine (vitamin B6) should be added to every treatment regimen that includes isoniazid to avoid adverse effects (e.g., peripheral neuropathy, sideroblastic anemia).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform PCR on gastric aspirate** - The procedure for obtaining a gastric aspirate is very uncomfortable for patients because it requires the insertion of a Rile's tube. Examination of the gastric aspirate is therefore only performed if the patient does not produce enough sputum for examination, or if sputum collection is difficult (e.g., very young children).

**B - Perform CT scan of the chest** - In a patient with a positive IFN-γ release assay, a chest CT may be performed to confirm the diagnosis if the patient is symptomatic (e.g., cough, respiratory distress, fever, night sweats) but the chest x-ray is inconclusive (e.g., normal chest x-ray, ill-defined infiltrate, isolated hilar lymphadenopathy). A CT scan of the chest is not required since the patient is asymptomatic and the chest x-ray is normal.

**C - Perform acid-fast stain on induced sputum** - Examination of induced sputum via acid-fast microscopy or PCR is indicated when active pulmonary TB is suspected. In an asymptomatic, immunocompetent patient, a normal chest x-ray effectively rules out active pulmonary TB, even if the IFN-γ release assay is positive. This patient has no evidence of immunodeficiency (e.g., oral candidiasis, HIV positive status); examination of induced sputum is therefore unnecessary.

**E - Reassurance and follow up** - In a patient with a positive IFN-γ release assay, reassurance and follow-up may be appropriate if the patient does not have any high-risk factors for TB. This patient who immigrated from a high-prevalence region less than 5 years ago is considered at high-risk for latent TB infection, so a different step must be considered.

**F - Perform tuberculin skin test** - A tuberculin skin test is not required since a more specific IFN-γ release assay has already been performed.

**G - Administer isoniazid, rifampin, ethambutol and pyrazinamide** - A regimen of isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol for 2 months followed by a 4 month course of isoniazid and rifampin would be indicated for the treatment of active TB infection. This patient with a positive IFN-γ release assay has latent TB because she is asymptomatic and has a normal chest x-ray; a different step must therefore be considered.

