### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Collect sputum specimens for acid-fast bacilli smear microscopy, culture, and nucleic acid amplification** - The analysis of sputum specimens is the easiest and least invasive way to confirm suspected active pulmonary TB. Patients with suspected active TB are required to submit 3 sputum specimens, with each one used for culture, acid-fast bacilli smear microscopy, and nucleic acid amplification. The last two tests are useful for rapidly identifying active tuberculosis. Bacterial culture is necessary to confirm the diagnosis and test for drug sensitivity.

Image File: 1497-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e8c82296e9a2.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Wait for culture and sensitivity results** - Sputum cultures are the gold standard for diagnosing active pulmonary TB and for testing drug sensitivity. The latter is important because of a growing number of drug-resistant bacteria. However, it can take up to six weeks until culture results are available and false negatives are possible. Because there is a high index of suspicion for active tuberculosis in this patient, he should not await sputum culture results before starting empirical treatment.

**B - Perform a high-resolution CT scan of the chest** - A high-resolution CT scan of the chest could be performed to further evaluate pulmonary processes (e.g., lesions that are potentially cancerous). This patient's chest x-ray has already provided sufficient evidence of pulmonary findings consistent with TB. Further imaging studies are not necessary at this point.

**C - Start treatment with oral levofloxacin** - Oral levofloxacin can be used for outpatient treatment of community-acquired pneumonia. However, the chest x-ray findings in this patient and the fact that he has immigrated from an area with a high prevalence of tuberculosis make pulmonary TB more likely than CAP. He should be treated for TB, for which oral levofloxacin would not be appropriate.

**E - Perform transbronchial lung biopsy of the suspected lesion** - Transbronchial lung biopsy may be considered in patients with pulmonary lesions that are suspicious for pulmonary cancer. It is an invasive procedure and therefore not routinely done to confirm TB. Bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage could be performed, but it is usually reserved for when suspicion for TB is high and other methods of confirming the diagnosis have failed.

**F - Start treatment with isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol** - Combination therapy consisting of isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol is the treatment of choice for active tuberculosis for the first 2 months of treatment and should be started empirically if active infection is suspected. However, before initiating empirical antibiotic therapy, an important step is required to ensure that a definitive diagnosis can be made later on.

**G - Perform an interferon-gamma release assay** - An interferon-gamma release assay can be used to diagnose latent TB. This patient has findings that potentially indicate active TB. His interferon-gamma release assay would most likely be positive but not provide any additional information.

