### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - 80/130** - 80/130 reflects the PPV. The PPV is calculated as TP/(TP + FP) or TP/all patients who tested positive, where TP represents the true positives and FP the false positives. In this case PPV = 80/(80 + 50) = 80/130 ≈ 62%. Based on this study, the PPV suggests that if an individual has rales on auscultation, the likelihood of that patient truly being in a hypervolemic state is approx. 62%.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - 80/100** - 80/100 reflects the sensitivity (epidemiology) of the test, i.e. the probability that the test (rales) is positive if the condition (hypervolemia) is present. Sensitivity (epidemiology) is calculated as TP/(TP + FN) or TP/all patients with the condition, where TP is true positives and FN is false negatives. In this case: sensitivity = 80/(80 + 20) = 80/100 = 80%. Based on this study, 80% of hypervolemic patients will have rales on auscultation.

**B - 50/100** - 50/100 reflects the specificity of the test, i.e. the probability that the test (rales) is negative if the condition (hypervolemia) is absent. The specificity is calculated as TN/(TN + FP) or TN/all patients without the condition, where TN represents true negative and FP is false positives. In this case: specificity = 50/(50 + 50) = 50/100 = 50%. Based on this study, there is a 50% chance for euvolemic patients to have rales on auscultation, making this test inappropriate to effectively exclude this condition in euvolemic patients. A test with such a low specificity causes high rates of false positives (e.g., rales due to congestive heart failure, pneumonia, ARDS).

**D - 50/70** - 50/70 reflects the NPV, i.e. the likelihood that a patient with a negative test result (no rales) truly does not have the disease (i.e., is euvolemic). NPV is calculated as TN/(TN + FN) or TN/all patients who tested negative, where TN is true negatives and FN is false negatives. In this case: NPV = 50/(50 + 20) = 50/70 ≈ 71.4%. Based on this study, if a patient does not have rales on auscultation, the likelihood of being in an euvolemic state is approx. 71.4%.

**E - 100/200** - 100/200 is the prevalence of cases with hypervolemia in the overall population of 200 patients. The prevalence is calculated as the number of people with a condition/total number of people studied. In this case, prevalence = 100/200 = 50%. Accordingly, 50% of the study population are in a state of hypervolemia.

