### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Voriconazole** - Intravenous voriconazole is usually the drug of choice for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis, a serious fungal infection that typically involves the respiratory tract. Although symptoms can vary, the classic presentation is hemoptysis, fever, and pleuritic chest pain in an immunosuppressed patient. Treatment should be initiated empirically if invasive aspergillosis is strongly suspected, as the infection has a very high mortality rate. Diagnosis is confirmed by bronchoalveolar lavage and/or biopsy with histopathological identification of septate hyphae branching dichotomously at 45° angles.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole** - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) can be used to treat Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, which should always be considered in an immunosuppressed patient with cough, fever, and hypoxia. However, the presence of galactomannan antigen suggests aspergillosis, a fungal infection for which TMP-SMX is ineffective.

**B - Ceftriaxone and azithromycin** - The combination of ceftriaxone and azithromycin is commonly used for the empiric therapy of community-acquired pneumonia in patients with comorbidities (e.g., malignancy). While this patient's productive cough and fever are concerning for pneumonia, he is neutropenic and the presence of galactomannan antigen in the serum suggests aspergillosis, necessitating a different therapy strategy.

**C - Piperacillin-tazobactam** - Piperacillin-tazobactam, a beta-lactam antibiotic with anti-pseudomonas activity, is commonly used for the empiric therapy of healthcare-associated pneumonia if risk factors for resistant pathogens or Pseudomonas infection are present. However, while this patient is at risk of Pseudomonas infection (given his structural lung disease and neutropenia), the presence of galactomannan antigen suggests aspergillosis, a fungal infection for which piperacillin-tazobactam is ineffective.

**D - Ceftazidime and levofloxacin** - The combination of levofloxacin with a late-generation cephalosporin such as ceftazidime can be used as empiric therapy for patients with pneumonia and risk factors for Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection. Although this patient is at risk of Pseudomonas infection (given his structural lung disease and neutropenia), the presence of galactomannan antigen is suggestive of aspergillosis, a fungal infection for which neither ceftazidime nor levofloxacin is effective.

**E - Rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol** - A combination of rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol is used to treat Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which can also present with hemoptysis, dyspnea, and fever. This patient's neutropenia and pre-existing lung disease are also risk factors for active pulmonary tuberculosis. However, the acute clinical presentation and the positive serum galactomannan antigen is suggestive of aspergillosis.

**F - Caspofungin** - In a patient with invasive aspergillosis, echinocandins such as caspofungin are only indicated if first-line therapy fails. Although this patient's neutropenia and presence of galactomannan antigen are suggestive of invasive aspergillosis, an alternate treatment regimen is more appropriate.

