### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Chronic pulmonary aspergillosis** - This patient's x-ray findings are consistent with an aspergilloma, one of the forms of chronic pulmonary aspergillosis (CPA). Aspergillus colonizes preexisting cavities and forms a fungal ball, which is not attached to the surrounding tissue and can, therefore, be moved by repositioning the patient. CPA is most commonly seen in individuals who are immunocompromised (e.g., due to HIV infection) and those with previous pulmonary pathologies, especially cavitary lung disease (e.g., resulting from tuberculosis). CPA can manifest with shortness of breath, cough, hemoptysis, as well as constitutional symptoms such as weight loss and fatigue. Positive serology for Aspergillus IgG antibodies is crucial to establish the diagnosis. CPA should be treated with itraconazole or voriconazole, and surgical resection is indicated in patients with aspergilloma.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Reactivation tuberculosis** - Patients with HIV infection are at increased risk of developing reactivation tuberculosis, which can manifest with productive cough, shortness of breath, weight loss, and cavitary lung lesions. However, an intracavitary mass that shifts position when the patient moves is not expected in tuberculosis. Moreover, patients with reactivation tuberculosis typically present with fever and night sweats.

Image File: 1504-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60fee3b72d2e1.jpg

**B - Histoplasmosis** - Patients with HIV infection are at increased risk of developing histoplasmosis, which can manifest with weight loss and pulmonary symptoms. Cavitary lung lesions are rare, however, and the most common x-ray findings include diffuse, interstitial infiltrates and hilar lymphadenopathy, none of which are seen here. Moreover, this patient has no history of traveling to endemic areas (e.g., the Mississippi and Ohio River valleys).

**C - Lung adenocarcinoma** - Lung adenocarcinoma can manifest with productive cough, shortness of breath, and weight loss, and a pulmonary mass is usually seen on chest x-ray. However, an intracavitary mass that shifts position when the patient moves is not expected; this finding is suggestive of a different condition.

Image File: 1504-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_601013d539c37.jpg

**E - Lung abscess** - Lung abscesses can manifest with productive cough with brownish sputum, shortness of breath, and weight loss, and an intraparenchymal cavity is usually seen on chest x-ray. However, patients with lung abscesses are usually acutely ill and present with high fever, chills, and night sweats. Moreover, an intracavitary air-fluid level rather than a mobile mass would be expected.

Image File: 1504-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a426dd02adcf.jpg

**F - Pneumocystis pneumonia** - Patients with HIV infection are at increased risk of developing pneumocystis pneumonia, which can manifest with a gradual onset of cough, shortness of breath, and weight loss. However, chest x-ray typically shows symmetrical, diffuse interstitial infiltrates extending from the perihilar region rather than a mobile, intracavitary mass. Moreover, this condition is more common in patients with a CD4+ T-lymphocyte count < 200/mm3.

Image File: 1504-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60ec86a18a4b3.jpg

