### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Reactivation of a latent infection** - The patient's findings (fever, night sweats, productive cough, and a cavitary lesion in the left upper lung lobe) and history of IV drug use are consistent with reactivation of latent pulmonary tuberculosis infection. The initial focus of infection with M. tuberculosis, the Ghon complex, is usually contained by the host's immune response, and the bacteria may remain dormant in granulomas for many years. During periods of relative immunodeficiency, the latent bacilli become active and proliferate, causing reactivation tuberculosis, which usually affects the apical segments of the lung as seen in this patient.

Image File: 1506-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60fee3b72d2e1.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Aspiration of oral flora** - Aspiration of oral flora is a common cause of aspiration pneumonia. Though aspiration pneumonia can manifest with fever and cough, symptoms are usually acute and severe. Moreover, radiologic studies of aspiration pneumonia classically show infiltrates in the dependent parts of the lung, not a single cavitary lesion in the upper lobe.

**B - Exposure to contaminated hot water tanks** - Exposure to contaminated hot water tanks is a common source of Legionella pneumophila, which causes Legionnaires' disease. Legionnaires' disease can manifest with fever and cough, but symptoms are usually acute and severe. Moreover, the radiographic features of Legionnaires' disease classically include interstitial infiltrates in the lungs, not cavitary lesions.

**D - Embolization of a bacterial vegetation** - Embolization of bacterial vegetations to the lungs can occur in individuals with bacterial endocarditis, which this patient has an increased risk for because of his history of IV drug use. While septic embolization to the lungs can manifest with fever, cough, and night sweats, symptoms are usually acute and severe. Moreover, radiologic studies (e.g., CT pulmonary angiography) classically show an intraluminal filling defect of the pulmonary arteries; the presence of a wedge-shaped infarction with pleural effusion is a highly specific finding. A single cavitary lesion in the upper lobe, as seen in this patient, would not be expected.

**E - Close contact with pigeon droppings** - Contact with pigeon droppings is a mechanism for transmission of Histoplasma capsulatum, which causes histoplasmosis. Histoplasmosis can manifest with fever, cough, and night sweats, similar to what is seen in this patient. While histoplasmosis can occasionally also cause cavitation of the lung, its pathogen is predominantly endemic to the Mississippi and Ohio River valleys. Moreover, the radiographic features of histoplasmosis classically include parenchymal infiltrates and/or hilar and mediastinal lymphadenopathy, which are not described here.

