### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Mycoplasma pneumoniae** - Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection is most common in individuals living in crowded environments (e.g., prisons, military barracks) and those younger than 30 years of age. It manifests with atypical pneumonia, a cold agglutinin reaction, and a rash, as seen in this patient. The cold agglutinin reaction is due to IgM antibodies produced in response to the microbe cross-reacting with an antigen on the host RBC, which causes hemolytic anemia and Raynaud phenomenon. This phenomenon typically resolves spontaneously with treatment (e.g., a macrolide antibiotic) and resolution of the infection.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Legionella pneumophila** - Legionella pneumophila can manifest with features of atypical pneumonia (e.g., dry cough, fever, fatigue, myalgia), which are seen in this patient’s case. Outbreaks of legionellosis have been reported among military recruits as a result of exposure to a contaminated water source. However, legionellosis is classically associated with gastrointestinal and/or neurological symptoms, neither of which is seen in this patient. Moreover, legionellosis would not account for this patient’s cutaneous lesions, Raynaud phenomenon, or anemia.

**B - Blastomyces dermatitidis** - Blastomyces dermatitidis can cause features of atypical pneumonia (e.g., dry cough, fever, fatigue, myalgia) as well as cutaneous lesions, which are seen in this patient’s case. However, these cutaneous lesions are typically papules, pustules, or nodules that evolve into ulcers over the course of weeks. These differ significantly from the erythema multiforme lesions described here. Moreover, B. dermatitidis is endemic to the Eastern and Central US, but not the Southwest. It would also not account for this patient’s Raynaud phenomenon or anemia.

**C - Adenovirus** - Adenovirus is common among military recruits, and infection can cause symptoms of viral pneumonia (e.g., dry cough, fever, fatigue, myalgia) and erythema multiforme. However, Raynaud phenomenon and anemia would not be expected in adenovirus infection.

**E - Streptococcus pneumoniae** - Streptococcus pneumoniae is one of the most common causes of community-acquired pneumonia. Although it can cause cough, fatigue, and myalgias, which are seen in this patient, pneumococcal pneumonia typically causes production of rust-colored sputum and high fever. Furthermore, it would not explain the cutaneous lesions, Raynaud phenomenon, or anemia seen in this case.

**F - Chlamydophila pneumoniae** - Chlamydophila pneumoniae can manifest with features of atypical pneumonia (e.g., dry cough, fever, fatigue, myalgia), which are seen in this patient’s case. However, Chlamydophila pneumoniae infection would not account for this patient’s Raynaud phenomenon or anemia. Instead, patients typically have upper respiratory tract symptoms (e.g., laryngitis) prior to the onset of pneumonia symptoms.

**G - Coccidioides immitis** - Coccidioides immitis is endemic to California and can cause features of atypical pneumonia (e.g., dry cough, fever, fatigue, myalgia) and erythema multiforme, which are seen in this patient’s case. However, coccidioidomycosis would not account for this patient’s Raynaud phenomenon or anemia.

**H - Influenza virus** - Influenza virus can cause features of viral pneumonia (e.g., dry cough, fever, fatigue, myalgia). However, pneumonia caused by the influenza virus is typically seen in elderly or immunocompromised patients. Additionally, infection with the influenza virus would not explain this patient’s cutaneous lesions, Raynaud phenomenon, or anemia.

**I - Epstein-Barr virus** - Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) can cause erythema multiforme, Raynaud phenomenon, and hemolytic anemia secondary to cold agglutinin reaction, which are seen in this patient’s case. However, lower respiratory symptoms (e.g., cough) are extremely rare in EBV infection. Instead, patients typically present with hepatosplenomegaly, cervical lymphadenopathy, and pharyngitis.

**J - Respiratory syncytial virus** - Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) can cause symptoms of viral pneumonia (e.g., dry cough, fever, fatigue, myalgia). However, RSV pneumonia typically occurs in children. Moreover, it would not account for Raynaud phenomenon or anemia, which are both seen in this patient.

