### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Decreased ratio of ventilated alveoli** - In patients with bibasilar atelectasis, collapsed alveoli are unable to participate in gas exchange, allowing venous blood to pass into the arterial circulation without becoming oxygenated, which results in a right-to-left shunt. The alveolar-arterial gradient is increased because of the ventilation-perfusion mismatch.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increased anatomic dead space** - Anatomic dead space refers to the proportion of the airway that does not participate in gas exchange (e.g., nasopharynx, trachea, etc). Anatomic dead space is not affected by atelectasis and would not explain this patient's hypoxemia.

**B - Decreased hemoglobin oxygen-binding capacity** - A decreased hemoglobin oxygen-binding capacity (e.g., due to carbon monoxide poisoning or methemoglobinemia) can cause hypoxemia. However, atelectasis does not affect hemoglobin oxygen-binding capacity.

**C - Increased tidal volume** - Increased tidal volume would result in increased ventilation and improved oxygenation, rather than hypoxemia, as seen in this patient. Exercises to increase tidal volume (e.g., using an incentive spirometer) are commonly used to prevent and correct atelectasis.

**E - Increased rate of oxygen consumption** - The rate of oxygen consumption is increased in states of high-energy expenditure (e.g., exercise, severe illness, sepsis) and usually leads to a compensatory increase in ventilation (e.g., increase in respiratory rate and/or tidal volume) to prevent hypoxemia. This patient does not have any history to suggest increased oxygen consumption.

**F - Decreased chest wall compliance** - Decreased chest wall compliance (e.g., due to scoliosis, respiratory muscle paralysis, trauma, or frailty) can lead to hypoxemia as a result of impaired ventilation and may occur parallel to atelectasis. However, hypercapnia would also be expected.

