### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Mesothelioma** - Mesothelioma is the second most common malignancy (after bronchogenic carcinoma) associated with chronic asbestos exposure, which can occur in individuals working in the insulation industry. Patients typically present with characteristic symptoms of pleural involvement (e.g., pleuritic chest pain, exertional dyspnea, nonproductive cough, dullness on chest percussion, decreased breath sounds, asymmetric chest expansion during respiration) and systemic symptoms (e.g., fatigue, weight loss). A CT scan of the chest usually shows diffuse pleural thickening with decreased ipsilateral lung volumes, which is also seen here. Although surgery and chemotherapy may provide symptomatic relief, the prognosis remains poor with a mean survival of approx. 12 months after diagnosis.

Image File: 1514-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d906d05cd.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Secondary tuberculosis** - Secondary tuberculosis can also manifest with pleuritic chest pain, exertional dyspnea, cough, fatigue, and weight loss. However, asymmetric chest expansion during respiration, unilaterally decreased breath sounds, and dullness on chest percussion are uncommon. In addition, a CT scan of a patient with secondary tuberculosis typically shows thick-walled cavitary lesions, centrilobular nodules, and patchy consolidations of the upper lobes rather than the unilateral nodular pleural thickening seen here. Furthermore, this patient has no known history of Mycobacteria exposure and does not have any risk factors (e.g., HIV infection, poorly controlled diabetes mellitus) for tuberculosis reactivation.

Image File: 1514-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60fee3b72d2e1.jpg

**C - Chronic silicosis** - Chronic exposure to silica dust can result in the development of interstitial lung disease, which can also manifest with pleuritic chest pain, exertional dyspnea, cough, fatigue, and weight loss. However, asymmetric chest expansion during respiration, unilaterally decreased breath sounds, and dullness on chest percussion are uncommon. Patients with chronic silicosis typically present with diffuse bilateral ground-glass opacities and bilateral perihilar calcifications (eggshell calcifications) on chest CT scan rather than diffuse pleural thickening on the left, which is seen here. Furthermore, this patient used to work in the wiring industry, which is not associated with silica exposure.

Image File: 1514-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5c4f425c1934d.jpg

**D - Lung abscess** - A lung abscess can also manifest with pleuritic chest pain, exertional dyspnea, cough, fatigue, weight loss, and dullness on chest percussion. However, asymmetric chest expansion during respiration is uncommon and patients typically present with fever, foul-smelling purulent sputum, and increased rather than decreased breath sounds. In addition, a CT scan usually shows thick-walled, intraparenchymal cavities with air-fluid levels rather than the unilateral nodular pleural thickening seen here. Furthermore, lung abscesses most commonly develop as a result of aspiration, for which this patient has no risk factors.

Image File: 1514-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a426dd02adcf.jpg

**E - Small cell lung cancer** - Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) can develop in individuals with a prolonged history of smoking and chronic exposure to asbestos. Although SCLC can also manifest with exertional dyspnea, cough, fatigue, and weight loss, the tumor is most commonly central and is less likely to manifest with pleuritic chest pain, dullness on chest percussion, or decreased breath sounds, all of which are more characteristic of peripheral tumors. In addition, patients with SCLC typically present with an irregular, central mass with perihilar node involvement rather than the unilateral nodular pleural thickening seen here.

Image File: 1514-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_614199d677ca7.jpg

