### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Tension pneumothorax** - This patient's pleuritic chest pain, dyspnea, and chest x-ray findings (collapsed right lung and mediastinal shift to the contralateral side) after multiple penetrating injuries to the chest indicate a tension pneumothorax. This condition is caused by air trapping in the pleural space, which, if severe enough, can compress the adjacent structures (e.g., contralateral lung, mediastinum) and impair venous return to the heart. This can cause life-threatening cardiopulmonary collapse, which manifests with severe hypotension, tachycardia, and dyspnea. Emergency needle thoracostomy, followed by chest tube placement, is the first-line treatment for patients with suspected tension pneumothorax.

Image File: 1517-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5faf2f22015bb.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cardiac tamponade** - Cardiac tamponade is a severe complication of chest trauma and can manifest with a sudden onset of chest pain, dyspnea, tachypnea, and hypotension, all of which are seen here. However, a chest x-ray would show an enlarged heart silhouette (a water bottle sign in the case of large effusions) with clear lungs rather than mediastinal shift, depressed right hemidiaphragm, and widened right intercostal spaces. Moreover, in addition to hypotension, cardiac tamponade usually causes muffled heart sounds and distended neck veins (Beck triad), none of which is described here.

Image File: 1517-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_508c11f38545c.jpg

**B - Pulmonary contusion** - A pulmonary contusion can develop following blunt chest trauma and manifest with respiratory distress and chest pain, both of which are present here. However, chest x-ray typically shows diffuse patchy alveolar infiltrates and white-out or diffuse opacities, not a mediastinal shift, depressed right hemidiaphragm, and widened right intercostal spaces.

**C - Pneumomediastinum** - Pneumomediastinum can occur following penetrating chest trauma and manifests with respiratory distress, cough, and chest pain, all of which are seen here. However, a chest x-ray typically shows a radiolucent outline around the mediastinal structures. Moreover, pneumomediastinum also manifests with subcutaneous emphysema and the Hamman sign, neither of which is described here.

Image File: 1517-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ffe947858f1d.jpg

**E - Diaphragmatic hernia** - An acquired diaphragmatic hernia can be caused by blunt or penetrating thoracoabdominal trauma and usually manifests with the sudden onset of respiratory distress and chest pain, which this patient has. However, a chest x-ray typically shows hemidiaphragm elevation rather than depression, and a chest translucency or opacity with an air-fluid level (representing the stomach or bowel) would also be expected in a patient with an acquired diaphragmatic hernia.

**F - Flail chest** - A flail chest can result from blunt trauma and would explain this patient's acute onset of dyspnea, tachypnea, and the presence of chest ecchymoses. However, this condition is typically characterized by paradoxical chest movement, which this patient does not have. Moreover, the chest x-ray does not show any rib fractures, which makes the diagnosis unlikely.

Image File: 1517-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e8dfdb2d5566.jpg

