### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Case-control study** - Case-control studies are ideal to study conditions like uncommon subtypes of anti-NMDA encephalitis because they are the most economical way to study a rare disease and its associated risk factors. The comparison to a control group without anti-NMDA encephalitis helps determine the presence of risk factors that might be associated with the disease. To assess the strength of association between a risk factor and disease, the odds ratio is reported. Unlike in cohort studies, in case-control studies the outcome is determined first (here: anti-NMDA encephalitis), and then the presence of an association with a risk factor (here: ovarian teratomas) is assessed, retrospectively.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cross-sectional study** - A cross-sectional study would determine the prevalence of teratomas and anti-NMDA encephalitis at a specific point in time, but would not allow to draw a conclusion on chronological correlations (e.g., show that ovarian teratoma precedes anti-NMDA encephalitis).

**B - Prospective cohort study** - A prospective cohort study would follow a large group of individuals over a period of time until they developed anti-NMDA encephalitis. As the subject of investigation here is an uncommon subtype of anti-NMDA encephalitis, such a study would be costly and time-consuming.

**C - Case series** - A case series describes the clinical course of similar cases but does not allow drawing conclusions about causal relationships. At best, a hypothesis can be suggested based on several observed cases. Moreover, a case series would be very susceptible to selection bias because there are no comparator groups.

**E - Randomized controlled trial** - Randomized controlled trials are used to test a treatment or intervention against another one (e.g., placebo). Here, no randomization or intervention is indicated; only observation and analysis are necessary to properly assess for the presence of an association between ovarian cancer and anti-NMDA encephalitis.

**F - Retrospective cohort study** - Retrospective cohort studies can be used to study rare diseases, and they are relatively inexpensive, as they mainly collect and analyze data from the past. However, retrospective cohort studies determine the risk factor first (in this case, ovarian teratoma), and then evaluate the outcome (in this case, new cases of anti-NMDA encephalitis). This researcher has already determined the outcome (i.e., anti-NMDA encephalitis) and now wants to see what risk factors are associated with it. Furthermore, while a rare disease as this subtype of anti-NMDA encephalitis could theoretically be studied in a retrospective cohort study, its low incidence would make it time-consuming and impractical to find a group of patients with ovarian teratomas and determine via chart review how many of these eventually developed anti-NMDA encephalitis.

