### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Secondary bacterial infection** - The lack of improvement in this patient's symptoms over the course of 2 weeks suggests acute bacterial rhinosinusitis, which is typically caused by a secondary bacterial infection. Acute bacterial rhinosinusitis is most commonly a result of a preexisting viral URI. Viral URIs cause ostial obstruction and dysfunction of the mucociliary apparatus, which in turn promote the inoculation of bacteria and the development of sinusitis. The most common causative organisms of acute bacterial rhinosinusitis are S. pneumoniae, nontypeable H. influenzae, and M. catarrhalis. Diagnosis is usually clinical and first-line treatment consists of oral amoxicillin with or without clavulanate for 5–10 days.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Foreign body obstruction** - A foreign body lodged in the nasal cavity can cause symptoms such as purulent nasal discharge, nasal congestion, and facial pain due to local inflammation and secondary infection (i.e., rhinosinusitis). However, in most cases, nasal discharge is unilateral and foul-smelling. Moreover, there is nothing in this patient's history to suggest that a foreign body was inserted.

**B - Allergic reaction** - An allergic reaction in the form of allergic rhinosinusitis can manifest with nasal congestion and facial pain, which are seen in this patient. However, further symptoms of allergy (e.g., sneezing, pruritus, conjunctivitis) would be expected. Moreover, the acute onset of fever and purulent nasal discharge in this patient do not suggest allergic rhinosinusitis.

**C - Nasal polyposis** - Nasal polyps can manifest with bilateral nasal obstruction and may be a predisposing factor for acute rhinosinusitis, which this patient has. However, nasal polyps are not typically seen in children, and chronic (i.e., > 12 weeks) rather than acute rhinosinusitis is more common with nasal polyps. Furthermore, other characteristic findings of nasal polyps, such as postnasal drip and impaired olfactory function, are absent in this patient.

**E - Invasive fungal infection** - An invasive fungal infection can be caused by fungi such as Aspergillus spp., Fusarium spp., and Mucorales spp., and can lead to acute rhinosinusitis, which this patient has. However, fungal rhinosinusitis most commonly develops in immunocompromised individuals (e.g., those with poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, steroid use), which is not the case here. Furthermore, patients with an invasive fungal infection commonly present with acute, severe features (more common with Mucorales spp.) such as cranial nerve palsies, facial swelling, erythema, and proptosis, or with chronic sinusitis (i.e., symptoms lasting > 12 weeks).

