### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Ibuprofen therapy** - This patient's history of subacute pleuritic chest pain, fever, and a friction rub on chest auscultation, in combination with normal chest x-ray, ECG, and serum D-dimer findings, is highly suggestive of viral pleurisy. Typical causative pathogens are influenza, coxsackieviruses, adenovirus, parainfluenza, respiratory syncytial virus, Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus, and mumps. This condition usually is self-limited and resolves within 3–4 weeks. The treatment is supportive and includes pain management with NSAIDs (e.g., ibuprofen, indomethacin). Patients who are intolerant to NSAIDs can be treated with corticosteroids.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Azithromycin therapy** - Azithromycin therapy is a treatment option for community-acquired pneumonia in areas with a pneumococcal macrolide resistance < 25%. Bacterial pneumonia can manifest with pleuritic chest pain, fever, and a friction rub (if pleurisy is present), all of which are seen in this patient. However, patients with bacterial pneumonia usually present with productive cough and crackles on auscultation and opacities, patchy infiltrates, and air bronchograms on chest x-ray, none of which is seen here.

**C - Thoracocentesis** - Thoracocentesis may be indicated in patients with pleural effusion (e.g., in large effusions), which can accompany pleurisy. However, this patient has no auscultatory or chest x-ray findings suggestive of pleural effusion, so thoracocentesis is not indicated.

**D - Intercostal nerve blocks** - Intercostal nerve blocks can be used in the management of patients with pleuritic chest pain due to rib fractures. This patient has no history of trauma and no chest x-ray findings suggestive of a rib fracture. Moreover, focal tenderness on palpation of the chest wall would be expected, and it is not seen here.

**E - Colchicine therapy** - Colchicine can be used in the treatment of patients with pericarditis, which manifests with subacute pleuritic chest pain, fever, and a friction rub on chest auscultation, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, patients with pericarditis experience pain relief upon leaning forward, and the ECG usually shows diffuse ST elevations, ST depression in aVR and V1, and PR segment depression in II, III, and aVF, none of which is seen here.

**F - CT angiography** - A CT angiography is indicated in patients with a high pretest probability of pulmonary embolism (PE) or D-dimer levels ≥ 500 ng/mL. PE can manifest with pleuritic chest pain, similar to what is seen in this patient. Furthermore, the use of contraceptive pills is a risk factor for this condition. However, the symptoms in PE usually have an acute onset unlike the subacute onset of symptoms in this patient. Moreover, this patient has a low pretest probability of PE (modified Wells score for PE ≤ 4) and normal D-dimer levels, which makes this condition unlikely.

