### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Hepatocellular carcinoma** - About 40% of patients with AAT deficiency develop significant liver damage and cirrhosis, which are common precursors to HCC, although progression to HCC can also occur in the absence of cirrhosis in these patients. In contrast to the enhanced protease activity leading to excessive breakdown of elastin that causes early-onset emphysema, liver disease is thought to occur due to toxic accumulation of the misfolded AAT protein in hepatic tissue, which significantly increases the risk of liver damage, cirrhosis, and HCC.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-positive vasculitis** - ANCA-associated vasculitis with antibodies directed against either myeloperoxidase (MPO-ANCA) or proteinase-3 (PR3-ANCA) typically involves small vessels. Because alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) inhibits PR3 activity, current hypotheses suggest that the lack of AAT in patients with A1AD leads to excessive PR3-mediated tissue destruction, and in turn is more likely to induce an autoimmune response. However, there is currently no evidence to support an increased risk of developing ANCA-positive vasculitis in AAT-deficient individuals.

**C - Bronchiolitis obliterans** - Bronchiolitis obliterans, which occurs as a result of repeated cycles of inflammation and scarring in the small airways, is typically due to inhalation of toxic fumes, graft-versus-host disease in lung transplant patients, or chronic lung infections. However, alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency is not associated with an increased risk of bronchiolitis obliterans.

**D - Inflammatory bowel disease** - Patients with IBD can have associated respiratory complications, including parenchymal disease and airway inflammation, likely through the same underlying inflammatory changes affecting the bowel. While bronchiectasis seems to be the most common pulmonary manifestation of IBD, it would present with a productive cough and only nonspecific bronchial wall thickening on imaging, neither of which occur in this patient. Furthermore, A1AD does not increase the risk of developing IBD.

**E - IgA nephropathy** - IgA nephropathy is a rare complication in patients with A1AD. When it is seen, it usually occurs alongside liver cirrhosis, which is most likely due to poor clearance of IgA-containing complexes by Kupffer cells in the cirrhotic liver, leading to increased deposition of IgA in the kidneys.

**F - Pulmonary fibrosis** - Pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is an interstitial lung disease that is most commonly idiopathic in origin. Occupational hazards (e.g., silicosis), chemotherapeutic agents (e.g., bleomycin), smoking, and infectious diseases (e.g., tuberculosis) significantly increase the risk of progressing to irreversible fibrosis. However, A1AD is not associated with an increased risk of IPF.

**G - Bronchogenic carcinoma** - A1AD does not lead to higher rates of lung cancer. While some case studies have suggested that A1AD could be associated with a higher risk of lung cancer, there is no high-quality evidence of such an association.

