### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Intranasal azelastine** - Intranasal azelastine, a topical antihistamine, is a first-line treatment option for vasomotor rhinitis (VR). In addition to blocking H1 histamine receptors, azelastine also stabilizes mast cells, prevents eosinophil activation, and inhibits proinflammatory cytokine production, thereby relieving the symptoms of rhinorrhea and nasal congestion of VR. This patient should also be encouraged to avoid known triggers of VR, which include certain medications (e.g., NSAIDs) and strong odors (e.g., perfume). Intranasal glucocorticoids (e.g., fluticasone) are further first-line treatment options for VR. Saline nasal irrigation and nasal decongestants (e.g., pseudoephedrine) may be added as adjunctive therapies.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Radioallergosorbent testing** - A radioallergosorbent test (RAST) can be used to identify allergen-specific IgE in patients with allergic rhinitis who do not respond to empirical therapy and if cutaneous testing is unavailable or inconvenient. Allergic rhinitis can manifest with persistent rhinorrhea and nasal congestion, as seen here. However, patients with allergic rhinitis typically present with prominent ocular symptoms (itchy, and watery eyes), sneezing, and an itchy nose and throat. Moreover, symptoms are typically worse in springtime and examination would show normal or pale greyish nasal mucosa. In contrast, vasomotor rhinitis is not the result of an IgE-mediated process; performing allergy testing is therefore not necessary at this point.

**B - Oral phenylephrine** - Oral phenylephrine is a nasal decongestant that can be used for additional symptomatic relief of vasomotor rhinitis in patients who are already on primary therapy. This patient should receive adequate first-line treatment before adding adjunctive therapies. Chronic or excessive use of oral decongestants can lead to rhinitis medicamentosa, and, therefore, they are only used intermittently on an as needed basis.

**C - Oral diphenhydramine** - Oral antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine, are used as adjunctive therapy in patients with allergic rhinitis that is not adequately controlled with intranasal steroids or intranasal antihistamines. Allergic rhinitis can manifest with persistent rhinorrhea and nasal congestion, as seen here. However, patients with allergic rhinitis typically present with prominent ocular symptoms (itchy, and watery eyes), sneezing, and an itchy nose and throat. Moreover, symptoms are typically worse in springtime and examination would show normal or pale greyish nasal mucosa. This patient's clinical presentation is more consistent with vasomotor rhinitis, which does not respond to treatment with oral antihistamines.

**E - Percutaneous allergy testing** - Referral for percutaneous allergy testing is indicated in patients with allergic or nonallergic symptoms of chronic rhinitis that do not adequately respond to appropriate empiric medication. This patient's clinical presentation is consistent with a diagnosis of vasomotor rhinitis; a trial of empiric therapy can therefore be initiated without performing allergy testing.

**F - Resection of nasal turbinates** - Resection of nasal turbinates (turbinectomy) to relieve chronic nasal obstruction can be performed in patients with allergic and nonallergic rhinitis that is refractory to treatment with multiple medications. Turbinectomy is not an appropriate first-line treatment for vasomotor rhinitis.

