### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Reassurance and follow-up** - Reassurance and follow-up are sufficient, as erythema infectiosum is typically a self-limited condition in immunocompetent children. In < 10% of children, parvovirus B19-associated arthritis can occur, which typically manifests in the joints of the fingers, hands, knees, and ankles and resolves after 3–4 weeks. Analgesics and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents can be used supportively.

Image File: 1528-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ebbc451dc09a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Throat swab and empiric oral penicillin V therapy** - A throat swab and empiric oral penicillin V therapy are appropriate management steps for scarlet fever, which can manifest with a rash that appears after the onset of fever. However, the rash seen in scarlet fever typically has a sandpaper texture, begins on the neck (not the cheeks) before spreading, and spares the palms and soles. Scarlet fever also causes pharyngitis and cervical lymphadenopathy, which this patient does not have.

Image File: 1528-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb56ed724fa6.jpg

**B - Oral prednisone therapy** - A short course of oral prednisone is used to treat parvovirus B19-associated arthritis. Although this child has a parvovirus B19 infection (erythema infectiosum), there is no evidence of associated arthritis, which typically manifests as arthralgia with symmetric, nondestructive polyarthritis in the fingers, hands, knees, and ankles. Parvovirus B19-associated arthritis is uncommon in children, occurring in < 10% of cases.

**C - Serology for pathogen-specific antibody titers** - In immunocompetent patients, serology for pathogen-specific antibody titers (e.g., IgG or IgM antibodies against parvovirus B19) is performed if the diagnosis is unclear (nonclassic presentation) or definitive etiologic diagnosis is necessary to determine the next steps in management. However, this patient presents with classic clinical features of erythema infectiosum, management recommendations for which are not affected by serologic confirmation.

**D - Echocardiography, intravenous immunoglobulin, and aspirin therapy** - Echocardiography, intravenous immunoglobulin, and aspirin therapy are appropriate management steps for Kawasaki disease, which typically manifests with fever and a rash. However, the fever associated with Kawasaki disease typically persists for > 5 days, and the rash usually starts on the trunk, not the face. In addition, this patient does not have other typical findings of Kawasaki disease, such as conjunctivitis, stomatitis with chapped lips and a strawberry tongue, and cervical lymphadenopathy.

Image File: 1528-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60aba00e7d68b.jpg

