### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Nonaccidental trauma** - This patient's bruises on the upper extremity are most likely caused by nonaccidental trauma due to elderly abuse. The elderly, especially those with dementia, are at increased risk for abuse. Elderly abuse is most commonly perpetrated by caregivers (e.g., spouse, nursing home staff), and can be physical, psychological, financial, or take the form of neglect. Physicians are legally and ethically obligated to report suspected elder abuse. When a physician suspects elder abuse, they should privately speak with the affected patient, inquire further, and offer assistance.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Platelet aggregation inhibition** - Bruises due to platelet aggregation inhibition can be seen in patients on antiplatelet agents. Bruising is most commonly seen in female patients > 60 years old, who have been recently started on antiplatelets (< 1 month). This patient with no history of antiplatelet use, Alzheimer disease, normal platelet count and coagulation studies, and bruises in different stages of healing (localized to the upper extremity) is more concerning for an alternative cause.

**B - Intravascular coagulation with fibrinolysis** - Intravascular coagulation with fibrinolysis is consistent with a consumptive coagulopathy such as DIC. This patient with bruises localized to the upper extremities, normal platelet count, coagulation studies, and no evidence of systemic disease (e.g., as sepsis, trauma, or malignancy) is unlikely to have DIC.

**C - Increased activity of epidermal melanocytes** - Increased activity of epidermal melanocytes is seen in solar lentigo. Solar lentigines are commonly found on sun-exposed areas including the back of the hands, forehead, and scalp, not the upper arms. The affected skin shows solitary or multiple dark, sharply demarcated, pigmented macules due to melanin, rather than purple/reddish poorly demarcated lesions due to hemoglobin breakdown.

**E - Vitamin K deficiency** - Vitamin K deficiency causes large ecchymoses, as seen in this patient, and deep tissue bleeding (e.g., hemarthrosis, hematomas). However, it is unlikely in this patient with normal coagulation studies.

Image File: 1529-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d972fcf0397c.jpg

