### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Confounding** - The results of this study are likely due to confounding. The correlation between smoking and Barrett esophagus is no longer statistically significant after controlling for acid reflux. Acid reflux is a confounder because it affects both the dependent variable/outcome (Barrett esophagus) and independent variable/exposure to a risk factor (smoking). Rather than a true association existing between smoking and Barrett esophagus, the results of this study suggest that the increased prevalence of acid reflux among smokers may explain the apparent association between smoking and Barrett esophagus in the unadjusted analysis. To minimize confounding during study design, stratification, randomization, and/or matching can be used. Good study design includes anticipating potential confounders.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Random error** - The p-value < 0.05 (here: p < 0.001) indicates that the likelihood that the association between smoking and Barrett esophagus is just due to chance or random error is smaller than 5%. However, after looking at another risk factor (acid reflux), the significant association between smoking and Barrett esophagus disappears, indicating a different kind of error.

**B - Effect modification** - Effect modification refers to a phenomenon in which the magnitude of the effect of an exposure on the incidence of disease is influenced by a third factor. For instance, the grand rounds presentation that the gastroenterology fellow attended suggests effect modification (“smokers are only at increased risk for Barrett esophagus in the presence of acid reflux”). If a statistically significant relationship existed between smoking and Barrett esophagus in patients with acid reflux, but the relationship did not hold in patients without acid reflux, this would be an example of effect modification. Instead, the relationship between smoking and Barrett esophagus is no longer statistically significant after adjusting for acid reflux.

**D - Selection bias** - It is certainly possible that the two groups in this study are not comparable because of selection bias. However, this would not explain why the significant association between smoking and Barrett esophagus disappeared when acid reflux was factored out.

**E - Stratification** - Stratification is a method of study design used to prevent confounding. The population is first divided/stratified by a particular characteristic (i.e., a possible confounding variable) and then randomized. However, this approach does not explain why the relationship between the variables (smoking and Barrett esophagus) does not hold when a third variable (acid reflux) is examined.

**F - Matching** - In epidemiology, matching is a method of study design used to prevent confounding. However, this approach does not explain why the relationship between the variables (smoking and Barrett esophagus) does not hold when a third variable (acid reflux) is examined.

