### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Dermatofibroma** - Dermatofibroma is a fibroblast proliferation resulting in a small, fibrous, benign dermal growth. Asymptomatic, slow-growing, skin-colored or brownish nodules of ∼ 3–10 mm diameter can arise anywhere on the body, but are most common on the lower extremities. Dimple sign (Fitzpatrick's sign), as seen in this patient, is characteristic of dermatofibroma. Treatment is usually not required. Excision can be considered for cosmetic reasons, symptomatic lesions, or suspicion of malignancy.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Dysplastic nevus** - Dysplastic nevus is an atypical mole that is assessed based on the ABCDE criteria. It is typically an evolving lesion with an asymmetric shape, irregular borders, inconsistent color, and diameter that is usually > 6 mm in size. The short history of and dimpling sign in this patient's skin lesion is suggestive of another etiology.

Image File: 1531-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_547f3a550a77d.jpg

**B - Common wart** - Common warts (verruca vulgaris) are flesh-colored, rough, scaly papules or plaques with a hyperkeratotic surface. They are most commonly located on the hands, feet, and/or knees and dimpling would not be expected.

Image File: 1531-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9176e6af.jpg

**D - Cherry hemangioma** - Cherry hemangiomas (Campbell de Morgan spots) are an acquired cutaneous vascular anomaly that appears as bright cherry-red, dome-shaped papules or macules. Multiple lesions are common, which are usually located on the trunk or upper extremities. Dimpling would not be expected.

**E - Actinic keratosis** - Actinic keratosis (AK) is a precancerous skin lesion that typically occurs in individuals with light skin over the age of 50 years. The lesion is initially small with a rough, sandpaper-like surface, that grows slowly in size and becomes erythematous and scaly. The rapid appearance of this patient's skin lesion and the dimpling sign are suggestive of another etiology.

Image File: 1531-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_54106abfc6a5f.jpg

**F - Seborrheic keratosis** - Seborrheic keratosis appears as multiple, sharply demarcated, darkly pigmented papules or plaques that have a greasy, wax-like and stuck-on appearance. They are most common in the elderly population and are primarily located on the trunk, hands, forearms, and face. Dimpling would not be expected.

