### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Pregnancy** - Melasma (chloasma) is a benign disorder characterized by irregular, patchy hyperpigmentation of the skin that is most commonly seen in women of reproductive age. Hormonal changes (e.g., pregnancy, oral contraceptive use) seem to play an important role in the development of this condition. Melasma can be triggered and/or exacerbated by exposure to sunlight. Avoiding sunlight and/or applying sunscreen during pregnancy can prevent or slow the progression of melasma. Topical treatment with depigmenting agents such as hydroxyquinone may be used in severe cases.

Linea nigra and areolar darkening can also develop during pregnancy as a result of endocrine changes but, unlike melasma, these two forms of cutaneous hyperpigmentation are not associated with sun exposure.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Enzyme defect** - Nonclassic congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) and porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT) are examples of conditions that are caused by enzyme defects and associated with adult-onset hyperpigmentation. In PCT, hyperpigmentation occurs in sun-exposed regions, such as the face, and it manifests in a melasma-like pattern, as seen here. However, patients with PCT have a history of increased skin fragility and blistering, which is not reported by this patient. The hyperpigmentation of CAH typically occurs in areas that are not sun-exposed, such as the areola, genitalia, axilla, palms, and oral mucous membranes. Moreover, female patients with nonclassic CAH usually have virilizing features (e.g., hirsutism, androgenic alopecia, acne), which are not seen here. It is unlikely that this patient's skin findings are caused by an enzyme defect.

**B - Autoimmunity** - Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disease that typically affects middle-aged women and can manifest with skin lesions on sun-exposed areas, as seen here. However, patients with SLE typically have a malar erythematous rash with sparing of the nasolabial folds, rather than the hyperpigmented macules seen here. Moreover, individuals with SLE usually have additional symptoms such as arthralgia, fatigue, fever, and/or weight loss, none of which are seen here. This patient's skin findings are not the result of autoimmunity.

Image File: 1532-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5523c36e9eb81.jpg

**C - Fungal infection** - Tinea versicolor, which caused by the dimorphic fungus Malassezia furfur, can lead to hypopigmented or hyperpigmented macules that can worsen with sun exposure, as seen in this patient. However, tinea versicolor commonly involves the upper trunk and proximal upper extremities and usually does not manifest on the face. This patient's skin findings are not the result of a fungal infection.

Image File: 1532-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d933e2d70.jpg

**E - Insulin resistance** - Insulin resistance is associated with acanthosis nigricans, which is characterized by velvety hyperpigmentation of skin folds (e.g., axilla, nape of the neck) and does not involve the face. This patient's skin findings are not the result of insulin resistance.

Image File: 1532-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60d889f2af052.jpg

**F - Hypersensitivity** - Atopic dermatitis (AD) and allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) are examples of cutaneous hypersensitivity reactions. In adults, AD can manifest as hyperpigmented lesions, but these lesions are typically found on the flexor surfaces of extremities, not the face, and would be lichenified. Moreover, patients with AD have a history of recurrent flares of pruritic, scaly, erythematous lesions on the face and extensor surfaces during infancy, and on the flexural creases during childhood. ACD caused by UV light (photoallergy), poison ivy (urushiol contact dermatitis), or cosmetic products can affect the face. The history of recent travel and enlargement of the lesions in summer can suggest photoallergy but, as with AD, individuals experiencing a first episode of ACD would have erythematous rather than hyperpigmented macules. It is unlikely that this patient's skin findings are caused by a hypersensitivity reaction.

