### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Start oral acyclovir therapy** - Oral acyclovir is the first-line therapy for immunocompetent patients with herpetic gingivostomatitis who are unable to eat or drink because of the severe pain caused by oral lesions. Acyclovir reduces early viral replication and viral shedding, which decreases the duration and severity of the infection when administered within 4 days of symptom onset. Supportive care alone is indicated in patients who present > 4 days after symptom onset, as antiviral therapy only prevents early viral replication. Antiviral therapy cannot treat latent infections or prevent disease recurrence. Additional treatment measures for herpetic gingivostomatitis include adequate hydration, analgesia, antipyretics, prevention of lip adhesions through barrier creams (e.g., petroleum jelly), and antibiotics for secondary bacterial infections.

Immunocompromised patients with herpetic gingivostomatitis should receive IV acyclovir regardless of symptom duration, and hospitalization may also be required.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Discontinue lamotrigine therapy** - Lamotrigine can trigger Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), which can manifest with painful oral vesicles, erosions, and fever. However, SJS typically develops shortly after initiation of lamotrigine therapy, rather than several years later, and manifests with cutaneous (e.g., targetoid erythematous macules), ocular (e.g., conjunctivitis, corneal ulcers), and urogenital (e.g., urethritis, erosive vaginitis) features.

Image File: 1533-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60e5a72b93e3e.jpg

**B - Start oral fluconazole therapy** - Oral fluconazole therapy is used to treat oral candidiasis, which is a common adverse effect associated with the use of corticosteroid inhalers, and can cause discomfort when eating. However, oral candidiasis typically manifests with white pseudomembranes in the oral cavity as opposed to lip erosions and tongue vesicles, and fever is uncommon.

**D - Provide supportive care only** - Supportive care alone (i.e., adequate analgesia and fluid intake) is generally only considered in immunocompetent patients with herpetic gingivostomatitis who present > 4 days after symptom onset. Patients who present within 4 days of symptom onset benefit from treatment with an agent that decreases the duration and severity of infection.

**E - Apply triamcinolone cream** - Triamcinolone cream is used in the treatment of Behçet disease, which can manifest with painful oral lesions and fever. However, patients with Behçet disease typically develop aphthous ulcers, rather than oral vesicles, and usually present with genital ulcers, ocular disease (e.g., uveitis, keratitis), skin lesions (e.g., erythema nodosum, pyoderma gangrenosum), and arthritis.

