### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Potassium hydroxide preparation** - A potassium hydroxide (KOH) preparation should be performed in this patient to confirm the diagnosis of pityriasis versicolor, which appears as “meatballs” (round yeast cells) and “spaghetti” (long hyphae) on KOH preparation. Pityriasis versicolor is most commonly caused by the fungi Malassezia globosa and Malassezia furfur. Patients often become aware of the disease after sun exposure because the lesions do not tan and become more visible against the recently tanned surrounding skin.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Dermoscopy** - Dermoscopy may be used ancillary in patients with pityriasis versicolor, where it shows well-demarcated, white areas with fine whitish scaling localized in the skin furrows. It does not confirm the diagnosis. Dermoscopy is also used to exclude malignant lesions such as melanoma and basal cell carcinoma. However, neither of the two lesions causes widespread hypopigmentation, nor would they spread so rapidly and superficially.

**B - Wood lamp examination** - A Wood lamp examination may reveal a coppery-orange or yellow fluorescence that indicates pityriasis versicolor, but only in ∼ 30% of cases, making it a poor confirmatory test.

**C - Thyroid stimulation hormone** - Measurement of TSH is the best first test to diagnose hypothyroidism. Hashimoto thyroiditis is the most common cause of hypothyroidism and is strongly associated with vitiligo. Vitiligo can present with well-demarcated hypopigmented macules, but they are not pruritic or scaly, like the lesions seen here. Additionally, this patient has no clinical features of hypothyroidism, such as constipation, bradycardia, myxedema, fatigue, cold intolerance, or a hoarse voice.

**D - Skin culture** - Skin culture is commonly used for fungal or bacterial infections if the diagnosis is unclear after performing more rapid tests. Although skin cultures are cost-effective, they are time-consuming and can delay adequate treatment. In pityriasis versicolor skin culture is often reported to be negative, since Malassezia globosa and Malassezia furfur, the pathogens causing pityriasis versicolor, are difficult to grow under laboratory conditions.

**F - Skin biopsy** - Skin biopsy is an important test in cases of suspected skin infection or malignancy. While an infection with Mycobacterium leprae may also present with hypopigmented patches on the shoulders, other symptoms of leprosy such as loss of sensation, muscle weakness, poor eyesight, and painless lumps on the face or earlobes would also be expected. Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma as well may present with hypopigmented patches, but this variant predominates in children rather than in a 21-year old man. Classic cutaneous T-cell lymphoma presents with red, scaly, pruritic, well-demarcated skin plaques and patches, and mushroom-shaped tumors, lymphadenopathy and hepatosplenomegaly in the later stages of the disease. Histopathological evaluation would show atypical CD4+ T-cells in the dermis and epidermis and Pautrier microabscesses. While a skin biopsy in a patient with pityriasis versicolor would show spores and short hyphae within the stratum corneum on histopathology, a less invasive test is preferred to confirm the diagnosis.

**G - Antinuclear antibody testing** - A positive antinuclear antibody test can be seen in autoimmune conditions such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Patients with SLE typically present with a photosensitive malar rash and erythematous eruptions; hypopigmented lesions are far less common. Additionally, this man lacks systemic involvement of the lungs, kidney, musculoskeletal system, or blood disorders, which would raise suspicion for SLE.

