### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Topical selenium sulfide** - Selenium sulfide is an antifungal agent used to treat tinea versicolor infections. It is available as a shampoo or lotion. Shampoo is used for scalp lesions as well as seborrheic dermatitis, whereas lotion is typically used for skin lesions not occurring on the scalp. Selenium sulfide promotes epidermal turnover, especially of the stratum corneum, which is the layer infected by Malassezia furfur, the causative organism of tinea versicolor. If topical therapy fails or the disease is severe and widespread, oral antifungals such as fluconazole are used.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral fluconazole** - Fluconazole is used for infections with Candida, Cryptococcus, and dermatophytes, including tinea versicolor. However, fluconazole has many systemic side effects like hepatotoxicity, seizures, and gastrointestinal distress. Therefore, it is only used for severe and widespread forms of tinea versicolor or if topical therapy is not sufficiently effective.

**B - Topical corticosteroid** - Topical corticosteroids such as clobetasol or mometasone are used in autoimmune diseases like guttate psoriasis or vitiligo, which also cause hypopigmentation. Vitiligo commonly presents with hypopigmented lesions on the extremities that do not have a scaly appearance, as seen in this patient. While guttate psoriasis can present with hypopigmentation, pinkish papules with a fine scale are more common and they tend to occur over a period of 2–3 months rather than 5 days, as seen in the patient here. Corticosteroids are therefore not only not indicated, they would actually worsen the fungal infection with their immunosuppressive effect.

**C - Oral ketoconazole** - Ketoconazole is effective against Candida, Histoplasma, and dermatophytes, including tinea versicolor. However, oral ketoconazole is known to be hepatotoxic, as well as to cause adrenal injury, and has multiple drug interactions. Therefore, the use of oral ketoconazole is restricted to serious disseminated fungal infections only. Topical ketoconazole may, however, be used to treat tinea versicolor.

**E - Topical nystatin** - Nystatin is used to treat local infections with Candida, which would show pseudohyphae and budding yeast cells on a KOH preparation. Candidal infections of the skin cause a red, itchy rash and not the hypopigmented lesions observed in this patient. It is not effective against Malassezia furfur, the causative organism of tinea versicolor.

