### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Tinea pedis** - Tinea pedis compromises the integrity of the skin, allowing other microorganisms such as Streptococcus pyogenes and Staphylococcus aureus to enter, which most likely led to the cellulitis in this patient. This patient should be further examined for pruritic, erythematous scaling and erosions between the toes and hyperkeratotic thickening of skin on soles of feet. If tinea pedis is diagnosed, it should be eradicated to prevent recurrent cellulitis. First-line treatment options for nonpurulent cellulitis with systemic signs of infection include penicillinase-resistant penicillins (nafcillin, oxacillin) or cefazolin.

Image File: 1538-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_584581529f48a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Rheumatoid arthritis** - Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) predisposes individuals to septic arthritis, which manifests with fever, erythema, tenderness, and swelling of the affected joint. However, this patient has erythema and swelling of the soft tissue of the lower leg rather than the joint. Rheumatoid arthritis is not commonly associated with soft tissue infections.

**B - Graves disease** - Graves disease can result in pretibial myxedema, which is caused by increased deposition of glycosaminoglycans (and thus fluid) in the dermis. Unlike in this patient, affected individuals present with nonpitting, painless edema, and firm red plaques on the anterior and lateral aspects of both legs. Graves disease is not associated with cellulitis.

Image File: 1538-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a04673841e4c.jpg

**C - Cigarette smoking** - Smoking is a risk factor for peripheral arterial disease (PAD), which is characterized by severely reduced blood flow to the extremities, resulting in pain. However, patients with PAD usually present with dry, atrophic, and cool skin, which this patient does not have. The presence of normal pedal pulses makes PAD unlikely. Furthermore, while complications of PAD such as gangrene and ulcers may increase the likelihood of bacterial infection and cellulitis, smoking itself does not predispose individuals to cellulitis.

Image File: 1538-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58a30f031b07d.jpg

**D - Immobility** - Immobility and the resulting venous stasis predispose individuals to deep vein thrombosis, which also presents with erythema and swelling of one leg. However, both inguinal lymphadenopathy and fever indicate an infectious etiology. Moreover, manipulating the calf muscle often elicits pain if DVT is present in the lower leg, which is not the case in this patient. Immobility alone does not increase the likelihood of cellulitis.

Image File: 1538-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_609bc59d03f4f.jpg

