### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Sharp surgical debridement of the ulcer** - This patient presents with a diabetic ulcer with slough (dead, whitish, stringy tissue at the ulcer base) and a calloused margin, both of which inhibit healing. The dead tissue is also a good medium for bacterial proliferation and predisposes to bacterial infection of the ulcer. Sharp surgical debridement of the slough and the calloused margins of this patient's ulcer using a scalpel blade or scissors will promote healing and decrease the risk of bacterial infection.

Screening for peripheral neuropathy is a key component of the management of diabetic patients. Pressure sensation (or protective sensation of the foot) can be tested using the monofilament test, vibration sense is tested using the tuning-fork test, and pain sensation is tested using the pinprick test. Daily self-examination of the feet for evidence of injury or infection is also recommended for diabetic patients.

Image File: 1543-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d907151d5.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Total contact casting of right foot** - Total contact casting is indicated in the management of neuropathic foot ulcers, as it off-loads the pressure from the wound and facilitates healing. This patient has a neuropathic ulcer, as evidenced by the clinical findings of decreased vibration and light touch sensation in the feet. However, while total contact casting would promote wound healing, this patient requires primary wound care before this treatment can be considered.

**B - Amputation of the right forefoot** - Amputation is reserved for infected diabetic ulcers with life-threatening sepsis (e.g., wet gangrene) or complicated diabetic ulcers that are unlikely to heal despite conservative therapy (e.g., extensive necrosis of the muscles, chronic osteomyelitis that is refractory to treatment, insufficient circulation due to coexistent PAD). This patient has no evidence of sepsis or local infection and has palpable peripheral pulses, which indicates good arterial supply. Thus, conservative therapy would be an appropriate treatment option at this time.

**C - Increase frequency of dressing change** - The frequency of dressing change of a diabetic ulcer depends on the characteristics of the ulcer. A twice- or thrice-daily dressing would benefit an ulcer that is infected or that has a profuse exudate and soaks the dressing. This permits frequent inspection of the wound, removal of dead or infected tissue, prevention of maceration of the surrounding skin, and promotes healing. An ulcer with healthy granulation tissue should be dressed less frequently (once every 2–3 days) to avoid disrupting the healing process. As this patient's ulcer has no evidence of infection, profuse discharge, or granulation tissue, a once-daily dressing, which is already being done, is sufficient. Another intervention to expedite healing is more urgently indicated.

**D - Intravenous antibiotic therapy** - Intravenous antibiotic therapy would be indicated if there was evidence of secondary infection of the ulcer (e.g., fever, local cellulitis, purulent discharge) or osteomyelitis of the bone underlying the ulcer (e.g., purulent discharge, positive probe-to-bone test, abnormalities on the foot x-ray). As this patient currently has no evidence of any of these conditions, intravenous antibiotic therapy is not required.

**F - Surgical revascularization of the right foot** - Surgical revascularization is indicated for the management of arterial ulcers that develop in patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD). Arterial ulcers are typically painful, shallow ulcers with a punched-out edge, and pale granulation tissue on the ulcer floor. These ulcers commonly develop over the toes, malleoli, or the dorsum of the foot, unlike this patient's painless plantar ulcer. In addition, there is no evidence of PAD in this patient, such as claudication pain or absent peripheral pulses. Thus, surgical revascularization is not an appropriate therapy in this patient.

