### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis** - Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis is a rare and currently untreatable complication of measles infection that usually develops many years after the initial infection. Although the exact etiology of SSPE is not fully understood, it is thought to result from persistent replication of a defective variant of the measles virus within neurons and glial cells. Particles of this defective virus accumulate intracellularly and are detectable as inclusion bodies on brain tissue analysis. These particles cause inflammation of the parenchyma and ultimately lead to neuronal degeneration, gliosis, and demyelination. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis shows high levels of anti-measles antibodies.

Image File: 1544-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb90ff11db7d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Vasculitic coronary artery aneurysm** - Coronary artery aneurysm is a potential complication of Kawasaki disease (KD), which can also cause high fever and conjunctivitis. However, other cardinal features of KD include a polymorphous rash, mucositis (e.g., “strawberry tongue”, cracked lips), cervical lymphadenopathy, as well as erythema and edema of the distal extremities, all of which are absent in this patient. Also, KD primarily occurs in children < 5 years of age who are of Asian and Pacific-Islander descent. It is an unlikely diagnosis in this 10-year-old girl from Sudan.

Image File: 1544-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60aba00e7d68b.jpg

**B - Immune thrombocytopenic purpura** - Immune thrombocytopenic purpura presents with a decreased platelet count and several nonblanching, red/purple spots on the skin. ITP may also occur as a complication of rubella. Although patients with rubella can also present with fever, conjunctivitis, and an enanthem of the soft palate (Forchheimer sign), they typically have postauricular and suboccipital lymphadenopathy. Furthermore, the Koplik spots described here are characteristic of measles.

Image File: 1544-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb5080de337f.jpg

**D - Non-Hodgkin lymphoma** - Epstein-Barr virus, a known etiology of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (particularly in immunocompromised patients), causes infectious mononucleosis (IM). IM is characterized by splenomegaly, fever, fatigue, pharyngitis and/or tonsillitis, and bilateral cervical lymphadenopathy. Although this patient presents with fever, she does not have any of the other typical symptoms of IM. Also, measles infection is not associated with non-Hodgkin lymphoma.

Image File: 1544-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d90f7f3fc.jpg

**E - Transient arrest of erythropoiesis** - A transient arrest of erythropoiesis and resulting drop in hemoglobin are characteristic of aplastic crisis, which may occur as a complication of erythema infectiosum. Erythema infectiosum is characterized by mild flu-like symptoms and diffuse redness of the face with perioral sparing (“slapped‑cheek rash”). However, this patient does not have a rash and her symptoms are consistent with a measles infection, which is not associated with aplastic anemia.

Image File: 1544-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ebbc451dc09a.jpg

**F - Glomerular immune complex deposition** - Glomerular immune complex deposition occurs in glomerulonephritis, which can develop after a streptococcal infection of the throat (e.g., bacterial pharyngitis, scarlet fever) and the skin (e.g., erysipelas). Scarlet fever also presents with fever; however, other expected features, such as tonsillopharyngitis, a white-coated or strawberry-red tongue, and gastrointestinal symptoms, followed by a rash, are absent in this patient. She presents with symptoms suggestive of measles, which is not associated with glomerulonephritis.

Image File: 1544-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb56ed724fa6.jpg

