### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Ovarian cancer** - For patients with continued severe acne vulgaris despite first-line therapies (e.g., oral antibiotics and topical combination therapy), COCP can be added. COCPs can decrease the risk of ovarian cancer, possibly through reduced cell proliferation within the ovaries and fallopian tubes. They also reduce the risk of endometrial cancer; the progestin contained therein opposes estrogen-driven endometrial hyperplasia, which reduces the risk for the development of type 1 endometrial cancer.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hypertension** - Combined oral contraceptives increase the risk for hypertension, although this risk minimizes shortly after drug cessation. The mechanism of oral contraception-induced hypertension is not clear but may be related to elevated angiotensinogen levels.

**C - Malignant melanoma** - Combined oral contraceptives do not have a known effect on skin cancer risks.

**D - Cervical cancer** - Long-term combined oral contraceptive use (≥ 5 years) is associated with an increased risk of cervical cancer. This association is likely based upon how OCPs affect the response of cervical cells to an HPV infection, the main cause of cervical cancer, by increasing susceptibility to infection and/or decreasing the ability to clear it.

**E - Deep vein thrombosis** - Combined oral contraceptives are associated with an increased risk for deep vein thrombosis because estrogen induces transcription of clotting factors (II, VII, VIII, X, XII) and fibrinogen to promote clot formation.

**F - Hepatic adenoma** - Combined oral contraceptives increase the risk for a hepatic adenoma. Although the mechanism is not fully clear, it may be related to estrogen-induced vascular dilation.

**G - Breast cancer** - Combined oral contraceptives do not reduce the risk for breast cancer. However, there is controversy as to whether current OCPs actually increase the risk for breast cancer, and therefore should be used with caution in a patient with a high risk for breast cancer development (e.g., BRCA mutations).

