### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Skin tags** - Skin tags (acrochordons) are benign outgrowths of normal skin that appear as pedunculated appendices with narrow stalks. The prevalence is 50–60% of individuals aged over 50 years and increases with age. The etiology of skin tags is not fully understood, but they tend to originate on areas of the body that experience friction, such as the lower neck, axilla, inframammary fold, and inguinal region. Skin tags are also associated with diabetes and obesity and may be a sign of insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome. Because skin tags are benign lesions, intervention is typically not necessary, but they may be removed for cosmetic purposes using fine-grade scissors, cryosurgery, or electrodesiccation.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Dermatofibromas** - Dermatofibromas are benign asymptomatic skin lesions that manifest as slow-growing nodules on the skin. In contrast to this patient's lesions, dermatofibromas tend to appear on the lower extremities, are not pedunculated, and do not have a stalk. In addition, dermatofibromas are more common in women, occur at any age, and manifest with a characteristic dimple sign.

Image File: 1546-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58a6ce12a3b39.jpg

**B - Seborrheic keratosis** - Seborrheic keratosis is a benign outgrowth of keratinocytes and is the most common benign skin tumor in the elderly population. Lesions can appear on the neck (as with this patient) as well as the trunk, dorsum of the hands, forearms, head, and/or face. However, seborrheic keratosis characteristically manifests as greasy, wax-like papules/plaques that have a “stuck-on” appearance and may become pruritic or bleed easily; they are not pedunculated lesions with a narrow stalk.

Image File: 1546-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a93047c2eee7.jpg

**D - Warts** - Warts are benign skin lesions resulting from hyperkeratosis and hyperplasia of the epidermis that is typically due to human papillomavirus (HPV). In contrast to this patient's lesions, warts manifest as skin-colored, scaly papules/plaques that have a cauliflower-like appearance; they are not pedunculated and do not have a stalk. Common warts occur on the elbows, knees, fingers, and palm while flat warts occur on the face, dorsal hands, and legs, plantar warts on the soles of feet, and anogenital warts on the anus and/or genitals.

Image File: 1546-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9176e6af.jpg

**E - Acanthosis nigricans** - Benign acanthosis nigricans manifests as velvety, hyperpigmented plaques on the skin. Acanthosis nigricans occurs in intertriginous zones (e.g., neck, axial, and/or inframammary fold) and is associated with obesity and diabetes. However, these lesions are associated with symmetrical thickening of the skin and, in some cases, pruritus. Furthermore, they are not pedunculated and do not have a stalk.

Image File: 1546-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a9913c042c55.jpg

