### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Phthirus pubis** - Infestation with the parasite Phthirus pubis causes pediculosis pubis, an infection that manifests with anogenital pruritus. Pediculosis pubis is a sexually transmitted infection that is not prevented by condoms. Physical examination of the pubic area typically shows excoriations as well as lice, their nits, and their droppings, which are visible both with the naked eye and on microscopy, as seen in the photomicrograph here.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Pediculus humanus** - Infestation with Pediculus humanus causes pediculosis capitis or pediculosis corporis, which also manifest with pruritus and excoriations. However, this patient's signs and symptoms are limited to the genital area, making a head or body lice infestation unlikely. Additionally, nits of Pediculus humanus corporis attach to clothes and nits of Pediculus humanus capitis attach to scalp hair shafts, whereas the photomicrograph here shows a nit attached to a pubic hair.

**C - Enterobius vermicularis** - The roundworm Enterobius vermicularis causes enterobiasis, which may also manifest with anogenital pruritus that is most severe at night. Eggs are transmitted through the fecal-oral route, typically via contaminated hands or during sexual intercourse, which is why close contacts of infected patients are often also affected. However, this patient's photomicrograph shows a nit attached to a shaft of a pubic hair, which is not typical for E. vermicularis. Enterobiasis is instead diagnosed through direct visualization of mobile worms in the perianal region or with a positive tape test, in which eggs of the worm are visible.

Image File: 1548-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_585a96b302d20.jpg

**D - Epidermophyton floccosum** - Dermatophytes like Epidermophyton floccosum cause diseases such as tinea pedis, tinea cruris, tinea corporis, and onychomycosis. While tinea cruris can manifest with pruritus and excoriations in the genital area, typical skin findings include an area of centrifugally growing, circular erythema, which is not described in this patient. Additionally, dermatophyte infections will show hyphae on microscopy, while the photomicrograph here shows an organism attached to a pubic hair.

Image File: 1548-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58467d610f8ae.jpg

**E - Sarcoptes scabiei** - Infestation with Sarcoptes scabiei causes scabies, a highly contagious infection transmitted through skin-to-skin contact (e.g., sexual intercourse). Although typical findings include pruritus and excoriations, scabies most commonly manifests with papules, vesicles, and burrow tracks on the wrists and intertriginous regions rather than the genital area. Furthermore, unlike the organism seen in the photomicrograph here, Sarcoptes scabiei mites do not attach to pubic hair.

Image File: 1548-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91135fde.jpg

