### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Cherry angioma** - Cherry angiomas are benign, vascular proliferations that commonly develop in adult patients. The diagnosis is typically made based on the clinical appearance of multiple, bright red, dome-shaped papules on the trunk and upper extremities that bleed with trauma and usually blanch with pressure. These lesions manifest more frequently with age and do not regress. Histologically, they are characterized by dilated interconnecting capillaries within the papillary dermis.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bacillary angiomatosis** - Bartonella henselae infections cause bacillary angiomatosis, which manifests with vascular proliferations that bleed with trauma, like the lesions seen in this patient. Although the lesions of bacillary angiomatosis can manifest with a papular appearance, they also commonly manifest as nodular, pedunculated, or verrucous lesions. In addition, this condition usually develops in patients infected with HIV, of which there is no indication here.

Image File: 1549-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_604cb3fc5ca5d.jpg

**C - Strawberry angioma** - Strawberry angiomas are benign, vascular proliferations that may bleed with trauma, like the lesions seen in this patient. However, strawberry angiomas usually develop in the first weeks of life on the head or neck and then involute by 5–8 years of age, unlike the lesions seen in this adult patient.

Image File: 1549-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5880bd205bfa1.jpg

**D - Amelanotic melanoma** - Amelanotic melanoma is a rare variant of melanoma that manifests as a skin-colored or red papule or nodule. Like this patient's papules, amelanotic melanoma may also bleed with trauma. However, this condition typically manifests as a solitary lesion, unlike the multiple lesions seen here.

Image File: 1549-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ab0554a077f.jpg

**E - Spider angioma** - Spider angiomas are benign, vascular lesions, like the ones seen in this patient. However, they are usually flat and have a characteristic appearance of a central arteriole from which multiple, small vessels radiate outwards, resembling the shape of a spider. Furthermore, they typically develop in patients with hyperestrogenic conditions (e.g., chronic liver failure, pregnancy), of which there is no indication here.

Image File: 1549-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_585be8baa3569.jpg

**F - Seborrheic keratosis** - Seborrheic keratoses are common, benign skin proliferations with a characteristic greasy, stuck-on appearance. Like this patient's papules, seborrheic keratoses typically develop as multiple lesions on the trunk of adult patients. However, they also commonly develop on the head and extremities. Additionally, these lesions are more commonly brown, tan, or skin-colored and do not bleed with trauma as readily as the lesions seen in this patient.

Image File: 1549-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94d87db5.jpg

**G - Pyogenic granuloma** - Pyogenic granulomas are benign, vascular proliferations that bleed with trauma, like the lesions seen in this patient. However, this condition typically manifests as a solitary papule at sites of trauma (particularly on the face, hands, or mucous membranes), unlike the multiple lesions seen here. Moreover, pyogenic granulomas are more prevalent among children, young adults, and pregnant women.

Image File: 1549-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a82a382a82e2.jpg

