### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Ulceration of the skin** - In chronic venous insufficiency, defective venous valve leaflets lead to reflux of venous blood back into the periphery, resulting in increased venous pressure (hydrostatic pressure) and subsequent extravasation of venous blood into the interstitium. Plasma proteins in the interstitium, in turn, cause edema and tissue hypoperfusion, which results in stasis dermatitis, lipodermatosclerosis, and, in some cases, ulcer formation. Venous ulcers tend to occur over the shin and medial malleolus and are shallow, tender, and surrounded by hyperpigmented skin.

Image File: 1552-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d917a6583.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Thrombosis of a deep vein** - Thrombosis of a deep vein is associated with increased age, a history of smoking, inherited thrombophilias, OCP use, and malignancy. While superficial thrombophlebitis and thrombosis are common in chronic venous insufficiency, deep vein thrombosis is rare.

**B - Sepsis with gram-positive bacteria** - Sepsis with gram-positive bacteria (e.g., Staphylococcus aureus, Group A streptococcus) can occur following skin or soft tissue infections (e.g., cellulitis, necrotizing fasciitis), which would manifest with pain and swelling in the affected region. However, the symptoms of skin or subcutaneous tissue infection would occur acutely, unlike this patient who had symptoms for the past 6 months, and erythema would be evident on inspection. Although chronic venous insufficiency (CVI) is itself a risk factor for developing cellulitis, a different complication of CVI is much more likely than sepsis.

**C - Malignant transformation of lymphatic endothelium** - Malignant transformation of lymphatic endothelium causes lymphangiosarcoma, a rare malignancy that is due to chronic lymphedema rather than chronic venous insufficiency (CVI). While squamous cell cancer can be seen in some cases of CVI at the site of the chronic ulcer, lymphangiosarcoma would not be seen.

**D - Biliverdin accumulation in the epidermis** - Accumulation of biliverdin in the epidermis is responsible for the hyperpigmentation seen following subcutaneous hematoma formation. However, in chronic venous insufficiency, hyperpigmentation is due to the dermal deposition of hemosiderin, which occurs over time as extravasated RBCs are broken down.

**E - Osmotic injury to the peripheral nerves** - Patients with untreated diabetes mellitus (DM) are at increased risk of osmotic injury to the peripheral nerves (diabetic neuropathy). Patients with untreated DM often develop pathologies in the lower extremities (e.g., skin and soft tissue infections, ischemic or neuropathic ulcers) but the dilated veins seen in the photograph suggest chronic venous insufficiency, which does not result in peripheral nerve injury.

Image File: 1552-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5677e78f23733.jpg

