### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Cutaneous larva migrans** - Cutaneous larva migrans is a common travel-associated dermatologic infection that is usually contracted by walking barefoot through contaminated soil (containing feces from infected dogs and cats). The serpentine rash is an inflammatory reaction that follows the migratory path of the hookworm larva penetrating the skin, which causes an initial small red papule, and burrowing through the epidermis. The larva moves primarily through secreted hyaluronidase and protease activity, but the lack of collagenase prevents penetration through the basement membrane. Humans are an accidental intermediate host, and the infection is usually self-limiting and resolves on its own within 2 months. However, it can be treated with oral ivermectin or albendazole to relieve symptoms and prevent secondary bacterial infection.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Contact dermatitis** - Contact dermatitis manifests as a rash on areas of the skin that have come into direct contact with an allergen (e.g., poison ivy). The rash manifests as intensely pruritic, erythematous vesicles and blisters that usually develop within 12–48 hours. Contact dermatitis is not migratory and therefore inconsistent with this patient's presentation.

**C - Tinea** - Tinea corporis manifests as erythematous, scaly plaques that spread centrifugally and develop central clearing. Inflammation causes scales, crust, papules, and vesicles. This patient's migratory serpentine rash is atypical for a tinea corporis infection.

**D - Superficial thrombophlebitis** - Superficial thrombophlebitis manifests as a palpable cord and can have accompanying erythema, swelling, and pain. Since the lesions are typically neither itchy nor migratory, this diagnosis is unlikely.

**E - Swimmer's itch** - Swimmer's itch is an immune reaction to a water-borne cutaneous infection with Schistosoma. Affected patients develop itchy papules and blisters within hours of infection, which resolve within a week without intervention. This patient has a migratory rash that has lasted at least 3 weeks, making swimmer's itch an unlikely diagnosis.

