### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Topical permethrin** - Topical permethrin is a pyrethroid and is used as a first-line treatment for scabies and lice. The patient has a classic presentation of scabies: a maculopapular rash with linear patterns that typically affects the interdigital spaces and is intensely pruritic, especially at night. This rash develops from superficial burrowing of Sarcoptes scabiei. Alternatives to permethrin include topical crotamiton, sulfur ointment, lindane, and oral ivermectin (although the last two drugs cannot be used in children younger than 6).

Image File: 1556-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_559560d35530f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral acyclovir** - Acyclovir is an antiviral medication commonly used for herpes simplex and herpes zoster infections, e.g., chickenpox. The characteristic chickenpox rash has various stages at once (including vesicles), begins on the face and trunk, and spares the palms and soles, none of which are present in this patient.

Image File: 1556-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f22ec1f44e76.jpg

**B - Supportive care** - Supportive therapy alone (e.g., an antipruritic agent) is most commonly employed for self-limiting illnesses like viral exanthem. This child is infected with mites and, while supportive therapy may be used as an adjunct treatment, it will not address the source of infection.

**C - Oral diphenhydramine** - Diphenhydramine is used for itching, allergies, and nausea. While diphenhydramine may alleviate the child's symptoms, it will not treat the underlying etiology of the infection. Therefore, it is only an adjunct and not the most effective intervention in this child. Additionally, diphenhydramine should be avoided in children under 6 years of age.

**E - Topical clotrimazole** - Clotrimazole is indicated for tinea, which typically present as an itchy ring-like rash with a red, raised scaly border and a central clearing. However, tinea does not occur simultaneously on all the webbed spaces of the digits and the itching has no relationship to the time of the day.

