### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Superficial partial-thickness burn** - Pain, erythema (blanching), and blisters that may rupture (to reveal the moist and weeping skin beneath) are consistent with a superficial partial-thickness burn (i.e., a superficial second-degree burn). This type of burn affects the entire thickness of the epidermis and the upper layers of the dermis but spares deep dermal appendages, such as hair follicles, sweat glands, and sebaceous glands. Nociceptive nerve endings are intact and the affected areas are extremely tender. Superficial partial-thickness burn heal within 1–3 weeks and lead to hypo/hyperpigmentation but not scarring.

Image File: 1557-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5899c5b73b3b0.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Superficial burn** - Erythema, pain, and skin that blanches when pressure is applied may be seen in superficial burns (i.e., first-degree burns). This type of burn, however, does not typically cause blisters and the skin is typically dry and does not weep. First-degree burns only involve the epidermis and heal within 3–6 days without scarring.

Image File: 1557-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5899beb11a723.jpg

**C - Deep partial-thickness burn** - Erythema and blisters may be seen in deep partial-thickness burns (i.e., deep second-degree burns). This type of burn is minimally painful, however, which is inconsistent with this patient's presentation. Deep second-degree burns are dry and do not blanch when pressure is applied. They extend from the epidermis to the deeper dermis, and they also damage surrounding deep dermal appendages and nociceptive nerve endings, which is why affected areas only perceive pressure but no pain. Healing takes 3 weeks or longer and results in scar formation.

Image File: 1557-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5899d05249f7c.jpg

**D - Full-thickness burn** - Full-thickness burns (i.e., third-degree burns) typically do not blister or blanch and are painless, nonerythematous, dry, and associated with tissue necrosis with black, white, or gray leathery skin/eschar, none of which are consistent with this patient's presentation. This type of burn extends through the entire dermis and part of the subcutaneous tissue, sparing deeper structures (i.e., muscles, fat, fascia, bones). Third-degree burns do not heal by themselves and have to be managed with early debridement of necrotic tissue, soft skin reconstruction (i.e., grafts, flaps), and antibiotics.

Image File: 1557-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5899d328e4e91.jpg

**E - Deeper injury burns** - Deeper injury burns (i.e., fourth-degree burns) typically do not blister or blanch and are painless, nonerythematous, and appear white, dry, or charred, all of which are inconsistent with this patient's presentation. This type of burn extends beyond the entire subcutaneous layer of the skin and involves deeper structures such as muscles, fat, fascia, and bone. Management involves amputation or extensive removal of dead tissue.

Image File: 1557-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5899d4aea301e.jpg

