### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Multiple colors of the lesion** - Melanocytic skin lesions that meet at least one ABCDE criterion should raise suspicion for malignant transformation and merit consideration of full-thickness excisional biopsy with histological examination. The mixture of colors in this patient's skin lesion meets criterion C (color variegation, e.g., different shades of brown, black, red, white, and/or blue). Tumor thickness, as determined from the Breslow thickness (measured in mm), is the most important prognostic factor in melanoma.

Image File: 1558-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_54806bfcaab67.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - 5 mm diameter of the lesion** - According to criterion D (diameter) of the ABCDE criteria of melanoma, skin lesions measuring more than 6 mm should prompt further diagnostic steps. The diameter of this patient's lesion is 5 mm and, therefore, not an indication for performing an excisional biopsy.

**C - No change in the lesion over the past 3 months** - According to criterion E (evolution) of the ABCDE criteria of melanoma, skin lesions that change in size, shape, or color should prompt further diagnostic steps. A skin lesion that has not changed noticeably over time, as seen here, is not an indication for performing an excisional biopsy.

**D - Uniform borders of the lesion** - According to criterion B (borders) of the ABCDE criteria of melanoma, skin lesions that have irregular borders should prompt further diagnostic steps. Uniform borders, as seen here, are not an indication for performing an excisional biopsy.

**E - Symmetrical appearance of the lesion** - According to criterion A (asymmetry) of the ABCDE criteria of melanoma, skin lesions that are asymmetrical should raise suspicion for malignancy. This patient's skin lesion is symmetrical and, therefore, not an indication for performing an excisional biopsy.

**F - Elevation of the lesion** - Malignancies such as nodular melanoma, squamous cell carcinoma, and basal cell carcinoma typically manifest as papules or nodules (i.e., elevated efflorescence). If a melanocytic skin lesion develops from a macule to a papule, it meets the E (evolution) criteria and should prompt further diagnostic steps. However, in general, neither an elevated (as seen in this patient) nor nonelevated skin lesion is an indicator of malignancy. Furthermore, this patient's skin lesion has not changed noticeably over time.

