### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Acral lentiginous** - Acral lentiginous melanoma (ALM) is uncommon in individuals of European descent but is the most common type of melanoma in African American and Asian individuals. Unlike other types of melanomas, ALM is not associated with sun exposure. When arising from the nail bed, ALM usually manifests as a dark linear patch that widens with time (Hutchinson nail sign). On the palms, soles, and mucous membranes, ALM appears as an irregularly shaped, brown-black macule. Overall the most common type of melanoma is superficial spreading melanoma, followed by nodular melanoma, and lentigo maligna melanoma.

Image File: 1560-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9293c4df.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Desmoplastic** - Sun exposure, which likely occurred in the course of this woman's regular travel to the Caribbean, is a risk factor for desmoplastic melanoma (DM). However, DM is more common in men than women and in white individuals than Black individuals. Moreover, DM is a very rare type of melanoma, and, unlike other types of melanomas, a family history of melanoma is not a risk factor for DM. This Black woman with a family history of melanoma is at greater risk for a different type of melanoma.

**B - Nodular** - Sun exposure, which likely occurred in the course of this woman's regular travel to the Caribbean, and a family history of melanoma are risk factors for nodular melanoma (NM). However, NM is more common in men than women and in white individuals than Black individuals. This Black woman is at greater risk for a different type of melanoma.

Image File: 1560-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_54872688b9878.jpg

**D - Amelanotic** - Sun exposure, which likely occurred in the course of this woman's regular travel to the Caribbean, and a family history of melanoma are risk factors for amelanotic melanoma. However, an amelanotic melanoma is a rare type of melanoma and is more common in white individuals than Black individuals. This Black patient is at greater risk for a different type of melanoma.

Image File: 1560-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ab0554a077f.jpg

**E - Lentigo maligna** - Sun exposure, which likely occurred in the course of this woman's regular travel to the Caribbean, and a family history of melanoma are risk factors for lentigo maligna melanoma (LMM). However, LMM is more common in white individuals than Black individuals. This Black woman is at greater risk for a different type of melanoma.

Image File: 1560-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d927c6033.jpg

**F - Superficial spreading** - Sun exposure, which likely occurred in the course of this woman's regular travel to the Caribbean, and a family history of melanoma are risk factors for superficial spreading melanoma (SSM), which is the most common type of melanoma (accounting for 70% of all melanomas). However, SSM almost always affects white individuals; Black individuals are rarely affected.

Image File: 1560-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91bc708f.jpg

