### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Basal cell carcinoma** - This farmer presents with a slowly growing, nontender, pearly, indurated, and nodular skin lesion with a rolled border and a central depression (crater) with ulceration on his nose, which is consistent with basal cell carcinoma (BCC). Although BCC is the most common malignant skin tumor, it rarely metastasizes and generally has an excellent prognosis. However, untreated lesions may cause local destruction and infiltration and create significant wound care issues on excision.

Image File: 1561-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_508c11f5376f6.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Amelanotic melanoma** - Amelanotic melanoma typically presents as a nonpigmented or hypopigmented nodule or macule. About 5% of nodular melanomas appear amelanotic, and occasionally they may even be associated with ulceration and bleeding, making it difficult to distinguish them from this patient's condition. However, a pearly raised border suggests a much more common type of skin tumor.

Image File: 1561-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ab0554a077f.jpg

**B - Molluscum contagiosum** - Molluscum contagiosum presents as an individual or, more commonly, multiple pearly papules with a central depression. Although it is mostly seen in children, it may also affect adults, especially if they are immunocompromised. However, molluscum contagiosum presents as smaller, nonulcerated lesions (< 5 mm) without telangiectatic pearls or a rolled border.

Image File: 1561-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d92b7bbad.jpg

**C - Keratoacanthoma** - While keratoacanthomas may appear as an erythematous nodule with a central crater, which would be consistent with this patient's lesion, they do not have a pearly appearance or a rolled border. In contrast to this patient's lesion, keratoacanthomas usually heal without treatment and typically grow rapidly over 2–3 months.

Image File: 1561-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_550982ec6e5c4.jpg

**D - Trichoepithelioma** - As with this patient's lesion, trichoepithelioma is frequently located on the face, especially on the nose or cheeks. However, it is an uncommon type of skin tumor that is mostly seen in younger patients during puberty or adolescence. It has a firm, skin-colored, papular appearance. A central depression with ulcerations is not a feature of trichoepithelioma.

Image File: 1561-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589dc58bbc603.jpg

**F - Squamous cell carcinoma** - Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is the second most common type of skin cancer. It is commonly located on the face or neck (the lower lip is a typical location). Although this patient also has a lesion involving his face, SCC has a different appearance: it is typically a hyperkeratotic nodule or ulcer with crusting that does not heal and bleeds easily. A pearly induration with a rolled border suggests another diagnosis.

Image File: 1561-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9283fd62.jpg

**G - Actinic keratosis** - While actinic keratosis typically affects patients over the age of 50 and is also associated with sun exposure, it does not manifest as pearly nodules surrounding a central, ulcerative depression. Instead, actinic keratosis presents with dry and scaly patches of skin.

Image File: 1561-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5769bf9d0b0df.jpg

