### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Hair tourniquet syndrome** - This previously healthy child presents with hair tourniquet syndrome, which usually affects infants when a hair or thread inside a sock or under bed sheets becomes spontaneously tied around a toe and tightens as the child moves. If the fiber is not removed, the worsening edema will cause arterial obstruction and ischemia of the distal toe.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Raynaud phenomenon** - Raynaud phenomenon could present with a sudden onset of pain in the toes. However, the condition is very rare in infants, and it involves a bilateral, symmetrical pattern as opposed to this patient's single-digit involvement. Additionally, this patient has no history of a triggering factor or causative condition, which would be expected.

**B - Ingrown toe nail** - An ingrown toe nail is common in adults but rare in infants. It causes swelling, redness, and tenderness of the soft tissue surrounding the toenail edges, but it is not associated with a constricting, circumferential groove.

**C - Sickle cell dactylitis** - Dactylitis is often a common initial presentation of sickle cell disease in infants. Although dactylitis is characterized by painful and swollen appendage, it occurs bilaterally and involves the whole hand/foot rather than just one digit. This patient also has no signs of sickle cell anemia such as pallor.

**D - Insect bite** - An insect bite could potentially cause localized erythema and edema, but the margins of the inflamed area would be more diffuse and not cause a circumferential groove.

**E - Acute paronychia** - Acute paronychia can result in a painful, single digit with redness and swelling, but the inflammation would be localized to tissue around the nail, and it is typically associated with purulent fluid (not a constricting, circumferential groove).

**G - Cellulitis** - Cellulitis could cause a painful, inflamed swelling and redness of a digit, but the borders would be poorly defined and there would not be a constricting groove.

**H - Herpetic whitlow** - Herpetic whitlow can cause painful inflammation of a single digit (typically the thumb in infants), but it rarely affects the toes and would show vesicles and lymphadenopathy (not a constricting, circumferential groove).

**I - Amniotic band syndrome** - Amniotic band syndrome can also present with constriction around a digit, but it is present at birth and the affected digit retains its normal size and function rather than causing swelling, redness, and pain.

**J - Child abuse** - Scalding 1st-degree burns may cause redness and swelling of a single digit, and a sharply demarcated burn line should always raise suspicion that someone intentionally held the affected area under a body of hot water. However, such a burn is not associated with a constricting groove. Additionally, this patient's history has no other signs indicative of child abuse such as injuries at different stages of healing (battered child syndrome), retinal hemorrhages (shaken baby syndrome), or an inconsistent history.

