### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Measles-specific IgM antibodies** - Detection of measles-specific immunoglobulin M (IgM) antibodies is the test of choice to confirm suspected measles. The antibodies usually appear at the onset of exanthem. This young boy from the Philippines has had a cough and coryza, which are typical in the prodromal phase of measles. Furthermore, he now presents with an erythematous maculopapular, blanching, and partially confluent exanthem on his entire body, generalized lymphadenopathy, and high-grade fever, all of which are highly suggestive of measles.

Image File: 1563-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb90ff11db7d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Rapid plasma reagin** - Rapid plasma reagin (RPR) is generally the test of choice for diagnosing syphilis, which is caused by the spirochete Treponema pallidum. A polymorphic rash typically occurs in association with secondary syphilis. The rash is usually nonpruritic and macular, involving the trunk and extremities (including the palms and soles). Although this patient's rash may resemble the rash seen in secondary syphilis, the vignette does not mention any risk factors (e.g., sexual abuse) of a syphilis infection. Furthermore, the additional symptoms of high fever, cough, and coryza suggest a different diagnosis.

**B - Tzanck smear** - Tzanck smear of vesicle fluid is the best initial test to diagnose chickenpox (varicella), which is caused by the varicella zoster virus. Chickenpox presents with constitutional symptoms (e.g., fever, malaise), followed by a widespread rash starting on the trunk, spreading to the face, scalp, and extremities. The rash consists of erythematous macules, papules, vesicles, and crusted papules and causes severe pruritus. However, this patient has a nonpruritic erythematous maculopapular rash.

Image File: 1563-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f22ec1f44e76.jpg

**D - Rapid antigen detection testing** - Rapid antigen detection testing (rapid strep test) may be performed to detect β‑hemolytic group A streptococcus, which is the causative organism of scarlet fever. This patient's presentation may resemble in many ways that of scarlet fever, but the exanthem seen in scarlet fever is typically pruritic and it has a sandpaper‑like texture. Furthermore, scarlet fever usually presents with concomitant tonsillopharyngitis. However, the patient's rash is maculopapular and he does not have any signs suggestive of tonsillopharyngitis.

Image File: 1563-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb56ed724fa6.jpg

**E - Rubella-specific IgM antibodies** - Detection of rubella-specific IgM antibodies in the serology is performed to confirm the diagnosis of suspected rubella. Rubella is a viral illness caused by the rubella virus. It is characterized by a prodromal phase with flulike illness, postauricular and suboccipital lymphadenopathy, and occasionally splenomegaly. The prodromal phase is typically followed by a nonconfluent, pink maculopapular rash and possibly polyarthritis. However, the patient has generalized lymphadenopathy and shows no signs of splenomegaly or polyarthritis. Furthermore, he presents with a partially confluent erythematous maculopapular rash.

Image File: 1563-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb5080de337f.jpg

**F - Monospot test** - A monospot test detects heterophile antibodies produced in response to Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection using RBCs from horses. EBV infection typically affects adolescents and may lead to infectious mononucleosis, which is characterized by splenomegaly, pharyngitis, bilateral cervical lymphadenopathy, and, in select cases, maculopapular rash. However, the patient's age, generalized lymphadenopathy, and lack of splenomegaly or pharyngitis make this diagnosis unlikely.

