### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Heterophile agglutination test** - Fever, exudative tonsillitis, lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, and leukocytosis are all indicative of infectious mononucleosis (IM), which is caused by an Epstein-Barr virus infection. A positive heterophile agglutination test (monospot test) confirms the diagnosis. Although IM itself does not usually cause a rash, a morbilliform rash commonly occurs in patients with this condition who are mistakenly administered an aminopenicillin with the intent of treating a bacterial infection (e.g., streptococcal pharyngitis, which also presents with fever, sore throat, and cervical lymphadenopathy).

Image File: 1566-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_610d186f9fe08.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Throat swab culture** - A throat swab culture is indicated for streptococcal pharyngitis. Although the symptoms of fever, sore throat, and cervical lymphadenopathy may suggest pharyngitis due to Streptococcus, the maculopapular rash, splenomegaly, and lack of improvement with antibiotics make this diagnosis unlikely.

**B - Anti-CMV IgM antibodies** - The presence of anti-CMV IgM would indicate an acute cytomegalovirus infection, which can also present with fever, fatigue, and a sore throat. Lymphadenopathy and splenomegaly are possible, but rare. This constellation of symptoms is more likely the result of another diagnosis, meaning a different step is indicated at this time. However, if that step shows negative results, measuring serum anti-CMV IgM levels would be indicated.

**C - ELISA for HIV** - The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) is a technique used for the screening of several diseases, including HIV. This patient has some signs of primary HIV infection (fever, sore throat, fatigue, lymphadenopathy, rash) and risk factors for HIV transmission (multiple sexual partners, inconsistent condom use), but splenomegaly, tonsillar exudates, and lack of diarrhea make another diagnosis more likely.

**E - Flow cytometry** - Flow cytometry is a technique employed for evaluation of patients with lymphocytosis, including those suspected of leukemia or lymphoma. Although blood cancers often present with lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, lymphocytosis, and low body weight (e.g., BMI of 19), the sudden onset of fever, sore throat, tender lymphadenopathy, and tonsillar exudates in this patient indicates an active infection. Additionally, a morbilliform rash (following amoxicillin intake) would not be expected.

