### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Increased confidence interval range** - Confidence intervals are defined as the mean ± standard error of the mean, which is calculated by multiplying a Z-score (for 95% confidence intervals this is always 2) by the standard deviation (SD) divided by the square root of the sample size (Mean +/- Z-score (SD/√sample size)). A larger sample size or a decreased SD (based on data precision) will decrease the standard error. Including more disparate data or reducing the sample size, as was done here, will increase it.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increased risk of selection bias** - Bias is a flaw in a study's methodology that may lead to inaccurate results. Selection bias is the establishment of a sample that is poorly representative of the population or disease being studied, and may therefore skew findings. As this is a methodologic or randomization flaw, the risk of selection bias does not change with the reduced sample size proposed here. It must be managed prior to recruitment.

**B - Decreased hazard ratio** - Hazard ratio is a measure of efficacy, such as the ability of a drug to treat (or be toxic to) a patient. As a change in the sample size in this study would have no impact on the relative efficacies of rivaroxaban and warfarin, its hazard ratio would not be expected to change.

**D - Decreased type I error rate** - Type I error rejects the null hypothesis (accepting a different study outcome), when it is in fact true. This value is used to state what threshold should be used to consider the difference between two values as statistically significant. The inverse of type I error is the p-value. This value is fixed regardless of study power, sample size, or standard deviation. Therefore, it would not change if the sample size of this study were reduced.

**E - Increased risk of confounding bias** - Confounding is the ability for an unconsidered variable to influence a relationship being studied. For example, a study attempting to associate weight with lung cancer incidence may not consider if more overweight patients smoke. This is a methodologic flaw and must be mitigated using subgroup analyses (i.e., looking at smokers who are overweight as their own group), or by performing the same study on multiple populations. A decrease in sample size, as done here, will not change the risk of confounding.

**F - Decreased type II error rate** - Type II error is accepting a null hypothesis (disproving alternative hypotheses) when it is actually false. It is measured as 1 - power. When the sample size is reduced, as was done in this case, the power of the study will be reduced. Type II error rate is therefore increased, not decreased.

