### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Keratoacanthoma** - Keratoacanthoma is a type of skin tumor that most commonly affects middle-aged and elderly individuals with an extensive history of sun exposure, like this patient. The tumor typically develops on the face, neck, arms, or hands and manifests as a round, erythematous nodule with a central hyperkeratotic crater, as seen in the image. Keratoacanthomas grow rapidly within weeks to months and usually resolve without treatment. An excisional biopsy is usually required to confirm the diagnosis. Although keratoacanthomas are generally benign, most tumors are removed surgically because of their close resemblance to squamous cell carcinoma.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Sporotrichosis** - Sporotrichosis results from infection with Sporothrix schenckii, which is commonly found on vegetation and garden soil and is typically transmitted via the prick of a thorn. While this patient's occupation as a landscaper puts him at risk of contracting this disease, sporotrichosis initially manifests as a papule at the site of inoculation (most commonly on extremities) followed by nodular ascending lymphangitis due to fungal spread along the lymphatic vessels. This patient's periauricular isolated nodule with a central hyperkeratotic crater is inconsistent with sporotrichosis.

Image File: 1572-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a930a0b4c1eb.jpg

**B - Nodular melanoma** - Nodular melanoma (NM) is a type of rapidly growing malignant melanoma that most commonly develops on sun-exposed areas of skin in elderly individuals, like this patient. However, NM usually manifests as a dark pigmented or red (amelanotic NM) nodule that tends to ulcerate and bleed; the photograph of this patient's lesion shows an erythematous nodule with a central hyperkeratotic crater that does not bleed or ulcerate, which is inconsistent with NM.

Image File: 1572-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55379511c0c15.jpg

**C - Pyogenic granuloma** - Pyogenic granuloma is a benign, vascular tumor that typically manifests as a bright red lobulated papule that tends to bleed profusely after minor trauma, which is not seen here. In addition, most pyogenic granulomas develop during the second and third decades of life.

Image File: 1572-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ccd75a090116.jpg

**D - Basal cell carcinoma** - Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most common type of malignant skin tumor. It typically manifests as a nonhealing ulcer with a central depression and rolled borders on sun-exposed skin areas. Although this patient's lesion has similar features and his long-term exposure to sunlight puts him at risk for developing BCC, most BCCs are slow-growing, whereas this skin lesion developed within weeks, making BCC unlikely.

Image File: 1572-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d922cb882.jpg

**F - Angiosarcoma** - Cutaneous angiosarcoma is a highly malignant vascular tumor that typically develops on areas of the skin exposed to radiation (e.g., radiation therapy, sunlight). This tumor manifests as multiple violaceous macules, papules, and/or subcutaneous nodules on the face and/or neck. This patient's solitary erythematous skin lesion with a central hyperkeratotic crater is inconsistent with angiosarcoma.

