### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Poxvirus** - The molluscum contagiosum virus is a DNA poxvirus that typically causes multiple nontender, skin-colored, pearly, dome-shaped papules with central umbilication, which can be located on the face, trunk, and extremities, as seen in this patient. Molluscum contagiosum most commonly affects children under 5 years of age. The virus is transmitted through direct skin contact, which explains why the patient's younger brother is also infected. Typically, the lesions are self-limiting within a few months.

Image File: 1573-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5272a95b8cfe7.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Human herpesvirus 8** - Human herpesvirus 8 causes Kaposi sarcoma, which manifests with nontender, nonpruritic skin lesions, which are seen here. However, the lesions are typically a mixture of dark red macules, papules, and plaques, rather than the skin-colored and dome-shaped papules seen in this patient, and the lesions most commonly appear on the face, oral cavity, and chest. Moreover, Kaposi sarcoma occurs almost exclusively in immunocompromised patients (e.g., AIDS) and is rare in children.

Image File: 1573-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_599d6975c708c.jpg

**B - Human papillomavirus** - The human papillomavirus types 1, 2, and 4 can cause nontender, nonpruritic, skin-colored papules in children, which are seen here. However, these lesions are common warts that typically have a cauliflower-like rather than a dome-shaped appearance, and they are usually located on the elbows, knees, fingers, or palms, rather than on the thighs. Moreover, common warts are unusual in children under 5 years of age.

Image File: 1573-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9176e6af.jpg

**C - Herpes simplex virus 1** - Herpes simplex virus 1 can cause eczema herpeticum, which also manifests with umbilicated skin lesions. However, the lesions are typically disseminated vesicles, rather than the localized papules seen here, and are painful. Moreover, eczema herpeticum is typically accompanied by fever, malaise, and lymphadenopathy. Finally, this condition primarily occurs in patients with pre-existing skin conditions (classically atopic dermatitis), which are not reported here.

Image File: 1573-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d919aca0d.jpg

**E - Varicella-zoster virus** - The varicella-zoster virus causes chickenpox, which manifests with papular skin lesions. However, the chickenpox rash is characterized by the simultaneous occurrence of various stages of rash, including crusted and erupted vesicles, which are not seen in this patient. Moreover, the skin lesions are typically highly pruritic and involve all body parts, including the mucous membranes. Finally, chickenpox is accompanied by constitutional symptoms (e.g., fever, malaise) and usually lasts for about a week, whereas this patient has already had skin lesions for several months.

Image File: 1573-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57c963388af76.jpg

