### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - No further management is indicated at this time** - Uncomplicated local reactions to a Hymenoptera sting, as seen here, only require symptomatic treatment to limit the inflammatory reaction and reduce the pain. The inflammatory reaction to a sting is induced by the venom released from the venom sac of Hymenoptera's stinging apparatus. Since the venom is expelled during the first few minutes after a sting, immediate stinger removal might limit venom release. Sting removal can be done by scraping off the stinger with a piece of gauze or fingernail but not with tweezers, because of the risk of further squeezing the venom sac. Following removal, the site should be washed with soap and water, cold compresses should be applied, and NSAIDs can be used for pain relief. If present, pruritus can be treated with oral antihistamines or topical steroids. In patients with large local reactions (> 10 cm in diameter), oral steroids can be used.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform allergic skin testing** - Allergic skin testing is usually needed to confirm the diagnosis of Hymenoptera venom allergy in patients with a history of a systemic allergic reaction following a Hymenoptera sting. In patients with local skin reactions, there is no indication for allergic skin testing because the probability of developing a systemic life-threatening reaction is low. Moreover, in patients with no history of a systemic allergic reaction, a positive skin test is neither diagnostic nor predicts the risk of developing a systemic reaction following a sting, since more than a quarter of the general population has venom-specific IgE antibodies but only a minority actually reports systemic reactions.

**B - Administer oral prednisone** - Oral prednisone is used in the treatment of large local reactions (LLR) to Hymenoptera stings, which manifest with an area of erythema and painful swelling greater than approx. 10 cm in diameter. While small local reactions can gradually increase and develop into an LLR within two days following a sting, this patient currently has a small local reaction; oral prednisone is not necessary at this time.

**D - Admit the patient for observation** - Observation in a hospital setting is indicated to monitor patients who were previously treated for sting-induced anaphylaxis or are at risk for developing an anaphylactic reaction. This patient, however, only has a localized skin reaction, which does not require observation in a hospital setting.

**E - Administer epinephrine** - Epinephrine is used in the treatment of anaphylaxis, which can be triggered by Hymenoptera stings. This patient, however, does not have typical findings of anaphylaxis, such as urticaria, angioedema, chest tightness, dyspnea, or hypotension. Epinephrine can also be administered following a sting in patients with a history of sting-induced anaphylaxis, which is not the case here.

