### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Hypertensive crisis during pheochromocytoma resection is rare** - The rare disease assumption is the most important prerequisite that allows for this surgeon's conclusion. This concept assumes that if the incidence of a study's outcome (in this case, hypertensive crisis during pheochromocytoma resection) is low (i.e., the disease is rare), the odds ratio approximates the relative risk. Usually, the RR cannot be established in case-control studies because subjects are not tracked over time. Instead, the OR is calculated to determine whether there is an association between an exposure and outcome (in this case, MEN 2 syndrome and intraoperative hypertension, respectively), although the OR does not provide a quantitative estimate of the risk. Because intraoperative hypertension during pheochromocytoma resection is rare, the rare disease assumption holds that OR is approximately equal to RR. It can thus be assumed that the risk of intraoperative hypertension during pheochromocytoma removal is 3.4 times greater in patients with MEN 2 syndromes than in patients without MEN 2 syndromes.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Prevalence of MEN type 2 syndromes is low** - If the prevalence of MEN 2 syndromes is low, the values representing the exposure in a standard contingency table, a and b, become very small. In this case, the odds ratio indicates an association between exposure and outcome without providing an estimate of the relative risk.

**C - The case-control study used a large sample size** - The size of the case-control study does not determine whether the relative risk can be estimated from the odds ratio or not. The odds ratio approximates the relative risk only in one specific circumstance.

**D - The relationship between MEN 2 syndromes and intraoperative hypertension during pheochromocytoma removal is not due to random error** - A p-value < 0.05 (here p < 0.01) indicates that the association between MEN 2 syndromes and intraoperative hypertension during pheochromocytoma removal is statistically significant rather than due to chance or random error. However, this does not allow us to assume that the relative risk is equal to the odds ratio here.

**E - Pheochromocytoma is common in MEN 2 syndromes** - While pheochromocytoma is common in individuals with MEN 2 syndromes, occurring in approx. 50% of patients, this has no bearing on the assumption that the odds ratio approximates the relative risk.

