### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Erythema infectiosum** - The patient's presentation of prodromal low-grade fever and cold‑like symptoms, followed by a facial maculopapular rash with perioral sparing (“slapped-cheek” appearance) that spreads to the trunk and extremities with a lace-like pattern, is consistent with erythema infectiosum, also known as fifth disease. Fifth disease is caused by a parvovirus B19 infection. It is most commonly seen in children aged 5–15 years and is self-limiting, usually resolving in 7–10 days.

Parvovirus B19 infection in pregnancy can cause severe anemia, fetal hydrops, and fetal demise.

Image File: 1583-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ebbc451dc09a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Rubella** - Rubella (German measles) is a viral exanthematous illness usually seen in unvaccinated children. As in this patient, it also causes cold-like symptoms and a maculopapular rash that starts on the face and spreads distally. The rash, however, is usually nonconfluent and involves the perioral region.

Image File: 1583-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb5080de337f.jpg

**B - Measles** - Measles (rubeola) is a paramyxovirus infection and presents with a prodromal stage followed by an exanthem stage that is characterized by an erythematous confluent maculopapular rash. As in this patient, the rash starts on the face and extends to the body and is self-limiting. However, the rash of measles does not spare the perioral area and is usually accompanied by a high fever.

Image File: 1583-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb90ff11db7d.jpg

**D - Hand, foot, and mouth disease** - Hand, foot, and mouth disease is a viral illness that is characterized by a pruritic maculopapular and vesicular rash primarily on the hands and feet. Although the rash can present with vesicles in the oropharynx, it does not involve the face as in this patient. Additionally, the cold-like symptoms usually accompany the rash rather than precede it.

Image File: 1583-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57c974b46f60e.jpg

**E - Exanthem subitum** - Roseola (exanthem subitum) is an exanthematous illness caused by the human herpesvirus 6. It typically presents in infants or toddlers with a high fever for 3 days that is immediately followed by a patchy maculopapular rash. Opposite of this patient's presentation, the rash seen in exanthem subitum starts on the trunk and can spread to the face and extremities.

Image File: 1583-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ebbf2e9d6fc7.jpg

**F - Scarlet fever** - Scarlet fever most commonly occurs in children with streptococcal tonsillopharyngitis and causes a fine, maculopapular rash with a sandpaper‑like texture. The face can be flushed with perioral pallor, which resembles the perioral-sparing rash described in this patient. However, the rash usually starts on the neck, axilla, and groin, and then spreads to the rest of the body.

Image File: 1583-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb56ed724fa6.jpg

