### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Alcohol consumption** - While the etiology of rosacea remains uncertain, there are several known triggers that precipitate or exacerbate symptoms, including stress, exercise, hot weather, and alcohol consumption. These triggers are believed to induce local inflammation, which causes vasodilation of cutaneous capillaries and skin flushing.

Image File: 1587-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91a499df.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cutibacterium colonization** - Cutibacterium acnes (formerly known as Propionibacterium acnes) is a gram-positive bacteria species that is part of the commensal skin flora. It is associated with the pathogenesis of acne vulgaris. The bacteria colonizes follicles and pores, digesting sebum and releasing pro-inflammatory byproducts that cause acne, which typically presents with papules and pustules, as seen here. However, this patient does not have comedones, a characteristic feature of acne vulgaris. Finally, acne vulgaris most commonly occurs during puberty due to an androgen-related increase in sebum production.

Image File: 1587-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5639fcbd73e01.jpg

**B - Lisinopril therapy** - Angioedema is a well-known side effect of lisinopril, especially in patients with C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency. ACE inhibitor-mediated angioedema usually manifests with acute-onset swelling and erythema of the entire face. The morphologic findings seen in this patient are not characteristic of angioedema, which is typically generalized across the face. This man's rash is limited to the cheeks, nasolabial folds, and nose.

Image File: 1587-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d90fc489c.jpg

**D - Filaggrin gene mutation** - Filaggrin gene mutations can be found in patients with atopic dermatitis. This condition is characterized by a dry, pruritic, erythematous skin rash that begins in childhood, improves during adolescence, and becomes a chronic condition in adulthood. The location of lesions changes from the cheeks, face, and head in infants to the flexural creases (antecubital and popliteal fossae) in adults. As patients age, atopic dermatitis lesions become excoriated and lichenified. This patient's flexural surfaces are not affected and his symptoms began in adulthood, making atopic dermatitis unlikely.

Image File: 1587-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d952217c3.jpg

**E - Complement component 1q deficiency** - Deficiency of complement component 1q (due to anti-C1q antibodies) correlates with disease activity in systemic lupus erythematosus. The dermatologic hallmark of SLE is a butterfly rash (malar rash) that spares the nasolabial folds. This man's rash involving the nasolabial folds, in addition to pustules, is not characteristic of SLE. Also, SLE has a strong predilection for young females and often manifests with other findings, such as fevers, fatigue, myalgias, arthritis, and lupus nephritis.

Image File: 1587-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d942149bd.jpg

