### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Cutaneous anthrax** - Cutaneous anthrax is caused by Bacillus anthracis, which is transmitted via contact with infected animals or their products (e.g., wool, hide, meat). It can also be found in soil exposed to infected animal products. This patient was likely exposed when he scratched his face following contact with contaminated soil, providing an entry point for the bacterium or its spores. B. anthracis is endemic in agricultural regions around the world, including central and southwest Asia. The incubation period is typically 5–7 days, after which individuals usually develop a painless, pruritic lesion that ulcerates and becomes a necrotic, black eschar. Local/regional lymphadenopathy, as seen here, is also common. In addition, some patients with cutaneous anthrax develop systemic symptoms, including fever, headache, and myalgias.

In patients with cutaneous anthrax without systemic symptoms, oral monotherapy with a fluoroquinolone (e.g., ciprofloxacin) or doxycycline is usually sufficient; the presence of systemic symptoms, as seen here, warrants intravenous antibiotic therapy with a fluoroquinolone plus linezolid or clindamycin, and antitoxin therapy (e.g., with raxibacumab or anthrax immunoglobulin).

Image File: 1588-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55c1f930bc1f8.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ulceroglandular tularemia** - Ulceroglandular tularemia typically manifests with fever, skin ulcer, and regional lymphadenopathy, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, individuals with ulceroglandular tularemia usually report recent insect bites (particularly ticks), which is not the case here, making this diagnosis less likely.

**B - Cutaneous nocardiosis** - Cutaneous nocardiosis manifests with nodules that ulcerate and can be accompanied by regional lymphadenopathy, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, the skin lesions in cutaneous nocardiosis are usually painful and this condition is most commonly seen in immunocompromised individuals (e.g., due to HIV infection, organ transplant, glucocorticoid therapy, diabetes mellitus). This patient's history is not consistent with cutaneous nocardiosis.

**D - Lymphocutaneous sporotrichosis** - Lymphocutaneous sporotrichosis most commonly manifests with painless pustules or ulcers, similar to this patient's lesion. However, patients with sporotrichosis typically develop multiple nodular lesions along lymphatic vessels in the proximity of the primary lesion, forming nodular lymphangitis, which is not seen here.

Image File: 1588-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a930a0b4c1eb.jpg

**E - Cutaneous leishmaniasis** - Cutaneous leishmaniasis manifests with a solitary red skin lesion with central ulceration and regional lymphadenopathy. However, systemic symptoms (e.g., myalgia, fever, headache) are usually not observed in cutaneous leishmaniasis, making this diagnosis less likely.

Image File: 1588-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5487139d5d851.jpg

