### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Actinic keratosis** - Actinic keratosis is a precancerous lesion that occurs on sun-exposed skin (e.g., the scalp, face, ears, dorsal aspects of the hands or arms) and predominantly affects light-skinned individuals over 50 years of age. The lesions typically grow back after they are scraped off. As a winemaker, this man likely spent a lot of time working outdoors and was frequently exposed to sun. Initially, actinic keratosis present as small, erythematous lesions with a central scale and a rough surface, giving them a sandpaper-like texture on palpation. Later, the lesions may grow and become erythematous and scaly, as seen in this patient. The risk of progression to invasive squamous cell carcinoma depends on the degree of epithelial dysplasia, but it is < 1% per year. Occasionally, hyperkeratosis may turn preexisting actinic keratosis lesions into cutaneous horns.

Image File: 1590-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5272a95b8fc13.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Seborrheic keratosis** - Seborrheic keratosis is the most common benign skin tumor in the elderly population. However, in contrast to this patient's rough, patchy lesions, it presents as darkly pigmented papules or plaques that are soft, sharply demarcated, and appear greasy, wax-like, and 'stuck-on.' Also, the lesions tend to involve the trunk, back of the hands, face and neck, and forearms, rather than the scalp.

Image File: 1590-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94d87db5.jpg

**B - Basal cell carcinoma** - Basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) are the most common skin tumors and occur on areas of skin exposed to sun. Given his former occupation, this patient is at increased risk of developing BCCs. However, in contrast to this patient's lesions, which manifest as erythematous, hyperkeratotic plaques, BCCs present as pearly, indurated, and nodular lesions with a rolled border and a central depression (crater) with ulceration.

Image File: 1590-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d922cb882.jpg

**C - Keratoacanthoma** - While keratoacanthomas tend to occur in elderly patients who have had chronic sun exposure, such as this patient, they present as a round erythematous nodule with a central crater that grows rapidly, usually within weeks to months. In this patient, the multiple erythematous lesions with scales found on the scalp are more suggestive of a different diagnosis.

Image File: 1590-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_550982ec6e5c4.jpg

**D - Tinea capitis** - Tinea capitis affects the scalp and presents as round, scaly plaques with broken hair shafts or alopecia in the affected areas. Although this patient has mild itching, tinea capitis is usually associated with intense pruritus. Also, tinea capitis mainly occurs in small children and generally occurs in areas that contain hair follicles, making it an unlikely diagnosis in this 68-year-old bald man.

Image File: 1590-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55351077abc41.jpg

**F - Bowen disease** - Bowen disease is commonly associated with sun exposure and may be similar in appearance to this patient's lesion. However, it usually presents as a solitary lesion rather than the multiple ill-defined, confluent lesions seen on this patient's scalp. While Bowen disease cannot be entirely excluded without pathologic examination, based on the appearance of the lesions, another diagnosis is more likely in this patient.

**G - Amelanotic melanoma** - Amelanotic melanomas are associated with UV exposure and may be difficult to recognize, but they usually present as a pink or red macule, plaque, or nodule. Multiple erythematous, hyperkeratotic plaques with a rough texture suggest a different diagnosis.

Image File: 1590-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ab0554a077f.jpg

