### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - PCR for C. trachomatis and N. gonorrhea** - PCR is sensitive and specific for diagnosing gonorrhea and chlamydia, the most common sexually transmitted infections. The presence of secondary syphilis in this patient puts her at high risk of infection with other STIs, and screening is therefore indicated.

Image File: 1591-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59240a099b9b3.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Lumbar puncture** - Lumbar puncture is recommended in the diagnostic workup of suspected neurosyphilis (tertiary syphilis). This patient has symptoms of secondary syphilis but does not have any symptoms to suggest CNS involvement (e.g. dementia, Argyll-Robertson pupils, tabes dorsalis).

**B - Skin biopsy** - Skin biopsy can be helpful in diagnosing primary syphilis (dark-field microscopy to visualize spirochetes). While a skin biopsy could possibly be used in secondary syphilis to detect presence of T. pallidum by either immunohistochemical or PCR techniques, this test is not sensitive and is not part of the diagnostic algorithm for secondary syphilis. Furthermore, the serologic results in this patient have already confirmed syphilis infection, so a skin biopsy is not necessary.

**C - Blood cultures** - The organism responsible for syphilis infection, T. pallidum, cannot be cultured in the laboratory. Diagnosis of syphilis infection is based on direct visualization of the spirochete in active lesions (in the case of primary syphilis), or based on serologic testing (in the case of advanced syphilis). This patient's serologic tests already confirm a diagnosis of syphilis and she does not have any other indication for blood culture testing at this time.

**D - Dark-field microscopy** - Dark-field microscopy can detect spirochetes from active lesions (e.g. chancres) and can be used to diagnose syphilis. However, the combination of a positive rapid plasma reagin and fluorescent treponemal antibody test is sufficient to diagnose syphilis, making this test unnecessary.

**E - HIV-1/HIV-2 differentiation immunoassay** - HIV-1/HIV-2 differentiation immunoassay is a confirmatory test used to diagnose HIV in patients with a positive HIV screening test (e.g., positive antigen-antibody combination HIV-1/HIV-2 immunoassay). Although HIV screening is indicated in patients who are diagnosed with syphilis, the confirmatory test is only recommended for patients who have a positive screening test.

**F - CT angiography of the chest** - CT angiography of the chest could be used if vascular complications of tertiary syphilis (e.g. aortic aneurysm, aortitis, and aortic root dilation) were expected. However, this patient's fever, rash, and myalgias are hallmarks of secondary syphilis. She does not have any clinical findings to suggest tertiary syphilis at this time.

