### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Toxic epidermal necrolysis** - Fever, mucositis, skin tenderness, and a blistering rash that develop within 1 month of exposure to a triggering medication, such as a sulfonamide drug, are consistent with a diagnosis of toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN). This condition is a severe form of Stevens-Johnson syndrome characterized by the involvement of > 30% body surface area. Skin lesions typically start on the face and trunk before spreading symmetrically to other areas. These lesions begin as painful, targetoid lesions (e.g., erythematous macules with purpuric centers) that progress to form vesicles and bullae before eventually causing extensive, full-thickness epidermal necrosis and sloughing of the skin at the dermoepidermal junction. Nikolsky sign is typically present. Because TEN also commonly involves the mucous membranes, it can also result in mucositis, ulcers, odynophagia (from pharyngitis), dysphagia (from esophagitis), photophobia (from conjunctivitis), and urogenital complications (e.g., urethritis, genital ulcers).

Image File: 1592-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_547854aac3aa8.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome** - Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome (SSSS) can manifest with fever, painful and diffuse skin blistering, and a positive Nikolsky sign, which are seen here. However, because SSSS typically spares mucous membranes, affected individuals do not develop photophobia (from conjunctivitis), sore throat (from pharyngitis), or oral or vaginal ulcers. In addition, this condition most commonly occurs in children < 6 years of age, and the onset of blisters is typically preceded by a staphylococcal infection (e.g., impetigo), which is not consistent with this patient's presentation.

Image File: 1592-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5977837e77709.jpg

**B - Bullous pemphigoid** - Bullous pemphigoid (BP) can be triggered by sulfonamide drugs (e.g., trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole). It can also manifest with vesicles and bullae, which are seen here. However, because BP typically spares mucous membranes, affected individuals do not develop photophobia (from conjunctivitis), sore throat (from pharyngitis), or oral or vaginal ulcers. In addition, BP does not usually cause fever, a rash of varying morphology (e.g., macules, vesicles, and targetoid lesions), or a positive Nikolsky sign. Moreover, peak incidence of BP is among patients > 60 years of age.

Image File: 1592-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_547454f18f542.jpg

**D - Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis** - Acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) is a condition that can be triggered by sulfonamide drugs (e.g., trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole) and manifest with fever and a vesicular rash. However, AGEP typically spares the mucous membranes. Therefore, patients do not develop photophobia (from conjunctivitis), sore throat (from pharyngitis), or oral or vaginal ulcers. In addition, AGEP is most commonly associated with the widespread development of pinhead-sized pustules accompanied by edematous erythema with flexural accentuation; bullae are uncommon. Moreover, AGEP typically manifests within a few days of drug exposure.

**E - Pemphigus vulgaris** - Pemphigus vulgaris (PV) can manifest with painful vesicles and bullae on mucous membranes and the skin, as well as a positive Nikolsky sign. It can be triggered by NSAIDs (e.g., ibuprofen), which this patient has been taking. However, PV does not typically cause fever or a rash of varying morphology (e.g., macules, vesicles, and targetoid lesions). In addition, peak incidence of PV is among patients 40–60 years of age.

Image File: 1592-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_607bd90022b60.jpg

**F - Erythema multiforme** - Erythema multiforme (EM) is a condition that can be triggered by sulfonamide drugs (e.g., trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole). It can also manifest with an acute rash of varying morphology (e.g., macules, vesicles, and targetoid lesions) that is symmetrically distributed. EM with severe mucosal involvement and systemic symptoms (e.g., fever) is called erythema multiforme major. Unlike the rash seen here, EM skin lesions are typically painless and most commonly begin on the backs of the hands and feet before spreading proximally to involve other areas, including the palms and soles. In addition, EM is most commonly triggered by infections (e.g., Mycoplasma pneumoniae); drug triggers account for < 10% of cases.

Image File: 1592-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58807ab709d02.jpg

