### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Prescribe acetaminophen and reassure the patient** - This patient's surgical wound is healing by primary intention (primary wound closure), which occurs in 4 phases. The first 3 phases (exudative, resorptive, proliferative) occur over approx. 1 week and the last phase (maturation) proceeds over weeks to months. During the resorptive phase, vasodilation occurs due to the release of cytokines and growth factors (e.g., PAF, PDGF, TGF-β) by inflammatory cells, which leads to mild tenderness and redness, as seen here. Moreover, a slight increase in leukocyte count and inflammatory markers may also occur after surgery, although this patient's leukocyte count and erythrocyte sedimentation rate are in the normal range. In the absence of features suggestive of wound complications such as fever, severe tenderness, erythema, and induration, conservative management and reassurance are sufficient. Conservative management includes analgesia with acetaminophen (which is also safe during breastfeeding), local application of ice or warm compresses, and keeping the wound site clean and dry.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cover wound with moist dressing and plan surgical revision** - Covering the wound with a moist dressing and planning for surgical revision is indicated in patients with early fascial dehiscence at the incision site, which can occur after any type of abdominal surgery. However, fascial dehiscence typically manifests 4–14 days after surgery and is characterized by profuse serosanguinous drainage, a “popping” sensation, or bulge during Valsalva maneuvers, none of which is seen here.

**C - Obtain a wound swab and start intravenous cefazolin** - A wound swab and IV cefazolin are indicated in patients with suspected surgical site infection (SSI). Although SSIs can develop in all types of surgical wounds, they rarely occur in the first 4 days following the procedure. Moreover, this patient lacks the typical findings of SSI, such as fever, severe tenderness, erythema, induration, and leukocytosis. Empiric antibiotic therapy with cefazolin is only indicated in patients with erythema and induration extending > 5 cm from the wound edge, fever > 38.5°C (101.3°F), heart rate > 110/min, or a WBC count > 12,000 cells/mm3, none of which is seen here.

**D - Perform ultrasound of the lower abdomen and suprapubic region** - Ultrasound of the lower abdomen and suprapubic region can be used to assess for a seroma or hematoma, which can manifest a few days after surgery with localized pain or drainage of fluids, both of which are seen here. However, mild pain around an incision site and a dry, well-approximated wound without severe swelling do not suggest a seroma/hematoma.

**E - Apply topical mupirocin and aseptic wound dressing** - Aseptic wound dressing should be used for all surgical wounds, while topical mupirocin is indicated in patients with superficial skin infections. Although mild redness and tenderness, as seen here, can occur with superficial skin infections, other characteristic features of infection, such as fever, localized warmth, induration, and pus at the incision site, would also be expected in this patient.

