### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Administer specific immunoglobulin** - The use of varicella-zoster immunoglobulin (passive immunization) as postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) for chickenpox is indicated in premature newborns born after 28 weeks' gestation to mothers with no evidence of immunity to VZV, as seen here (this patient's mother has never had chickenpox). PEP prevents disease onset or mitigates the course of the disease and must be given within 10 days following exposure (ideally within 4 days). Other indications for passive postexposure immunoprophylaxis include newborns born before 28 weeks' gestation regardless of the mother's immunity status, pregnant women or immunosuppressed patients with no evidence of immunity to VZV, and newborns whose mother was infected between 5 days before and up to 2 days after birth.

Image File: 1595-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f22ec1f44e76.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Observe and reevaluate the next day** - A watchful waiting approach is indicated in patients who have a low risk of developing complications from chickenpox. Because premature newborns, like this patient's brother, are at increased risk of developing complications from VZV infection, a watchful waiting approach is not appropriate.

**B - Administer acyclovir** - Acyclovir is used to treat chickenpox in individuals who are at high risk of developing complications, such as immunocompromised patients, unvaccinated adolescents ≥ 13 years of age, adults, and individuals on long-term salicylates therapy. This patient's newborn brother does not yet have chickenpox; therefore, treatment with antiviral therapy is not indicated. In this case, the focus must be on disease prevention.

**C - Administer specific live-attenuated vaccine** - A live attenuated vaccine is used to actively immunize against varicella. Following varicella exposure, postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) with active immunization is indicated for immunocompetent individuals who are not pregnant and not yet immune against varicella (either as a result of previous VZV infection or completed routine childhood varicella immunization); the varicella vaccine would be used as PEP for this patient's mother. However, because guidelines do not permit the use of the varicella vaccine before the age of 12 months, a different method of PEP is indicated for this patient's brother.

**E - Administer specific conjugate polysaccharide vaccine** - Conjugate polysaccharide vaccines include vaccines against Haemophilus influenzae serotype b, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis, and Salmonella typhi. Active immunization against chickenpox is performed with a different type of vaccine. The H. influenza serotype b (Hib) vaccine and S. pneumoniae conjugate vaccine (PCV13) would be administered to the patient's brother as a part of routine immunization but only at 2 months of age. The N. meningitidis conjugate vaccine is only indicated at 11–12 years of age and the S. typhi conjugate vaccine is not a part of the routine immunization schedule.

**F - Measure specific IgG titer** - Measurement of specific anti-VZV IgG titers is performed as part of antenatal care for pregnant women who have not had chickenpox or not received the varicella vaccine in order to determine immunity against VZV and the need for post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) against varicella. In cases of varicella exposure in preterm neonates born to a mother with no evidence of immunity to VZV, guidelines do not recommend serological testing before administering PEP.

