### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Infantile hemangioma** - Infantile hemangiomas, also known as strawberry hemangiomas, are benign, vascular tumors that occur in ∼ 10% of infants. These lesions are most commonly found on the head and neck and initially appear as a flat lesion or group of telangiectasias that progresses to a red papule or plaque. Although often solitary, patients can develop multiple lesions as seen in this boy. Histopathology is not necessary for diagnosis but will demonstrate clusters of thin-walled capillaries lined with angioblastic endothelial cells that grow rapidly during the proliferation stage. Treatment is often not required because the lesions are usually asymptomatic and regress spontaneously within years. For rapidly growing lesions or lesions around the eye, therapies include administration of propranolol, cryotherapy, laser ablation, and surgical resection to avoid complications such as ulceration or disfigurement.

Image File: 1597-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59198afd2e839.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Naevus flammeus** - A naevus flammeus (port-wine stain) is a benign, vascular lesion that can also present in young children. However, these lesions are often congenital and appear as blanchable, pink-red patches that grow and become thicker and darker over time.

Image File: 1597-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a967000177e8.jpg

**C - Verruca vulgaris** - Verruca vulgaris (common warts) can also present as multiple, localized, papular lesions in young children. They characteristically appear as rough, scaly papules or plaques (sometimes with a cauliflower-like appearance) on the elbows, knees, fingers, and/or palms, which is inconsistent with this child's lesions. Also, warts typically regress spontaneously within two years of presentation.

Image File: 1597-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9176e6af.jpg

**D - Neurofibromas** - Although neurofibromas can also present as multiple, papular lesions on the face of young children, they are characteristically skin-colored, unlike the red papules seen on this boy's face. Moreover, multiple neurofibromas in children are characteristic of neurofibromatosis type 1, which would present with other features such as café au lait spots, Lisch nodules, axillary and inguinal freckling, bone involvement, and vision abnormalities, none of which are present in this patient.

Image File: 1597-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94eef722.jpg

**E - Spider angioma** - Although spider angioma are also benign, vascular lesions, they more characteristically present on the trunk as a central red arteriole with numerous, thin, arterial extensions (resembling a spider's body). Also, spider angioma typically occur in patients with excess estrogen exposure (e.g., patients with cirrhosis).

Image File: 1597-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_585be8baa3569.jpg

**F - Molluscum contagiosum** - Molluscum contagiosum can also present as multiple, localized, papular lesions on the face of young children. However, these lesions are typically flesh-colored, pearly, dome-shaped, umbilicated papules that regress spontaneously within 6–9 months. Also, molluscum contagiosum is less likely to present shortly after birth.

Image File: 1597-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d948278d7.jpg

