### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Parvovirus arthritis** - Parvovirus B19 infection, also known as erythema infectiosum or fifth disease, is a common childhood disease that can also affect adults. The disease typically manifests with mild febrile illness, occasionally followed by a maculopapular rash beginning on the perioral areas of the face several days later and spreading to the extremities from there. As the rash clears, it adopts a lacy and reticular pattern, as seen in this patient. More commonly in adults, parvovirus B19 infection may also present with symptoms of symmetric polyarthritis in the fingers, hands, knees, and ankles while the rash can be absent. The disease is usually self limited and treatment is supportive, involving analgesics and NSAIDs. A short course of prednisone can be prescribed for parvovirus B19-associated arthritis.

Image File: 1598-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ebbc451dc09a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Systemic lupus erythematosus** - Common findings in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) include fever and joint pain as seen in this young female patient. However, dermatologic findings of lupus often include a malar rash, photosensitivity, or discoid lupus rather than a self-limited reticular rash on the extremities. In addition, this patient also has normal hemoglobin, normal ESR, negative anti-nuclear antibodies, negative anti-dsDNA, and normal renal function, which would be unlikely in SLE.

Image File: 1598-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d942149bd.jpg

**C - Reactive arthritis** - Reactive arthritis presents with the classic triad of acute onset of arthritis, conjunctivitis, and urethritis in roughly a third of cases. Although reactive arthritis can also be associated with fever and a runny nose, joint involvement usually includes asymmetrical migratory polyarthritis in the lower extremities, sacroiliitis, or enthesopathy. Furthermore, the patient does not have conjunctivitis, uveitis, oral lesions, diarrhea, or any urogenital tract symptoms that also present with reactive arthritis.

**D - Disseminated gonococcal disease** - Around 2% of cases of Neisseria gonorrhoeae develop disseminated gonococcal infection (DGI). Although DGI may present with fever and polyarthralgias in the hands, this patient is missing other common symptoms such as dermatitis and tenosynovitis. Furthermore, the arthritis caused by DGI is a migratory asymmetric arthritis, while this patient has a symmetric polyarthritis in her hands and wrists.

Image File: 1598-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d916d5cdd.jpg

**E - Psoriatic arthritis** - Psoriatic arthritis can present with or without skin or nail findings and can also cause either a symmetrical polyarthritis as in this patient or an asymmetrical oligoarticular arthritis. However, the condition commonly involves the spine, the sacroiliac joint, and the distal interphalangeal joints, none of which are affected in this patient. Furthermore, psoriatic arthritis does not cause a reticular rash on the extremities, and lab values typically show an elevated ESR as psoriatic arthritis is an inflammatory condition.

**F - Rheumatoid arthritis** - Although this patient had symptoms that could be attributable to rheumatoid arthritis, such as fever and symmetric polyarthralgia in the hands and wrists, this diagnosis is less likely because of her rash, normal ESR, and acute onset. If her arthritis symptoms do not resolve within a few weeks, however, she should undergo more specific testing for rheumatoid arthritis.

