### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Randomized controlled trial** - Randomized controlled trials (RCTs), which compare different treatment options against each other (e.g., hydroxychloroquine vs. placebo), are appropriate to ascertain the efficacy of a treatment. RCTs establish causality through hypothesis testing; study participants are randomly allocated to either the new treatment/intervention group or the control group and subsequently evaluated for the outcome of interest. Randomization reduces bias and confounding and confers a high level of evidence to these studies. The highest level of evidence is attributed to systematic reviews with metaanalysis of RCTs, followed by individual RCTs.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Case report** - A case report is an observational study that describes the clinical course of a disease in a single patient case (e.g., one patient taking hydroxychloroquine after exposure to the new virus strain) and can help establish a hypothesis. However, case reports have limited generalizability and do not establish causality, because they do not test hypotheses. Therefore, case reports do not provide the best possible evidence for devising a treatment strategy.

**B - Case control study** - In a case control study, study participants are first selected from a population based on a given outcome - individuals with the outcome (e.g., infection with the new virus strain) are assigned to a comparison group, and those without it are assigned to a control group. The frequency of exposure to a modifier (e.g., hydroxychloroquine use) is then analyzed for each group. Case control studies can test a hypothesis and establish some degree of causal inference, so they can be used to devise a treatment strategy. However, case control studies are observational, analytical studies that do not manipulate the modifier; other study designs have a higher level of evidence.

**C - Cross-sectional study** - A cross-sectional study evaluates the point prevalence of an exposure and/or outcome using data assessed individually from all participants (e.g., assessment of hydroxychloroquine use and infection status through a survey). Cross-sectional studies can show associations and help establish a hypothesis. However, as these studies do not test hypotheses, they do not establish causality. Therefore, cross-sectional studies do not provide good evidence to devise a treatment strategy.

**D - Ecological study** - An ecological study evaluates the point prevalence of an exposure and/or outcome using population-based data (e.g., evaluation of hydroxychloroquine use for postexposure prophylaxis and assessment of active infections with the new virus strain in different states using data from local health authority reports). Ecological studies can show associations and help establish a hypothesis. However, these studies do not test hypotheses, so they do not establish causality. Therefore, ecological studies do not provide the best possible evidence for devising a treatment strategy.

**E - Prospective cohort study** - In a prospective cohort study, individuals with similar characteristics are categorized into groups based on their exposure to a modifier (e.g., hydroxychloroquine use), and these groups are followed over a period of time to determine the incidence of a given outcome (e.g., infection with the new virus strain). Prospective cohort studies can test a hypothesis and establish a certain level of causal inference, so they can be used to devise treatment strategies. However, prospective cohort studies are observational, analytical studies that do not manipulate the modifier; other study designs have a higher level of evidence.

**F - Case series report** - A case series report is an observational study that describes the clinical course of a disease by aggregating similar patient cases (e.g., several patients taking hydroxychloroquine after exposure to the new virus strain). Case series reports can help establish a hypothesis, but have limited generalizability and do not establish causality, as they do not test hypotheses. Therefore, case series reports do not provide the best possible evidence for devising a treatment strategy.

