### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Thyroglossal cyst** - A thyroglossal cyst arises if the thyroglossal duct fails to obliterate completely during embryonal development. The cyst can develop anywhere along the path of the thyroglossal duct. Like the thyroid gland, the thyroglossal cyst is enclosed within the pretracheal fascia, which is responsible for the upward movement of these structures during swallowing. In addition, a thyroglossal cyst moves upward with tongue protrusion because the fibrous remnants of the thyroglossal duct are connected to the base of the tongue.

Image File: 1601-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58b42122ca2c7.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Ranula** - A ranula is a mucocele arising from the sublingual gland that manifests as a translucent, dome-shaped, blue mass below the tongue. Although large lesions can cause swelling of the neck, this would occur lateral to the midline and would not move upwards with tongue protrusion or swallowing.

**C - Laryngocele** - Laryngocele, a saccular dilatation of the laryngeal ventricle, can herniate through the thyrohyoid membrane and appear as a lateral neck swelling. The neck mass is typically small, air-filled sac that increases in size with Valsalva maneuver.

**D - Cystic hygroma** - A cystic hygroma is a congenital malformation of the lymphatic system in the neck. The neck mass is typically painless, soft, and compressible, and is located in the posterior triangle of the neck. Cystic hygroma is associated with fetal aneuploidy (e.g., Turner syndrome).

Image File: 1601-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58b422c8d11b5.jpg

**E - Dermoid cyst** - Dermoid cysts are cystic teratomas that can arise anywhere in the body, including the neck. As a neck mass, they usually manifest at 10–20 years of age as a slow-growing mass in the submandibular or sublingual space.

**F - Branchial cyst** - Branchial cysts can arise if the 2nd branchial cleft fails to obliterate completely. These neck masses are typically painless and firm, as in this patient, but located lateral to the midline and anterior to the sternocleidomastoid muscle. They do not move with protrusion of the tongue or swallowing.

