### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Apply aloe vera-based moisturizer** - Topical moisturizers, such as those that contain aloe vera or calamine, are recommended to relieve symptoms of 1st-degree burns. These burns only involve the superficial epidermis and spare the dermis. The keratin barrier thus remains intact, retaining fluid and barring microbial entry. For this reason, no antimicrobial prophylaxis, fluid support, or debridement is necessary. Oral NSAIDs (e.g., ibuprofen) may be given for pain and inflammation associated with sunburns. Important preventative measures to avoid sunburns include avoidance of direct sunlight (especially during mid-day), protective clothing, and application of broad-spectrum sunscreens (with sun protective factor ≥ 30) 15–30 minutes prior to sun exposure. Sunscreen should be reapplied every 2 hours and after water exposure.

Image File: 1602-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5899beb11a723.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Dress wound with wet gauze** - Wound dressing is indicated for open burns (i.e., partial-thickness or full-thickness burns) because they entail damage to the entire epidermal layer. In these cases, the ability of the skin to retain fluid is lost, making it prone to drying, which impairs wound healing and increases the risk of dehydration. This patient has no open burns, so dressing is not recommended.

**B - Administer 2 liters of intravenous fluids** - Intravenous fluid resuscitation is indicated for burns that are partial-thickness or deeper (2nd-degree burns to 4th-degree burns), and generally only when the total body surface area involved is ≥ 20%, as these burns cause excessive fluid loss that cannot be sufficiently replaced orally. This patient has 1st-degree burns, in which the epidermis is intact and prevents fluid loss, and has no signs of hypovolemia (normotensive and normal heart rate). Therefore, intravenous fluid resuscitation is unnecessary.

**C - Apply lidocaine cream** - Lidocaine cream can potentially irritate damaged skin and should therefore generally be avoided in the management of sunburns.

**D - Debride exfoliated skin** - Debridement is indicated when the dermis is exposed (i.e., partial-thickness or full-thickness burns) to aid in wound healing. This patient has 1st-degree burns, which do not expose the dermis; debridement is unnecessary. In addition, because the dermis is intact, the burn will resolve on its own without scarring.

**E - Apply topical mupirocin** - Topical antimicrobial prophylaxis (e.g., mupirocin) is indicated for deep partial-thickness burns and full-thickness burns. This patient has a 1st-degree burn (with an intact epidermal barrier that protects against infection), which does not require antimicrobial prophylaxis.

