### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Pemphigus vulgaris** - Pemphigus vulgaris is an autoimmune blistering disorder caused by autoantibodies against desmosomal adhesion proteins such as desmoglein 3 and desmoglein 1. Medications such as captopril, glibenclamide, thiol-containing drugs (e.g., penicillamine), and phenol-containing drugs (e.g., cephalosporins, rifampicin, phenobarbital, aspirin) can induce the formation of these autoantibodies. Since desmosomal adhesion proteins enable keratinocyte adherence, damage to these proteins causes intraepidermal bullae formation and a positive Nikolsky sign. The lesions typically occur first on mucous membranes and can become confluent or erode to form painful ulcers. Pemphigus vulgaris is treated with high-dose systemic corticosteroids and other immunosuppressive medications (e.g., azathioprine, IVIG, rituximab). Severe pemphigus vulgaris can be fatal, as it can lead to bacterial superinfection, fluid loss, and/or electrolyte imbalance.

Image File: 1603-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_545ce3a6bfa9f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Lichen planus** - Lichen planus typically affects patients 30–60 years of age and may present with lesions on the skin as well as the mucous membranes of the oral cavity and/or genitalia. Antihypertensive drugs have been known to trigger lichen planus-like eruptions. However, lichen planus usually manifests as firm, shiny, reddish-purple, polygonal papules that are intensely pruritic, and the enanthem would typically appear as white streaks forming a lace-like network (Wickham striae) or fixed white plaques. Blister formation is not usually seen in patients with lichen planus.

Image File: 1603-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_541069a66fd35.jpg

**B - Toxic epidermal necrolysis** - Toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be induced by therapy with oxicam NSAIDs such as meloxicam, would result in blisters of the skin and mucous membranes as well as a positive Nikolsky sign. However, TEN usually occurs within 8 weeks of initiating therapy with the drug, but this patient had presumably been on meloxicam for a longer period; TEN is not typically associated with ACE inhibitors such as captopril. Moreover, patients with TEN typically have widespread involvement of the skin surface (> 30% of the body surface area) and systemic features such as fever, tachycardia, and hypotension.

Image File: 1603-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_547854aac3aa8.jpg

**C - Behcet disease** - Behcet disease can cause painful oral and genital ulcers as well as cutaneous lesions. However, the cutaneous manifestations of Behcet disease typically appear as papulopustular lesions or lesions resembling erythema nodosum; blisters are not seen. Moreover, Behcet disease typically occurs between 20–40 years, and clinical features of uveitis such as decreased vision, eye pain, red eye, and/or hypopyon would be present.

**D - Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome** - SSSS can present with painful blisters and a positive Nikolsky sign. However, the disease typically occurs in children below the age of 6 years and blisters would be accompanied by erythema of the surrounding skin and features of systemic toxicity such as fever and/or malaise. Also, mucosal involvement does not occur in the condition, and the onset of blisters would be preceded by a staphylococcal infection (e.g., impetigo, staphylococcal diarrhea).

**E - Dermatitis herpetiformis** - Dermatitis herpetiformis can cause blistering of the skin. However, dermatitis herpetiformis typically affects the extensor surfaces of elbows, knees, and buttocks, and patients usually complain of intense pruritus. Mucosal involvement does not typically occur.

Image File: 1603-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93140b83.jpg

**F - Bullous pemphigoid** - Bullous pemphigoid can be caused by captopril and would present with cutaneous blisters. However, the blisters are typically tense and occur symmetrically, with a predilection for intertriginous areas. Moreover, a prodromal phase that is characterized by pruritus and papules/urticarial lesions/skin excoriations would occur, the Nikolsky sign would be negative, and mucous membranes (especially those of the genitalia) would typically be spared.

