### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Stevens-Johnson syndrome** - Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) is a rare yet serious adverse effect of carbamazepine, as well as many other drugs (e.g., phenytoin, lamotrigine, and valproate). It initially manifests with fever and flu-like symptoms (e.g., chills and myalgias). The classic cutaneous manifestation consists of painful, erythematous, annular macules with pruritic centers that begin on the face and thorax and spread symmetrically to the extremities, which are accompanied by stomatitis, mucositis, conjunctivitis, and/or corneal ulceration. Physical examination often shows a positive Nikolsky sign, as seen in this patient. The skin lesions ultimately progress to areas of desquamation involving 10–30% of the total body surface area.

Image File: 1604-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55360003e7b86.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bullous pemphigoid** - Bullous pemphigoid classically affects elderly adults, manifesting with tense bullae (negative Nikolsky sign) on the skin, without involvement of the oral or ocular mucosa. Furthermore, there is no known association between carbamazepine and bullous pemphigoid.

Image File: 1604-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_547454f18f542.jpg

**C - Pemphigus vulgaris** - Pemphigus vulgaris classically manifests with cutaneous flaccid bullae that can affect the oral mucosa but spare the palms and soles. The bullae have a positive Nikolsky sign and tend to rupture easily, leading to significant pain and bleeding; however, pruritus would not be expected following rupture. Moreover, it would be very rare for pemphigus vulgaris to arise following treatment with carbamazepine.

Image File: 1604-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5974a5211bf27.jpg

**D - Erythema multiforme** - Erythema multiforme (EM) is most commonly associated with herpes simplex virus or Mycoplasma pneumoniae infections but can also rarely occur as an adverse effect of carbamazepine. EM usually manifests with asymptomatic, erythematous target-shaped lesions. EM lesions classically arise as a symmetrical distribution on the acral and extensor surfaces of the extremities, which then spreads proximally and may include the palms and soles. Involvement of the mucous membranes, as seen in this patient, would be atypical.

Image File: 1604-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58807ab709d02.jpg

**E - Drug-induced lupus erythematosus** - Drug-induced lupus is associated with a variety of drugs, including sulfa-drugs, antiepileptics (e.g. carbamazepine or phenytoin), and TNF-α blockers. The condition initially manifests with systemic symptoms (e,g., fevers, myalgias, and arthralgias) and may cause serositis (e.g. pleuritis and pericarditis) or hematologic abnormalities (e.g., anemia, leukopenia, and/or thrombocytopenia). Cutaneous manifestations are less common in drug-induced lupus than in idiopathic lupus. When present, the rash associated with drug-induced lupus takes the form of large, erythematous patches rather than the bullae with a positive Nikolsky sign seen in this patient.

**F - DRESS syndrome** - Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) is a rare drug-induced hypersensitivity reaction that is caused by a variety of drugs, including carbamazepine. While it manifests with fever, affected patients also have facial edema and lymphadenopathy, neither of which are seen in this patient. Moreover, the rash is usually a morbilliform eruption that quickly evolves into a diffuse, confluent rash involving > 50% of the body surface area. The presence of bullae and a positive Nikolsky sign are inconsistent with DRESS syndrome.

Image File: 1604-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60e59afa61627.jpg

**G - Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome** - Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome (SSSS) is caused by S. aureus exfoliative toxin. SSSS manifests with systemic symptoms (e.g., fever and malaise) and diffuse, flaccid bullae along the flexural surfaces, hands, feet, and buttock; the Nikolsky sign is typically positive. However, SSSS is most often seen in the pediatric population following a staphylococcal infection (e.g., impetigo), which this adult patient has no history of. Finally, mucosal involvement, as seen in this patient, would be very unusual.

Image File: 1604-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5977837e77709.jpg

