### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Malignant melanoma** - A painless, irregularly shaped, brown-black pigmented lesion involving the toe and nail bed is consistent with acral lentiginous melanoma. This subtype mainly affects dark-skinned and Asian populations. She has also had night sweats, which may be a symptom of malignant disease.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cholesterol embolism** - Rather than a painless pigmented lesion, cholesterol embolism of the skin usually manifests as livedo reticularis, acrocyanosis (blue toe syndrome), or necrosis and it is usually painful. The patient underwent percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for myocardial infarction, which can precipitate the release of cholesterol from atherosclerotic plaques and lead to cholesterol embolization syndrome shortly after the intervention. This patient's PCI, however, was seven months ago, making the diagnosis unlikely.

Image File: 1605-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58a42dbd39ad6.jpg

**B - Traumatic subungual hemorrhage** - Subungual hematomas may appear as dark-colored macules. However, this diagnosis is less likely given no history of trauma to the foot and the absence of pain and swelling in the affected nail.

**D - Onychomycosis** - Though this patient presents with a single dark-colored subungual macule, onychomycosis typically involves the whole nail and manifests as discolored (white, gray, or yellow) and brittle nails.

Image File: 1605-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58456c6268937.jpg

**E - Squamous cell carcinoma** - Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) may rarely involve the nail bed. Also, unlike in this patient, SCCs are usually small, red tumors that may result in paronychia, pain, and bleeding.

Image File: 1605-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_606d9a9af38ef.jpg

