### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Postinfectious glomerulonephritis** - Postinfectious glomerulonephritis (or poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis, PSGN) is a complication of infections with group A Streptococcus (S. pyogenes; GAS) such as scarlet fever, tonsillopharyngitis, or impetigo. PSGN is caused by immune complex deposition and subsequent destruction of the glomeruli. Patients typically present with symptoms of nephritic syndrome (e.g., hypertension, edema, hematuria).

Image File: 1607-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb56ed724fa6.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Coronary artery aneurysms** - Coronary artery aneurysms can occur as a complication of Kawasaki disease (KD), which presents with fever, a polymorphous rash, conjunctivitis, cervical lymphadenopathy, and erythema or edema of the hands, feet, and tongue (strawberry tongue). KD is a clinical diagnosis and requires a fever for at least 5 days in combination with at least 4 of the symptoms listed above. While it is certainly an important differential diagnosis in this case (erythematous tongue, rash, fever), the patient does not fulfill the other diagnostic criteria for KD.

Image File: 1607-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60aba00e7d68b.jpg

**B - Hemolytic anemia** - Hemolytic anemia is a very rare complication of fifth disease (parvovirus B19 infection). Patients with fifth disease usually present similarly to the patient in this case, with flu-like symptoms, an exanthem on trunk and extremities, and a “slapped-cheek” rash with perioral sparing. However, this patient's pharyngitis and a strawberry tongue are not typical of fifth disease and instead suggest scarlet fever.

Image File: 1607-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ebbc451dc09a.jpg

**C - Hodgkin lymphoma** - Infectious mononucleosis is associated with several neoplasias, including Hodgkin lymphoma, Burkitt lymphoma, nasopharyngeal carcinoma, and hairy leukoplakia. IM can present with many symptoms that are similar to the ones seen in this patient such as fever, pharyngitis, and, occasionally, a maculopapular rash (usually following the administration of an aminopenicillin). However, other common features of IM such as splenomegaly, cervical lymphadenopathy, and exudative tonsillitis are absent in this patient. Also, laboratory evaluation in IM usually shows marked lymphocytosis. Perioral pallor and an erythematous tongue suggest another diagnosis.

Image File: 1607-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_533954a18a978.jpg

**E - Encephalitis** - Encephalitis is a dangerous late complication of measles or chickenpox. Because this patient has not received the recommended childhood vaccinations, this patient is at increased risk of developing several diseases, including measles and chickenpox. However, the rash typical of measles is usually preceded by coryza, cough and conjunctivitis (the “3 Cs”) and an enanthem of the buccal mucosa (Koplik spots), all of which are absent in this patient. Chickenpox, moreover, is notable for severely pruritic rash with macules that rapidly develop into papules and vesicles. Sore throat, perioral pallor, and an erythematous tongue suggest another diagnosis.

Image File: 1607-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb90ff11db7d.jpg

