### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Intralesional triamcinolone therapy** - Intralesional injection of corticosteroids (e.g., triamcinolone) is the treatment of choice for limited, patchy alopecia areata, a type of chronic hair loss caused by immune-mediated inflammation of hair follicles. Injections are typically administered monthly until hair regrowth is complete. Individuals who do not tolerate intralesional injections can be treated with topical steroids. Patients with extensive alopecia areata are often treated with topical immunotherapy (e.g., diphenylcyclopropenone or squaric acid dibutyl ester). Not all patients with alopecia areata respond to treatment, and the rate of recurrence is high. Since hair loss can cause severe distress, psychological support is an important component of therapy.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Topical minoxidil therapy** - Topical minoxidil is a treatment option for androgenic alopecia and telogen effluvium, both of which can manifest with progressive, nonscarring hair loss. Telogen effluvium can develop rapidly following severe emotional stress (e.g., the loss of a loved one). However, both conditions typically manifest with diffuse hair loss most noticeable in the bitemporal region, whereas this patient has multiple smooth, well-defined bald patches across the scalp. The hair pull test is usually positive in patients with telogen effluvium and negative in patients with androgenic alopecia. Topical minoxidil therapy is sometimes used in patients with alopecia areata if the cause of hair loss is suspected to be multifactorial (e.g., concurrent telogen effluvium), but it is not the treatment of choice.

**B - Oral finasteride therapy** - Oral finasteride is the treatment of choice for androgenic alopecia, a type of chronic hair loss caused by increased androgen sensitivity of the hair follicles in genetically predisposed individuals. Although androgenic alopecia can manifest during adolescence with progressive, nonscarring hair loss, affected individuals typically have gradual, bitemporal hair thinning (i.e., male pattern baldness) rather than rapid, patchy hair loss. Moreover, the hair pull test is typically negative in patients with androgenic alopecia. Oral finasteride is not used to treat alopecia areata.

Image File: 1615-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5aa6687da14ab.jpg

**C - Oral terbinafine therapy** - Oral antifungal therapy (e.g., terbinafine or griseofulvin) is the treatment of choice for tinea capitis, a dermatophyte infection that primarily occurs in children and can manifest with nonscarring, patchy alopecia with visible black spots. However, in tinea capitis, the affected scalp areas are scaly and erythematous. In addition, pruritus and cervical lymphadenopathy are common. Moreover, the hair pull test is typically negative in patients with tinea capitis. Oral antifungal therapy is not used to treat alopecia areata.

Image File: 1615-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f8424703d0f1.jpg

**E - Habit reversal therapy** - Habit reversal therapy is the treatment of choice for trichotillomania, a disorder characterized by the compulsion to pull out one's hair, which leads to nonscarring, patchy hair loss. This condition can manifest in adolescence, develop in association with a stressful event (e.g., loss of a loved one), and is associated with other psychiatric disorders (e.g., panic disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder). However, the bald scalp areas are typically ill-defined and diffuse with hairs of varying length due to different points of breakage and/or pulling at different times, whereas this patient has areas of smooth, well-defined bald patches. Moreover, the hair pull test is typically negative in patients with trichotillomania. Habit reversal therapy is not used to treat alopecia areata.

Image File: 1615-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5aa7c1ebd93a3.jpg

**F - Benzathine penicillin G therapy** - Benzathine penicillin G therapy is the treatment of choice for syphilis, which occasionally manifests with nonscarring patchy hair loss during the second stage of the disease. Sexual activity with multiple partners and inconsistent condom use increases the risk for sexually transmitted infections. However, hair loss associated with secondary syphilis typically produces a moth-eaten appearance, not the smooth, well-defined bald patches seen here. Moreover, this patient does not have further symptoms of syphilis, such as a polymorphic rash, condyloma lata, and, most importantly, constitutional symptoms (e.g., generalized nontender lymphadenopathy, fever, fatigue, myalgia). Benzathine penicillin G therapy is not used to treat alopecia areata.

Image File: 1615-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6108e630d62b2.jpg

