### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Azithromycin therapy** - Azithromycin, a macrolide antibiotic, is recommended for the treatment of both children and adults with cat scratch disease. Infection with Bartonella henselae, the bacteria responsible for cat scratch disease, generally results in a self-limited, mild course. However, azithromycin has been shown to decrease lymphadenopathy and decrease duration of illness.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Doxycycline therapy** - Doxycycline, a tetracycline antibiotic, can be considered for the treatment of patients with severe complicated cat scratch disease (e.g., retinitis, encephalitis, visceral involvement). This patient does not have any evidence of complicated infection and doxycycline is not warranted. Additionally, doxycycline is for use in children under 8 years of age only in short course to prevent tooth enamel hypoplasia and permanent tooth discoloration.

**B - Pyrimethamine therapy** - Pyrimethamine is an antiprotozoal drug used in the treatment of toxoplasmosis. It is extremely rare in immunocompetent hosts. If symptoms occur, they are usually limited to painless, cervical lymphadenopathy, as opposed to the findings in this patient (papule on the hand, diffuse lymphadenopathy).

**C - Itraconazole therapy** - Itraconazole can be used for treating sporotrichosis caused by the fungus Sporothrix schenckii, which is usually transmitted through small skin lesions when handling soil or moss. The most common presentation is a papule that may ulcerate, usually without any systemic symptoms. In rare cases, sporotrichosis may spread to other organs such as the lungs and cause systemic symptoms, but this almost only occurs in immunocompromised patients.

**E - Streptomycin therapy** - Streptomycin is an aminoglycoside effective against Yersinia pestis, which is spread through flea bites and causes the plague. The most common subtype is bubonic plague, which also presents with fever and weakness, followed by tender lymphadenopathy. Lymphadenopathy indicates that the infection has spread from the initial entry point on the hand throughout the body. In the case of plague, the presence of lymphadenopathy would indicate a severe and systemic course, often with gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., diarrhea, vomiting), followed by shock and multiple organ failure.

**F - Supportive care alone** - Most cases of cat scratch disease in immunocompetent patients are self-limited and resolve without antimicrobial treatment. Some expert groups recommend treatment even in mild cases of cat scratch disease to shorten the duration of illness. Supportive care alone would not be indicated in this patient with recurrent fever and bulky lymphadenopathy.

