### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Inform the head surgeon immediately about the incident** - Whenever a medical error is witnessed, as is the case here, the person who witnessed the error should speak up and directly inform the health care provider who committed the error without any regard for the workplace hierarchy, interpersonal relationships, or the potential of a career setback. The witness who fails to act is also culpable for the consequences of the error. Early medical error reporting might offer a chance for rectification (e.g., rescrubbing) and prevent a near miss (e.g., nonadherence with the sterile protocol) from becoming an adverse event (e.g., surgical site infection). Patient safety (nonmaleficence) is the foremost priority; a safety culture fosters the reporting of both active errors, as seen here, and latent errors. The health care provider who commits a medical error should report the error to the patient, regardless of the outcome of the error, as well as to the hospital board via an incident reporting system.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Inform the patient after the surgery** - Whenever a medical error occurs, the person who committed the error must inform the patient, even if the error were a near miss. Therefore, the head surgeon, rather than the student, should report the error to the patient. Furthermore, the most appropriate initial action by the student, in this case, should take place immediately and not after the surgery in order to ensure patient safety.

**B - Ask the head surgeon after the surgery if sterility was broken** - If the medical student is concerned that surgical sterility was broken, it would not be appropriate to wait until after surgery to rectify the situation. Right now, the medical error is a near miss because the surgeon's hand has dropped below the table but has not yet reentered the operating field; if the surgeon continues to perform the procedure, the patient will have an increased risk of developing a surgical site infection (an adverse event).

**C - Inform the operating room nurse immediately about the incident** - With this action, the medical student places the responsibility of error reporting on the operating room nurse, who might not have witnessed the event and would have to act based on hearsay. The nurse might also choose to remain silent to avoid a confrontation with the head surgeon. Even if the nurse decides to inform the surgeon, using an intermediary in communicating with the head surgeon would delay rectifying the error and potentially convert a near miss into an adverse event (surgical site infection).

**D - Pull the head surgeon immediately away from the operating field** - This action jeopardizes both the surgeon's and patient's safety by increasing the risk of a surgical mishap (e.g., scalpel injury) and could constitute assault.

