### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - "Why didn't you pick a lower number?"** - This response follows the motivational interviewing approach, a patient-centered counseling technique that supports behavior changes such as overcoming substance use disorders. For patients in the contemplation stage of behavior change, physicians can use a readiness scale to determine the patient's motivation to change. After the patient picks a number, the physician should ask them why they picked this number rather than a lower one. This open-ended question is a utilization of the framing effect and is intended to encourage the patient to self-reflect and focus on the cons of smoking and the pros of quitting, rather than the pros of smoking and the cons of quitting (2x2 decision matrix), enabling further discussion on the reasons to embrace change. When a decision committing to change has been made, patients move on to the preparation stage, in which a plan can be made.

Image File: 1619-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d67bac1cc890.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - "What things would be easy for you to change?"** - This response would be appropriate in the preparation stage, in which an achievable course of action to implement change should be determined. This patient, however, has not yet decided to make a behavioral change.

**B - "Have you ever wished you smoked fewer cigarettes?"** - Encouraging introspection on change would be appropriate in the precontemplation stage, in which patients are not yet aware of their problem and its consequences. This patient, however, recognizes that his behavior is harmful, meaning that he has already passed the precontemplation stage. For the stage of change that the patient is currently in, the physician should direct introspection toward reasons for change rather than the change itself. Moreover, closed-ended questions should be avoided when encouraging introspection, as they do not promote open discussion or allow patients to freely elicit their perspectives.

**C - "Which approach to change will work best for you?"** - This response would be appropriate in the preparation stage, in which an achievable course of action to implement change should be determined. This patient, however, has not yet decided to make a behavioral change.

**E - "What would keep you from going back to smoking?"** - This response would be appropriate in the maintenance stage, in which patients integrate changes into their lifestyle and try to implement strategies to prevent relapses. In this stage, physicians should try to support and praise ongoing positive changes and emphasize that relapses may occur and do not mean that the patient has failed. This patient, however, has not yet reached the maintenance stage because he has not decided to make a behavioral change.

