### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Medicaid** - Medicaid is a state and government funded health insurance plan that provides comprehensive coverage for hospital care, laboratory tests, diagnostic tests, and doctors visits. To be eligible for Medicaid, patients must be under 65 years of age and meet the income eligibility based on the modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) threshold set by the state's health insurance marketplace. Federal eligibility also extends to pregnant women, children, and individuals receiving supplemental security income (SSI). Those who are eligible for Medicaid must be US citizens (or qualify in other ways, e.g., lawful permanent residents) and live in the same state where Medicaid is received. Individual states have the additional option to modify eligibility.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Health maintenance organization** - A health maintenance organization (HMO) plan consists of a network of doctors, specialists, and hospitals that enrollees must choose from to obtain health care. No coverage is provided for out-of-network doctors, specialists, or hospitals, except in an emergency. Although the costs of an HMO plan are often low, this patient is eligible for another insurance program that can cover all of his medical costs because he is unemployed.

**B - Point of service** - A point of service (POS) plan consists of a network of doctors, specialists, and hospitals that enrollees can choose from to obtain health care. Enrollees have coverage for out-of-network providers, and a referral is needed from the primary care physician to see a specialist. Although the costs of in-network care in a POS plan can be low, this patient is eligible for another insurance program that can cover all of his medical costs because he is unemployed.

**C - Exclusive provider organization** - An exclusive provider organization (EPO) plan consists of a network of doctors, specialists, and hospitals that enrollees must choose from to get health care. No coverage is provided for out-of-network doctors, specialists, or hospitals, except in an emergency. Enrollees can be seen in-network without a referral from a primary care physician. Although member costs of an EPO plan are often low, this patient is eligible for another insurance program that can cover all of his medical costs because he is unemployed.

**D - Medicare** - Medicare is government-funded health insurance that consists of 4 parts, each of which provide coverage for different services. To be eligible for Medicare, patients must meet one of three criteria: be ≥ 65 years old, have end-stage renal failure or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or have permanent disabilities (regardless of age). This patient does not meet any of the criteria for Medicare coverage.

**E - Preferred provider organization** - A preferred provider organization (PPO) plan consists of a network of doctors, specialists, and hospitals that enrollees can choose from to get health care. PPO enrollees also have coverage for out-of-network providers and can see specialists without a referral from a primary care physician. PPO plans often have high member costs, so a PPO would not be the most appropriate insurance plan for this uninsured patient.

