### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Admit the patient and initiate appropriate treatment** - Although parental consent is usually required before minors (children < 18 years of age in most US states) receive medical care, it does not apply in emergency situations in which there is a legal obligation to treat in order to save a child's life or limb. Since severe neonatal hyperbilirubinemia has a very high risk of permanent brain damage and death, it is a life-threatening medical emergency and immediate therapy is necessary. If the medical condition threatens the child's life or limb and the effective treatment can be delayed for a short while (e.g., early-stage cancer), a court order should be obtained if parents refuse the treatment, assuming all other measures to convince the parents have failed. Parental refusal to consent to therapy is legally permitted when there is no risk of serious harm to the minor (e.g., for most vaccination refusals) or when the minor has a terminal condition that does not have any effective treatment (e.g., advanced metastatic cancer, certain high-grade brain tumors).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Seek a court order to override the parents' decision** - Seeking a court order to override parental refusal of treatment is appropriate for medical conditions that potentially threaten the child's life or limb but do not require immediate treatment (e.g., early-stage cancer). However, this newborn has a life-threatening condition that requires immediate intervention, and a court order would take some time to procure.

**C - Discharge the patient and notify child protective services** - Physicians are obligated to immediately file a report with child protective services (CPS) in the case of suspected child neglect or abuse. Although withholding treatment for life-threatening conditions, as the parents are doing here, can be counted as neglect, notifying CPS would not be the most appropriate initial action by the physician.

**D - Discharge the patient after the parents sign an "against medical advice" form** - Discharging a patient who is a minor against medical advice is appropriate if there is no risk of serious harm to the patient (e.g., most cases of vaccination refusal or refusal of palliative treatment in a terminally ill minor). However, this newborn's condition is life-threatening and urgent intervention is required.

