### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Ask the patient if she is taking any medications other than metformin** - To evaluate the potential cause of this patient's episodic hypoglycemia, a thorough review of her medications should be performed. This patient's history only indicates she is taking metformin, which does not increase the risk of developing hypoglycemia. Factitious hypoglycemia should be considered in this patient, especially given her occupation, which means that she should be asked about the possible use of insulin and insulin secretagogues (e.g., sulfonylureas, meglitinides).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Report the patient to her employer** - Reporting the patient to her employer is inappropriate because it breaks confidentiality. Physicians are ethically and legally obliged to keep patients' medical information confidential. Medical information should only be shared with an employer if the patient requests and authorizes it.

**C - Search the patient's belongings for insulin** - Searching the patient's belongings for insulin is inappropriate because it violates her privacy. The principle of autonomy, one of the core principles of medical ethics, involves respecting patient confidentiality and privacy.

**D - Measure glycated hemoglobin concentration** - Measurement of glycated hemoglobin concentration (HbA1c) is not the most appropriate next step in management for this patient. HbA1c is commonly used to diagnose and monitor the glycemic control of patients with diabetes mellitus and does not play a role in the evaluation of hypoglycemia.

**E - Measure serum C-peptide concentration** - Measurement of serum C-peptide concentration (in addition to serum insulin, proinsulin, and insulin secretagogue concentrations) during hypoglycemic episodes is used to evaluate patients who are suspected of factitious hypoglycemia. Though this diagnosis should be considered in all patients who are evaluated for hypoglycemia, this is not the most appropriate next step in management for this patient.

