### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Recommend resources on varicella vaccination and ask the parents about administering the vaccination at the next visit.** - The physician's role in situations in which parents refuse vaccination for their child should be to explore parental concerns, provide the parents with reliable information about the risks and benefits of vaccination, and attempt to correct misinformation so the parents can make an informed decision. The topic should then be revisited at the next visit. If the parents still refuse vaccination after further discussion, the physician must respect the decision and most situations do not require that coercive measure be taken (e.g., reporting the refusal to the public health agency, involving state agencies to override the parents' decision on the premise of medical neglect, informing child protective services). Coercive measures are usually only required if there is a significant risk of serious harm to the child and/or to others (e.g., diseases with very high morbidity and mortality, vaccines targeting epidemic disease).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Respect the parents' decision and defer discussion on varicella vaccination until the patient reaches the age of majority.** - The physician should respect the parents' decision to not vaccinate their child, as they are free to make decisions about their child's medical care unless that decision puts the child at substantial risk of harm. However, the physician should not defer the discussion until the girl reaches the age of majority. Instead, he or she should attempt to convince the parents of the merits of vaccination and take advantage of their ongoing, respectful relationship to address the refused vaccination at subsequent visits.

**B - Inform the parents about the physician's liability for medical negligence and terminate the physician-patient relationship.** - The physician may be concerned about his or her liability for medical negligence based on treating a child who did not receive a recommended vaccine. This can be addressed by documenting the conversation with the parents about the risks and benefits of vaccinating and not vaccinating and the parents' refusal. Physicians should avoid terminating the physician-patient relationship just because parents refuse to vaccinate their child. This decision should be made only if a substantial level of conflict develops and compromises the physician-patient relationship. Also, if the physician terminates the relationship, he or she needs to provide sufficient notice so that another health care provider can be found.

**D - Accept the parents' decision but report the varicella vaccination refusal to the local public health agency.** - Coercive measures like reporting the parents' decision to not vaccinate their child to the local public health agency are usually only justified if that decision poses a significant risk of harm to the child or others. In this case, since it is a varicella immunization, it does not pose a significant risk because the population is highly immunized and the prevalence of the disease is low. Therefore, it is not necessary to report this situation to the public health agency.

**E - Inform child protective services about the potential for child neglect.** - Informing child protective services would not be appropriate for this patient or in most cases of vaccination refusal. The physician should only inform child protective services about the potential for child neglect if the decision to not vaccinate puts the child at substantial risk of harm (e.g., refusing the tetanus vaccine in a child who has a puncture wound that is deep and contaminated), which is not the case here.

