### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - "I will stop the labetalol infusion and put the patient on 15 mg daily oral enalapril."** - This statement is an example of closed-loop communication, a technique that can help prevent communication errors. The nurse reiterates the name and route of the medication to be discontinued and the name, route, dosage, and frequency of the medication to be reinitiated. Doing so allows the physician to verify that the nurse heard the information and understood it correctly. Closed-loop communication is important for preventing communication errors in other situations as well, including during cardiopulmonary resuscitation, during trauma management, and in the operating room.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "Of course. I will discontinue the labetolol infusion and start the patient on oral enalapril, Sir."** - While the nurse has repeated the names and routes of medications back to the physician, there is additional information about the medication that should also be reiterated. A comprehensive response is important to allow the physician to verify that the nurse has heard and understood the information correctly.

**B - "I will put the patient on an oral ACE inhibitor, QD immediately."** - While the nurse has generally referenced the correct medication type and frequency, this response is not specific enough for the physician to verify that the nurse has heard and understood the information correctly. A comprehensive response is important to help prevent communication errors and to allow the sender of the information to verify accuracy.

**C - "I will do it right away."** - This response is ambiguous and does not allow the physician to verify that the nurse heard the information and understood it correctly.

**E - "I will write down the order and change the medications right after the morning rounds."** - This response does not allow the physician to verify that the nurse has heard and understood the medication information correctly. A comprehensive response is important to help prevent communication errors and to allow the sender of information to verify accuracy.

