### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Notify Child Protective Services** - Physicians must notify Child Protective Services (CPS) immediately in cases of suspected child maltreatment. Findings suggestive of child maltreatment include signs of physical abuse, such as bruising, multiple fractures at different stages of healing, and scald burns. The presence of symmetrical, sharply demarcated bullous lesions on this child's arms is highly suggestive of scald burns as a result of deliberate immersion in hot liquid. Accidental burns, such as spill burns resulting from hot liquid being spilled from a height, most often affect the head and neck in an asymmetrical pattern, unlike the symmetrical pattern seen here.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Schedule a follow-up examination for further evaluation** - Scheduling a follow-up examination is not indicated at this time. Instead, ensuring the child's safety is the most appropriate next step in management and should, therefore, take precedence.

**C - Ask both parents to leave the examination room to perform a forensic interview of the child** - Although conducting a forensic interview to obtain further evidence may become necessary in the future, ensuring the child's safety is the most appropriate next step in management and should, therefore, take precedence. While physicians should perform a basic initial interview with verbal children, a forensic interview in a 2-year-old girl should be performed by professionals who have been trained in the field of child maltreatment.

**D - Talk to both parents individually** - The child's skin findings most likely resulted from trauma caused by immersion of her arms in hot liquid. However, both parents deny a recent history of trauma, which should raise suspicion that the patient's history was fabricated by her parents. At this point it is unlikely that talking to both parents individually will bring clarification. Moreover, confronting the parents with doubts about the truthfulness of their statements could lead to them avoiding further physician contact and subsequently place the child at risk of further injury and maltreatment.

**E - Obtain a biopsy specimen of the skin lesions for histopathological examination** - The diagnosis of immersion burns can be made clinically and does not require histopathological examination of the affected skin. Instead, ensuring the patient's safety is the most appropriate next step in management.

