### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Implement the CDSS for a specified time frame** - The PDSA cycle is a model for rapid and continuous QI. In this scenario, the "Plan" phase has been completed, so the most appropriate next step is the "Do" phase, i.e., implementing the CDSS for a specified time frame and collecting both qualitative data (e.g., observations from frontline workers on unanticipated problems) and quantitative data (e.g., number of imaging referrals). In the first PDSA cycle, the plan is often implemented on a small scale to ensure the intervention is appropriately tested (e.g., implementing the CDSS with a cohort of physicians before implementing it throughout the HMO). At the end of the specified time frame, the “Study” phase begins. The collected data is analyzed using run charts and control charts to see if the plan had the expected effect on the QI measure, and conclusions are made. In the “Act” phase, changes to the plan are proposed if the desired effect was not achieved or unanticipated problems occurred. If the plan achieved the desired effect, preparations are made for implementation on a larger scale. The cycle is then repeated. If needed, multiple PDSA cycles (PDSA ramps), each of which tests a different plan, can be run in parallel. For a new or significantly altered plan, prospective QI tools (e.g., failure modes and effects analysis) can be used before implementing the plan.

The precursor of the PDSA cycle is the PDCA model, which is still preferred in some settings and primarily focuses on testing currently running processes to ensure compliance and/or reliability. The letter "C" refers to the "Check" phase, in which the intervention is evaluated and expected results and actual results are compared to see whether the process is going as planned.

Image File: 1635-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f3e398e5c9a3.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Obtain informed consent from patients presenting with low back pain** - It is not necessary to obtain informed consent before implementing the “Plan” phase of a PDSA cycle so long as the proposed plan does not deviate from the accepted standard of care. Avoiding unnecessary imaging and workup and the use of evidence-based clinical decision rules to assist in risk assessment are part of the standard of care. Physicians need to obtain informed consent before performing diagnostic procedures but do not need to obtain informed consent in order to use a validated CDSS as a decision-making guide.

**B - Prepare a backup plan to decrease the number of imaging referrals** - The need for a backup plan (contingency) for QI is guided by the Pareto principle: A backup plan is indicated if the initial plan achieves at least 80% of a predicted QI measure and then fails to achieve significant further improvements. A backup plan should not be prepared or implemented prematurely because doing so can lead to wasteful resource utilization and increase the risk of unnecessarily abandoning the first plan. In this scenario, the effect of the CDSS should be measured and analyzed before preparing a backup plan.

Image File: 1635-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_608bae162791a.jpg

**D - Establish control limits for the number of imaging referrals** - Control limits, which are determined using control charts, can only be established once approximately 15–20 data points are available. In this scenario, there is currently not enough data to establish control limits.

Image File: 1635-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6089769c67018.jpg

**E - Modify the CDSS to remove unanticipated failure modes** - Modifying the CDSS or its implementation strategy to solve unanticipated failure modes is a part of the "Act" phase of the PDSA cycle. Certain failure modes can be anticipated during a failure modes and effects analysis, which was performed in this scenario as a part of the “Plan” phase, but unanticipated failure modes can only be identified following the “Do” and “Study” phases of the PDSA cycle.

