### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Computerized provider order entry** - Paper-based systems, in which medication orders are handwritten, are prone to transcribing errors, which can result in the recipient of the order not being able to properly read and interpret the prescription. In this case, as the physician determined that the patient received ten times the prescribed dose, the transcribing error was most likely due to the misinterpretation of a trailing zero after a decimal point. Trailing zeros are part of the Joint Commission's “Do Not Use” list, which provides recommendations on information management. To prevent transcribing errors, most hospitals have adopted computerized provider order entry (CPOE) systems, which also have the advantage of helping to prevent ordering and dispensing errors because they are usually combined with a clinical decision support system. If a CPOE system has not been adopted and the health care facility maintains a paper-based system, the usage of standardized abbreviations/writing styles and having an intermediary (like a clinical pharmacist or a pharmacy technician) read and interpret the prescriptions can also help to prevent transcribing errors.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Medication reconciliation** - Medication reconciliation is a measure used to prevent ordering errors during a transition of care and helps to avoid inconsistencies between the patient's previous medication and the new medication prescribed. In this case, the medication error occurred at the transcribing stage and led to the misinterpretation of a trailing zero, which would not have been prevented by medication reconciliation.

**B - Tall man lettering** - Tall man lettering is a strategy used to prevent dispensing errors related to medications that look or sound alike (e.g., buPROPion vs. busPIRone). In this case, the medication error occurred at the transcribing stage and led to the misinterpretation of a trailing zero, which would not have been prevented by tall man lettering.

**D - Multicompartment medication device** - A multicompartment medication device is recommended for patients in ambulatory settings taking multiple medications to help prevent administration errors and improve medication safety and adherence. In this case, the medication error occurred at the transcribing stage and led to the misinterpretation of a trailing zero, which would not have been prevented by a multicompartment medication device.

**E - Clinical decision support system** - Clinical decision support systems help to prevent ordering errors by generating computerized alerts to possible prescribing errors (e.g., the wrong drug, posology, and/or route of administration) and drug interactions. In this case, the medication error occurred at the transcribing stage and led to the misinterpretation of a trailing zero, which would not have been prevented by a clinical decision support system.

