### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - 2.5** - The odds of a patient with unprovoked seizure having a history of major depressive disorder (i.e., exposure odds) is the ratio of the number of patients with MDD who develop an unprovoked seizure (a = 20) to the number of patients without MDD who developed an unprovoked seizure (c = 16). Similarly, the odds of patients without seizures having a history of MDD is 35 (= b) divided by 70 (= d). The odds ratio of exposure is calculated as: (a/c) / (b/d) = ad/bc = (20*70)/(35*16) = 2.5. Based on this study, the odds of a patient with an unprovoked seizure having a history of MDD is 2.5 times higher when compared to patients without seizures.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - 0.36** - [20/(20 +35)] = 0.36 would represent the risk of unprovoked seizures among patients with MDD if this was a cohort study. However, since case-control studies only sample a subset of all possible disease-free people as controls, the actual incidence of disease and, therefore, also the incidence risk cannot usually be calculated directly. The appropriate statistical measure in a case-control study compares odds, not risks.

**B - 1.95** - [20/(20 +35)] / [16/(16 +70)] = 1.95 would represent the relative risk of seizures among psychiatric inpatients with MDD against those without MDD if this was a cohort study. However, since case-control studies only sample a subset of all possible disease-free people as controls, the actual incidence of disease and, therefore, also the relative risk cannot usually be calculated directly. The appropriate statistical measure in a case-control study compares odds, not risks.

**C - 1.25** - [20/16] = 1.25 is the odds of MDD among patients with unprovoked seizures. While odds are commonly calculated in case-control studies, by only comparing exposure (with MDD) and nonexposure (no MDD) among cases (unprovoked seizures), one does not leverage all of the information provided in this study. The most appropriate statistical measure of association in this study also takes into account controls (no seizures).

**E - 0.17** - [20/(20 +35)] - [16/(16 +70)] = 0.17 would represent the difference between the risks of unprovoked seizures of patients with MDD and without MDD (attributable risk) if this was a cohort study. However, since case-control studies only sample a subset of all possible disease-free people as controls, the actual incidence of disease and, therefore, also the attributable risk cannot usually be calculated. The appropriate way to compare odds, which should be used instead of risks in a case-control study, is through a ratio (division) rather than a difference (subtraction).

