### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - "Can you tell me why you don't want your father to know about the diagnosis?"** - Patient autonomy is one of the four core principles of medical ethics. When a patient's family or friends make a request for nondisclosure, it is critical to understand why the request has been made because this will inform physicians of how best to approach disclosure while respecting cultural differences or other concerns. Understanding the motivation behind such requests may also uncover explicit reasons not to tell the patient (e.g., grounds for invoking therapeutic privilege, patient preference to not know the diagnosis). Furthermore, it promotes rapport and a trusting relationship with the family. In most cases, cognitively intact patients should be informed of the diagnosis so that they can make appropriate medical decisions. Practical approaches to disclosing a sensitive diagnosis include understanding the patient's preference and incremental disclosure (SPIKES protocol).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "I will respect your wish to withhold the diagnosis from your father."** - Patients with decision-making capacity have the right to full disclosure and, therefore, the right to know their diagnosis based on the principle of autonomy. Because there is no evidence to suggest that this patient lacks decision-making capacity, the son does not have the right to make medical decisions for his father.

**B - "I can help you disclose the diagnosis to your father. He has a right to know."** - The physician has a duty to directly disclose a diagnosis to a patient. Transferring this responsibility to a relative of the patient is inappropriate and unprofessional. It can, however, be beneficial to include family members in the discussion to bridge any communication gaps or for emotional support, as long as the patient has consented to the physician disclosing health information to family members.

**D - "As his physician, I cannot withhold any information about your father's health from him."** - Cognitively intact patients have the right to know their diagnosis. However, the son's request for nondisclosure raises concern for cultural or personal considerations that the physician might be unaware of. In addition, disregard for the son's request may hurt any established or potential physician-family relationship that could be beneficial moving forward. Other approaches should be considered before disclosing the diagnosis to the patient.

**E - "I propose a psychiatric consultation to assess your father's mental competence."** - A psychiatric consultation is beneficial to patients with active psychiatric conditions that might undermine or interfere with their decision-making capacity. For patients with a psychiatric history, engaging their primary psychiatrist can help to ascertain their baseline capacity. Although this patient has a history of psychiatric illness, his mental status is currently stable and there is no other evidence to suggest that a psychiatric disorder is impairing his decision-making. A psychiatric consultation at this time would not be appropriate.

