### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - "I am sorry for your loss. I am here to examine your loved one and pronounce his death."** - This statement is the most appropriate way to address the family members of a deceased patient after an expected death. After a self-introduction, the physician should offer condolences with simple empathic statements (e.g., “I am sorry for your loss,” “This is a difficult time”) and clearly state the purpose of the visit. The physician should then invite the family to remain in the room and ask questions. If available, psychological and spiritual support services (e.g., grief counseling, chaplains) should be offered to the family. Subsequently, the death pronouncement process is begun and consists of confirming the patient's identity, examining for responses to tactile stimuli, looking for fixed and dilated pupils, and checking for at least one minute for the absence of each of the following: carotid pulses, chest movement, heart and breath sounds, and recordable blood pressure. The time at which the examination is concluded is the time at which death is confirmed (stated as the time of death). During this examination, the physician should refrain from talking too much in order to allow the family to grieve.

If the patient does not have an advance directive regarding organ or body donation and a forensic autopsy is not indicated, the family should be asked if they wish to have a clinical autopsy. If the family does not wish to have one, the physician can seek permission for organ or body donation if applicable. If a forensic autopsy is indicated, the local death investigation office (e.g., coroner) should be informed, even if the family does not consent. Following the declaration of death, the physician who pronounced the death should enter a death note in the patient's records; further death documentation should be performed by the physician(s) who were responsible for the patient's care.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - "Could you please confirm the identity of the patient for me? I would like to examine him in order to finalize his medical records."** - Confirming the identity of a deceased patient is a part of the process of death pronouncement. However, asking grieving family members to identify a deceased patient should be avoided, e.g., by using the hospital identification tag instead. Moreover, this response conceals the purpose of the physician's visit, i.e., pronouncing death, and is, therefore, inappropriate. Even if the deceased patient's family members have not yet been informed of the death, the physician should always address them in a clear, empathic manner and avoid euphemisms (e.g., “finalize his medical records”).

**C - "I know what you are going through. How have you been coping with this situation so far?"** - Although showing empathy to a deceased patient's family members is appropriate, physicians should avoid overly personalized statements such as “I know what you are going through.” Moreover, the physician should begin by informing the family of the purpose of the visit rather than asking questions. The pronouncement of death is a time for quiet and grieving, and most families do not wish to engage in conversation at this time.

**D - "I have been informed that you were expecting him to pass away soon. Do you have any questions for me at this time?"** - Before pronouncing death in the presence of the patient's family members, it is important to ask them if they have any questions. However, the physician should clearly state the purpose of the visit before inviting the family to ask questions.

**E - "This must be very difficult for you. Could I ask you to step outside the room while I finish the examination?"** - Offering condolences with simple empathic statements such as “This must be very difficult for you” is an appropriate way to address the family members of a deceased patient. However, families should not be asked to leave the room during the death pronouncement but instead given the choice of whether they want to be present.

