### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Isolate patient to a single-occupancy room** - Multidrug-resistant strains of bacteria, such as ESBL, are a greater public health hazard than a typical infection, and thus need stricter infection control measures. In addition to the standard contact precautions and strict hand hygiene, patients should be isolated in single-occupancy rooms.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Require all staff and visitors to wear droplet masks** - Droplet precautions are used for highly contagious diseases that are transmitted through particles of respiratory secretions. These include Neisseria meningitidis, influenza, Bordetella pertussis, and others. ESBL is not transmitted through droplets and therefore droplet precautions are not indicated in this patient.

**B - Transfer patient to a positive pressure room** - Positive pressure rooms can be used for immunocompromised patients. They have a ventilation system that creates positive pressure in the room, allowing air to flow out of and preventing air from being drawn into the room. This is not indicated in this patient as he is not immunocompromised, and it would not help reduce transmission of ESBL.

**C - Require autoclave sterilization of all medical instruments** - Autoclave sterilization of all medical instruments is used in prion diseases, such as CJD, as well as in spore-forming bacteria or fungi. It is not necessary to prevent ESBL transmission.

**E - Transfer patient to a negative pressure room** - Negative pressure rooms are used for highly contagious airborne diseases such as TB, measles, varicella, or smallpox. They have a ventilation system that creates negative pressure in the room, allowing air to flow into and preventing air from flowing out of the room. Moving the patient to a negative pressure room is not necessary to prevent transmission of ESBL.

