### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - "I can prescribe you antibiotics without informing your parents, and I recommend that your partner get tested."** - Laws regarding consent in adolescent health care differ by state, but all states allow minors to consent to the evaluation and management of addiction and care related to sexual behavior (e.g., STIs, contraception, pregnancy); parental consent is not required. This patient does not want his parents to know that he is sexually active or has an STI. Accordingly, the physician is ethically and legally obliged to keep his medical information confidential from his parents (although minors should, in general, be counseled to have open discussions about health with their parents or legal guardians). However, since Neisseria gonorrhoeae infection is a reportable disease, the physician is required to report the case to a public health official. Ideally, all of the patient's sexual partners within the past 60 days should be informed (either by the patient or by the public health official, but not by the physician!), evaluated for gonococcal infection, and treated if positive. Alternatively, the physician could provide expedited partner therapy (EPT), especially if the likelihood of follow-up is low.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "I can prescribe you antibiotics without informing your parents, but they can still legally request records about your diagnosis."** - This patient's information is confidential and should not be shared with his parents unless he gives consent. Informing this patient's parents without his consent would constitute a breach of confidentiality.

**B - "I can prescribe you antibiotics without informing your parents only if you are legally emancipated."** - Laws regarding consent in adolescent health care differ by state, but all states allow minors to consent to the evaluation and management of STIs; legal emancipation is not required.

**C - "I can prescribe you antibiotics without informing your parents, but I am obligated to inform your partner of your diagnosis."** - Laws regarding consent in adolescent health care differ by state, but all states allow minors to consent to the evaluation and management of STIs; parental consent is not required. Furthermore, all individuals who have had sexual contact with patients diagnosed with Neisseria gonorrhea in the 60 days preceding the diagnosis should be evaluated and treated. However, these individuals should be notified via a public health official or by the index patient, not by the physician. In most states, expedited partner therapy for gonococcal infection treatment is allowed to facilitate partner management and prevent further infection.

**D - "I can prescribe you antibiotics only if one of your parents consents."** - Laws regarding consent in adolescent health care differ by state, but all states allow minors to consent to the evaluation and management of STIs. Thus, parental consent is not required. Informing this patient's parents without his consent would constitute a breach of confidentiality.

