### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Notify Adult Protective Services** - Elder abuse, including elder neglect, is frequently perpetrated by someone with power over and responsibility for the patient (e.g., a caregiver or relative, as seen here). In this case, the patient presents with signs of malnourishment, dehydration, and an unexplained pressure ulcer, all of which should raise suspicion for elder neglect. In the US, physicians are legally and ethically obligated to report suspected elder abuse to Adult Protective Services if the patient lives at home or with a relative or to the Long-Term Care Ombudsman programs if the abuse occurred in an institution (e.g., hospice). Apart from investigating complaints, these agencies protect older adults by providing them with social, medical, and legal aid.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Evaluate the patient's eligibility for home hospice care** - This patient is malnourished, has advanced Alzheimer dementia, and is almost completely dependent in all activities of daily living. The onset and progression of feeding difficulties is a hallmark of advanced dementia, which has a prognosis similar to other end-of-life conditions such as metastatic cancer and stage IV heart failure (i.e., life expectancy < 6 months); therefore, this patient may be eligible for home hospice care. However, his history of food poisoning, dehydration, and unexplained pressure ulcer make another step in management more appropriate at this time.

**B - Provide a prescription for necessary medications and discharge the patient** - Physicians should consider requests made by surrogate decision-makers if the patient lacks decision-making capacity, which is the case here. However, this patient's unexplained malnutrition and dehydration require further investigation before he is discharged.

**D - Obtain the patient's approval for discharge** - This patient's Mini-Mental State Examination score suggests he has advanced dementia (i.e., any score below 13/30), which means he most likely lacks decision-making capacity. Therefore, he cannot consent to his own discharge.

**E - Reach out to a healthcare assistance program** - Health care assistance programs, which include Medicare and county-specific programs, are financial aid programs designed to improve healthcare access among low-income individuals. The current state of this elderly patient, who lacks decision-making capacity and is dependent on his daughter for health care, is not the result of a lack of financial resources but neglect; a different step is required in the case of elder neglect.

