### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Involving the patient in the site verification process** - The process of verifying the patient's identity, surgical site, and the surgical procedure should take place before the induction of anesthesia and involve the patient's active participation. For operations in which wrong-site surgery is a concern (e.g., hip surgery), the patient should write the word “YES” on the correct surgical site and “NO” on the corresponding incorrect site with an indelible marker. Wrong-site surgery is a never event and always has to be prevented. Other important measures to prevent never events include documentation, open communication, and time-out, which were followed in this case.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Engaging in interprofessional communication** - Active interprofessional communication, in which disruptive behavior, environmental disturbance, hierarchy, language barriers, and multiple simultaneous conversations are avoided, is an important measure to ensure patient safety. In this case, interprofessional communication was initiated by the circulating nurse and involved active contribution and agreement of all other members of the operating team. A different important safety measure was missed.

**B - Using a permanent marker to mark the procedure site** - Marking the site of the procedure with an indelible marker is an important safety measure in any surgical procedure. In this case, the surgeon did mark a site for the operation, but it was the incorrect site. A different important safety measure was missed.

**C - Conducting a time-out immediately prior to surgery** - In medical practice, a time-out is a break shortly prior to the initiation of a medical procedure, in which all team members confirm the identity of the patient, the procedure, and the site of the procedure. In this case, a time-out was initiated by the circulating nurse, covered all relevant points, involved active communication and agreement of all team members, and was documented. A different important safety measure was missed.

**E - Fostering a culture of safety within the operating team** - A culture of safety provides an environment for health care providers to actively speak up about potential errors and contribute to the development of safety measures within a team. In this case, each individual in the operating team felt comfortable speaking up regardless of their position within the professional hierarchy. A different important safety measure was missed.

**F - Using two separate patient identifiers** - Using at least two distinct identifiers to confirm the identity of a patient before initiating any medical procedure is a crucial safety measure. In this case, the anesthesiologist used the separate identifiers of the patient's name and birth date, thereby fulfilling this requirement. A different important safety measure was missed.

