### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - “I can understand your need for the IUD, but I cannot place it for you due to my religious beliefs. I would be happy to refer you to a colleague who could do it.”** - Physicians and patients may have different moral and/or religious beliefs regarding certain medical practices. Physicians should try to fully understand and address the patient's concerns, but they are not obliged to perform procedures that interfere with or contradict their own beliefs. In this case, the physician is not obliged to provide contraception; however, she should try to find a suitable referral based on the patient's needs.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - “Prescribing any means of contraception is against my religious beliefs, but as a doctor, I am obliged to place the IUD for you.”** - A physician is legally obliged to treat patients in a medical emergency in which failing to provide treatment would endanger the patient's life, but this is not a medical emergency. Based on ethical guidelines for medical practices, a physician is not obliged to violate his or her own deeply held beliefs and moral values.

**B - “I need to discuss this with my pastor before I decide whether to insert an IUD, as this is against my religious beliefs.”** - This response violates the core ethical principle of autonomy, and also would violate the patient's right to privacy (HIPPA). Discussing this patient's medical care with a third party is not indicated.

**D - “I understand your concerns, but I cannot place the IUD for you due to my religious beliefs. I recommend you use condoms instead.** - Under the core ethical principle of autonomy, patients have the right to make informed decisions regarding their care. Given this patient's preference for an IUD for long-term contraception, the physician's attempts to try to persuade her into using a different method are unethical and may be a violation of her medical rights. Physicians should provide sufficient information and education regarding available therapeutic options and this statement is neither educational nor accommodating of the patient's wishes.

**E - “First, I would like to perform an STD panel since you are sexually active.”** - Though screening for sexually transmitted diseases is an important part of sexual health, this response does not adequately address the patient's request to obtain a long-term contraceptive method.

