### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Ask the patient about his concerns and try to address them** - A physician should address a patient's concerns and assess whether or not his or her decision-making capacity is intact. Neither dementia nor a power of attorney automatically restricts autonomy. The legal power of attorney should be included in the discussion, but should only be tasked with making the decision if the patient lacks decision-making capacity.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Consult psychiatry for capacity evaluation** - Any treating physician has the power to assess the decision-making capacity of patients. A psychiatry consult is neither necessary nor required.

**B - Cancel the surgery and allow the patient to leave** - A physician may cancel an elective surgery if the patient does not consent. However, this should only occur after fully ensuring that the surgery is not desired.

**D - Call family members and schedule a family meeting** - Discussion with family members may be helpful to clarify the position of the patient if the power of attorney is not reachable. It is the next step after attempts for clarification with the patient and power of attorney fail.

**E - Perform cognitive screening evaluation** - This patient has a known cognitive impairment with a documented history of advanced dementia. Formal cognitive screening will not provide any additional information that is helpful in managing this patient's surgery.

**F - Sedate the patient and proceed with the surgery** - The sedation of patients without consent violates their autonomy and is therefore reserved for instances when patients pose a threat to themselves or others and alternative options for mitigating the threat have either failed or are unavailable. It can be used to pursue emergent surgeries with the consent of a power of attorney. It is not appropriate management for elective procedures.

