### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Bundled payment** - The arrangement describes a bundled payment model in which a health care organization is compensated a fixed amount based on the expected costs for all services provided for each clinically defined episode of care (e.g., hip replacement, cholecystectomy), irrespective of the ultimate cost. Payment is then distributed to all the health care providers involved in the care of the patient for that specific episode. Although this model incentivizes cost-effective provision of care, it also carries the risk of patients being undertreated because compensation does not rely on the quantity or quality of services provided but on the amount of money spared per episode. For example, physicians may be pressured to prematurely discharge patients from the hospital because the compensation received for each admission does not increase with prolonged duration of hospital stay

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Per diem payment** - In a per diem payment model, a health care organization is compensated a fixed amount per patient and per day of care for a specific care service provided, regardless of the actual costs involved in providing services for any particular patient. This model does not reflect the scenario described here, in which the organization is compensated a fixed amount for the entire clinically defined episode of care. A per diem payment model is often used for the reimbursement of inpatient services and can provide a perverse incentive for prolonging the duration of hospital stay.

**B - Fee-for-service** - In a fee-for-service payment model, health care organizations are compensated for each individual service provided (e.g., individual laboratory tests, imaging studies, and procedures). This model does not reflect the scenario described here, in which the organization receives a fixed amount for each clinically defined episode of care that is then distributed among all the health care providers involved. A fee-for-service payment model can be a perverse incentive against efficiency and risks patients being overtreated because compensation is based on the quantity of services provided.

**C - Capitation** - In a capitation payment model, health care providers receive a set amount of compensation per patient during each payment period, regardless of the actual amount of health care utilized by the patient. This model does not reflect the scenario described here, in which the organization receives a fixed amount for each clinically defined episode of care. Capitation incentivizes health care providers to promote efficient use of health care resources (e.g., cost-effective preventive health care to avoid larger downstream costs) but also carries the risk of patients being undertreated because compensation is not based on the quantity or quality of services provided.

**D - Value-based care (pay-for-performance)** - Value-based care or pay-for-performance (P4P) comprises payment models in which compensation also depends on the quality of care physicians provide. Although P4P uses the fee-for-service system, it includes financial incentives or disincentives that depend on the health care provider's performance, which is assessed through the analysis of metric-driven outcomes, clinical practices, and patient satisfaction. This model does not reflect the scenario described here, in which the organization receives a fixed amount for each clinically defined episode of care, irrespective of the quality of care provided.

