### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Contact the state medical licensing board** - A suspected violation of medical licensing provisions should always be reported to an appropriate authority. A health care provider (HCP) who witnesses such a violation but fails to report it can be held liable for concealment. Suspected incidents of misconduct or incompetence can be reported initially to an oversight authority within the organization (e.g., department chair, chief medical officer, peer review body) if the HCP under suspicion is within the oversight authority's purview. The incident should be reported to the state medical licensing board (SMLB) if the HCP under suspicion is outside the oversight authority's purview (as in this scenario), the incident continues despite initial reporting, or, for any reason, the incident cannot be reported to an oversight authority. Complaints to the SMLB can be filed by anyone (e.g., patients, HCPs, other SMLBs), and, in some states, anonymously. Following a complaint to the SMLB, the licensee against whom the complaint is made receives a formal notification and is asked to make a statement and provide information to clarify the situation. If required, the SMLB can initiate formal hearings and/or initiate disciplinary actions (board orders).

In the case of billing fraud, the appropriate investigatory authority of the insurance provider (e.g., CMS office in cases of Medicaid or Medicare fraud) should also be informed. If the alleged misconduct potentially violates any criminal statutes, law enforcement authorities should also be informed. When a violation of a medical licensing provision is suspected to be due to physician impairment, it is appropriate to first inform the local Physician Health Program (PHP), which is supervised by the SMLB and can make recommendations to the SMLB if required.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Record the incident in the Physician Quality Reporting System** - The Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS) is used to monitor quality metrics of physicians and provides continuous feedback to physicians with the aim of improving the quality and cost-effectiveness of health care. This system is not used to report physician misconduct.

**B - Notify the rehabilitation facility's peer review body** - If a health care provider (HCP) suspected of misconduct is within the purview of the health care organization, the HCP may first be reported to an oversight authority within the organization (e.g., department chair, chief medical officer, peer review body). In this scenario, the owner of the rehabilitation facility, who is outside the purview of any oversight authority at the rehabilitation facility, is suspected of misconduct; a different regulatory authority must be informed.

**D - Disclose the incident to all patients referred by the owner** - Patients who have been victims of self-referrals or billing fraud should be informed once the incident has been investigated and the misconduct has been confirmed. However, a physician who witnesses the suspected misconduct does not have the right to check the records of patients with whom the physician does not have a patient-physician relationship, since this would be a violation of the HIPAA. Instead, the physician should report the incident to an appropriate body with investigatory authority that can determine whether multiple instances of self-referrals or billing fraud occurred.

**E - Report the incident to the local physician health program** - The Physician Health Program (PHP) is responsible for preventing, detecting, and managing physician impairment due to mental health or substance use disorders and conditions that limit the physician's motor skills or cognitive capacity. This physician is suspected of misconduct, not impairment. Therefore, an organization other than the PHP should be informed.

