### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Life expectancy** - To become eligible for hospice care, a patient must have an estimated life expectancy of < 6 months and decide to forgo therapies that have life-prolonging intent. Life expectancy can be assessed with the help of guidelines that measure the decline in clinical status, dependence on assistance, comorbidities, and certain disease-specific criteria (e.g. metastases in patients who have cancer). Patients may be discharged from hospice programs if their estimated life expectancy increases due to an improvement of their medical condition.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Level of pain** - Pain can affect a patient's functional status, qualify of life, and level of distress, all of which may influence a decision to pursue hospice care. However, pain is not a factor that directly affects eligibility for hospice care.

**B - Decision-making capacity** - A patient's decision-making capacity may influence the decision to pursue hospice care, but it is not a factor that affects eligibility for hospice care. This patient is fully able to express his wishes and appears to have decision-making capacity at this time. If they are eligible, patients who do not have decision-making capacity may also be enrolled in hospice care by their legal decision-making proxy.

**C - Availability of family caregivers** - Hospice care can be provided in a private home setting, and the availability of family caregivers may influence the decision to pursue hospice care. However, this factor does not affect eligibility for hospice care.

**E - Lack of a living will** - A living will is a legal document in which individuals describe their wishes regarding their care (e.g., to maintain, withhold, or withdraw life-sustaining treatment) should they become incapacitated. A patient is not required to have a living will to be eligible for hospice care.

