### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - "What is your understanding of the reasons we did bone marrow aspiration and cytogenetic studies?"** - This statement assesses the patient's perception of his situation, which is the second step in delivering serious news according to the SPIKES protocol (P = Perception), after appropriate steps have been taken to set up the interview (= S). Assessing the patient's perception provides an opportunity for clearing up misconceptions and gauging the patient's reaction. It furthermore helps determine the nature and amount of information required to deliver the diagnosis and communicate a management plan.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "I may need to refer you to a blood cancer specialist because of your diagnosis. You may need chemotherapy or radiotherapy, which we are not equipped for.”** - This statement, which is a summary of the management strategy, is an important part of delivering serious news. However, such a statement should only be made after delivering the diagnosis, discussing the prognosis, and addressing the patient's emotions with empathic responses triggered by the news. If the patient's emotions (shock, anger, grief, denial) are not addressed, the patient may become resistant to any information that is provided regarding plan of management.

**B - "Your lab reports show that you have an acute myeloid leukemia"** - This statement very bluntly and, therefore, inappropriately delivers the diagnosis to the patient. Disclosing the diagnosis is an important part of delivering serious news but the diagnosis should be communicated in a step-by-step manner that involves reviewing the examination and diagnostic findings with the patient and ensuring that he/she understands what is being said at each step. Technical terms such as “leukemia” should be explained in a way that the layman understands. Moreover, the diagnosis should only be disclosed after obtaining the patient's invitation to discuss it. Seeking the patient's permission to deliver the diagnosis provides an important clue on how much the patient wants to know. This cue from the patient can also reduce the physician's anxiety at delivering serious news.

**D - "Would you like to know all the details of your diagnosis, or would you prefer I just explain to you what our options are?"** - This statement, which obtains the patient's permission to deliver the diagnosis, is an important part of communicating serious news. However, as an opening statement in the process before the diagnosis has been delivered, it is inappropriate. Such a question should only be asked after the interview has been properly prepared and the patient's perception of his/her situation has been assessed.

**E - "You must be curious and maybe even anxious about the results of your tests."** - This statement addresses the patient's emotions, which is an important part of delivering serious news. However, apart from the inappropriate tone, making such a statement before telling the patient his/her diagnosis/prognosis, would only trigger anxiety and distress.

