### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Testing the new devices in the operating rooms using simulated surgeries** - Testing new devices before implementation (usability testing) under simulated or actual conditions can help identify unanticipated risks that may result in workarounds, which may lead to medical errors. New devices can be evaluated based on whether they meet the users' requirements (design validation) regarding the intended purpose and usability. In the action hierarchy of HFE, this method of error prevention is considered a “stronger action,” meaning that it is more effective in preventing medical errors since it does not rely on human effort for error mitigation compared to “weaker actions” such as training, double checks, warnings, and the introduction of new policies (e.g., checking the alarm volume hourly). Another example of a “stronger action” is the implementation of a forcing function, e.g., a design feature that switches off the electrocautery device if the volume falls below a certain level.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Installing sound insulation in the operating room and replacing noisy surgical equipment with quieter ones** - High levels of noise in operating rooms are a distraction and have been proven to facilitate medical errors. The elimination of distraction is considered an “intermediate-level action” in preventing medical errors according to the action hierarchy of HFE. However, general noise reduction would not have prevented the adverse effects in this case, since the alarm signals of the electrocautery device could still have been turned down even if the general noise level was already decreased.

**B - Placing signs on the new devices that warn staff not to switch off the alarm during surgeries** - Placing warning signs on new devices is an example of visual warning cues, which can prevent medical errors. However, error prevention strategies such as warnings, double checks, training, and the introduction of new policies (e.g., checking the alarm volume hourly) are considered “weaker actions” according to the action hierarchy of HFE, because they rely strongly on human effort for error mitigation.

**C - Providing a demonstration for the surgical staff on correct usage of the new devices** - Providing demonstrations of new devices is an example of training, which can prevent medical errors. However, error prevention strategies such as training, double checks, warnings, and the introduction of new policies (e.g., checking the alarm volume hourly) are considered “weaker actions” according to the action hierarchy of HFE, because they rely strongly on human effort for error mitigation.

**D - Purchasing new device models of the same brand when old device models need to be replaced** - Equipment standardization (e.g., ensuring that all electrocautery devices in the operating room are of the same brand as well as the model) is a “strong action” in the action hierarchy of HFE. However, purchasing new models of the same brand as a replacement for malfunctioning old device models is not an example of standardization since new devices from the same brand may have new features that hospital staff are unaware of. A different strategy is required to errors when devices of a different model or brand are purchased.

