### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Inquire about access to a shelter** - Individuals experiencing IPV are at high risk of health impairment (e.g., injury, preterm birth, death) and should be provided with information about in-house and community resources (e.g., shelters). Risk factors for escalation should be evaluated (e.g., partner being abusive during pregnancy, victim attempting to leave their partner) and a safety plan should be established with the patient before they leave the office. This plan typically includes advising the patient to prepare an emergency kit that contains important items (e.g., documents, money), which should be stored outside the home, defining a place to go to in case of an emergency (e.g., a shelter), setting up an alarm signal for contact persons (e.g., neighbors) to call 911, and advising the patient to avoid areas of increased risk at home in times of escalating violence (e.g., the kitchen, where knives are stored).

Screening for IPV is recommended in all women of reproductive age. If the partner is present during the patient interview, it is important to first separate the patient from the partner before addressing suspected IPV as confrontation in front of the partner can endanger the patient. In most states, IPV must be reported to law enforcement if there is evidence of weapon injury or imminent danger. If there is no such evidence, patient consent is necessary before reporting the case to authorities.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Encourage the patient to leave their partner** - Patients with suspected IPV should generally not be encouraged to leave their partners. Many patients are not ready to leave their partners because of financial or family dependencies, feelings of guilt, or fear of retaliation. Pressuring the patient to leave their partner may weaken the patient-physician relationship. If a patient discloses abuse by a partner, a different action is more appropriate.

**B - Contact Adult Protective Services** - Reporting abuse to Adult Protective Services is mandatory in most states in cases of abuse of vulnerable adults (e.g., disabled individuals, elderly individuals). In cases of IPV affecting adults who are not considered vulnerable, reporting regulations vary between states. If there is evidence or threat of injury from a weapon, law enforcement must be notified in most states. This patient, however, shows no evidence of injury from a weapon. Furthermore, pregnant women have full decision-making capacity and patient consent is required to report cases like this one if there is no evidence of imminent danger. Another step is more appropriate at this time.

**C - Admit the patient involuntarily** - Involuntary admission may become necessary in patients with severe psychiatric disorders who require medical treatment, show signs of grave disability (e.g., inability to self-feed), or are a danger to themself or others. Since this patient shows no evidence of a mental illness that would endanger herself or others, another step is more appropriate at this time.

**E - Revisit the topic of intimate partner violence at the next visit** - Prenatal care provides an opportunity for close follow-up of IPV and for assuring ongoing support by the provider. However, because this patient has already missed several prenatal appointments and had several visits to the emergency department, IPV should be addressed immediately. To best protect the safety of the patient and her unborn child, a different action is more appropriate.

