### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Nonmaleficience** - Nonmaleficence is the medical ethical principle of avoiding patient injury or suffering (i.e., “do no harm”). Most decisions in patient care require weighing the principle of nonmaleficence against the principle of beneficence (i.e., acting in the patient's best interest). In this scenario, the patient has an indication for an emergency appendectomy, and surgical management is in his best interest (principle of beneficence). However, the patient is at risk of serious harm due to physician impairment, and this risk cannot be outweighed by the benefits of having the procedure done by an impaired physician. The operating room staff needs to prevent the surgeon from performing the appendectomy and find a substitute surgeon.

In addition, the Physician Health Program (PHP) should be informed about the incident. The PHP will perform a thorough assessment of the physician and arrange appropriate management and support if an impairment is confirmed. Note that the PHP is not obliged to notify the state medical board if the physician accepts treatment of the impairing condition.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Beneficience** - In medical ethics, beneficence refers to acting in the best interest of the patient (“do good”). Surgical management of appendicitis in this patient is in his best interest. However, the surgeon's intoxicated state impairs the safety of the procedure and puts the patient at risk of harm due to a medical error. While it is the intention of the surgeon to do good, the principle to “do no harm” would be violated if she continued with the procedure in her impaired state.

**B - Justice** - In medical ethics, justice refers to treating patients fairly and equitably, i.e., treatment is determined by the patient's specific medical needs (in contrast to treating all patients the same way). This patient needs an emergency appendectomy and is scheduled for this procedure, so the principle of justice is upheld.

**C - Autonomy** - In medical ethics, autonomy refers to a patient or guardian's right to make decisions about whether or not to undergo treatment. This patient is legally emancipated, retained full decision-making capacities at the time of the diagnosis, and a surgical resident obtained informed consent for the procedure. The principle of patient autonomy is therefore respected.

