### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Inform the patient that romantic relationships with current patients are unethical.** - Romantic relationships with current patients are always unethical and inappropriate. A romantic relationship with a current patient can compromise the physician's objectivity regarding the care of that patient. Such relationships make patients more vulnerable to exploitation. Romantic relationships with former patients are also inappropriate if the physician is using current or past information (i.e., details of emotions expressed in previous interactions with the patient) and/or position of influence from his/her previous professional experience with the former patient. The physician in this question must sever the physician-patient relationship before initiating any romantic relationships with this patient.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Inform the patient that he will go on a date with her because her case is uncomplicated and does not require decision-making on his part.** - This will be inappropriate and unethical. An uncomplicated case would not negate the need for the doctor to make good decisions, and a romantic relationship with a current patient may compromise the objectivity of the physician's decisions in regards to the care of that patient.

**C - Inform the patient that dating her will never be appropriate even once the physician-patient relationship has been terminated.** - Physician-patient relationships may be appropriate once a patient is no longer under the care of the physician, provided that ethical standards are met for such a relationship. The American Medical Association's code of medical ethics recommends a span of 1–2 years between the end of a physician-patient relationship and the initiation of a romantic relationship.

**D - Inform the patient that he will go on a date with her, but that she will have to transfer her care to a different physician.** - It would be considered poor clinical practice to ask a patient to terminate a patient-doctor relationship or transfer this patient to another physician for personal benefit at this time. This patient has an established physician-patient relationship for her post-exposure treatment; transferring her care to another physician without proper timing and documentation can put this physician at risk of patient abandonment.

**E - Inform the patient that he will go on a date with her because she no longer requires his service as a physician.** - This patient still requires at least one more dose of her post-exposure prophylaxis, so this answer would not be true.

