### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Sending protected health information from a private electronic mail address** - Covered entities should only access or transmit electronic protected health information (ePHI) from a system that has technical safeguards to generate audit trails (i.e., access logs to identify all individuals who interact with ePHI) and prevent unauthorized access (e.g., password protection, automatic logoffs, encryption, secure networks). The transmission of PHI to or from a health care provider's personal electronic mail is a severe violation of the HIPAA Security Rule and may even result in the health care provider being charged with data theft because it leaves the PHI vulnerable to third parties. Other examples of HIPAA Security Rule violations include downloading PHI on an unauthorized device and leaving PHI in a place accessible to third parties. These violations are likely to occur when health care providers interact with PHI in an unsecured system (e.g., at home to complete patient notes, at a workstation that is accessible to patients, discussing care with a colleague over texting applications). The HIPAA Security Rule also requires covered entities to implement administrative safeguards (e.g., training personnel about HIPAA provisions) and physical safeguards (e.g., locking cabinets or data servers with PHI, privacy filters for computer screens) to ensure that PHI is generated, stored, accessed, and transmitted securely.

Violations of the HIPAA Privacy Rule include releasing PHI without patient authorization, after the expiry of the authorization time limit, or to unauthorized individuals (e.g., health care providers not involved in the patient's care). The exceptions to the requirement for patient authorization include disclosures for treatment, payment (e.g., claim reimbursement), and health care operations as well as disclosures mandated by law (e.g., notifiable diseases, elder or child abuse, organ or body donation). In these cases, the degree of disclosure must be limited based on the minimum necessary standard.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Charging a patient for copies of their protected health information** - Covered entities are not allowed to follow charging practices like charging per page of PHI, but HIPAA does allow covered entities to charge either a capped value of $6.50 for each copy of an electronic PHI or a value calculated based on rules set by HIPAA for electronic and paper-based PHI.

**B - Hiring a vendor to destroy protected health information outside the hospital premises** - HIPAA requires covered entities to preserve HIPAA-related information (e.g., patient authorization for disclosure, logs of access by covered entities to electronic PHI) for a minimum of 6 years but does not stipulate a period for which PHI needs to be preserved. After the last contact with a patient, state laws specify a period (ranging from 5 to 30 years) that must be observed before the patient's PHI can be destroyed. HIPAA allows covered entities to hire vendors or third-party business associates to destroy electronic or paper-based PHI (e.g., by burning, shredding, magnetization) as well as dispose of the remains outside the hospital as long as the covered entity has a contractual agreement with the third party in which the third party is required to follow HIPAA provisions.

**D - Calling a patient by their full name in the waiting room** - The HIPAA Privacy Rule permits covered entities the incidental disclosure of PHI under the condition that reasonable safeguards and minimum necessary standards are applied. This means that physicians may call out a patient's name in the waiting room or use patient sign-in sheets, even though other patients might accidentally overhear or see the patient's identity, as long as the information disclosed is appropriately limited and information not relevant to identification of the patient (e.g., the medical reason for the patient's visit) is kept confidential.

**E - Providing protected health information required for billing without the patient's consent** - Violations of the HIPAA Privacy Rule include releasing PHI without patient authorization or to unauthorized individuals (e.g., health care providers not involved in the patient's care). However, under HIPAA there are exceptions to the requirement for patient authorization, including disclosure to health insurance providers for payment (e.g., billing, claim reimbursement). In such cases, the disclosure must be limited to the minimum amount necessary to perform the requested task (minimum necessary standard).

