### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Report the colleague to the local Physician Health Program** - Reporting a colleague who is impaired and/or has a potential substance use disorder to the local Physician Health Program (PHP) is the most appropriate initial action by the resident. The PHP is supervised by the state medical board and aims to prevent, detect, and manage disorders that cause impairment in physicians. After the PHP receives a report, which can be submitted anonymously, a thorough assessment of the potentially impaired physician is performed. In case impairment is confirmed, management options are offered; the PHP is not obliged to notify the state medical board about the impaired physician's condition if the physician voluntarily accepts treatment. If the physician refuses treatment, the PHP will report the physician's condition to the state medical board, which may lead to an involuntary referral for treatment and disciplinary actions. After treatment, the PHP monitors the physician with regular assessments and/or laboratory tests for 1–5 years depending on the condition underlying the impairment.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Record the colleague's behavior in the Physician Quality Reporting System** - The Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS) was a widespread health care quality improvement program that was replaced by the Merit-Based Incentive Payment System (MIPS). Both programs require continuous reporting of clinical measures and aim to provide high-quality and cost-effective patient care by reducing medical errors. Neither program is appropriate for reporting an impaired physician.

**B - Notify law enforcement authorities** - Law enforcement authorities should be notified immediately if criminal activity is suspected or when an individual poses a serious and imminent threat to a person or the public. Doing so may also be appropriate in other cases of misconduct by health care professionals when other disciplinary measures have failed. This impaired physician is not suspected of criminal activity at the moment, so notifying law enforcement authorities would not be the most appropriate first step.

**D - Contact the state medical licensing board** - The state medical licensing board should be the first institution contacted in cases of gross misconduct by health care professionals (e.g., sexual harassment of colleagues or patients, inappropriate prescription of controlled substances, fraud). Health care professionals reported to the state medical board may face disciplinary measures and/or have their medical license suspended/revoked. The behavior observed by the resident does not constitute gross misconduct, so it would be more appropriate to first contact another supervisory entity.

**E - Confront the colleague directly about his behavior** - Confronting the colleague directly may lead to a change in his behavior. However, individuals with substance use disorders are often in denial and may be resistant to interventions from colleagues. At this time, it is more appropriate to contact a supervisory entity; doing so will potentially be more beneficial both to patients and to the physician himself.

