### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Point of service** - In a point of service plan, patients require a referral from their primary care physician for specialist care (a feature of health maintenance organizations), but they can see providers outside of the network (a feature of preferred provider organizations). Usually, patients have to pay extra to see providers outside of the network, which is aimed at keeping fixed monthly premiums moderate. The primary care physician still acts as the gatekeeper for access to specialists. Because this patient is self-employed and has a chronic medical condition, the point of service plan would best suit her needs.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Preferred provider organization** - In preferred provider organizations, patients do not need to see a primary care physician before seeing a specialist. Because the insurance covers care delivered by out-of-network providers, monthly rates are very high. Additionally, patients are required to cover out-of-pocket costs for many aspects of care. Because this patient specifically mentioned she would like affordable monthly payments, a preferred provider organization would not be the appropriate recommendation for her.

**B - Medicare** - Medicare is a federal social health care program that is available to all patients who are older than 65 years of age as well as select other groups who may be younger than 65 (e.g., individuals with end-stage renal disease or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis). This patient, however, is not eligible for the program, as she is too young and does not have a qualifying condition. Furthermore, Medicare is a health care program rather than a health insurance plan.

**C - Medicaid** - Medicaid is a federal social health care program that assists individuals with limited financial resources in accessing health care and medical treatment. It is not an insurance plan. This self-employed patient does not mention needing financial assistance to afford health care and is willing to pay for affordable monthly premiums as part of a health insurance plan.

**D - Exclusive provider organization** - In exclusive provider organizations, patients can see specialists without a referral from a primary care doctor. There is no coverage for visiting providers outside of the network. Other than in an emergency, seeing a provider outside of the patient's network means that the patients will have to pay the full cost of care themselves. Although monthly premiums are initially low for healthy patients, medical treatment for a serious illness that might develop later can be very costly.

**F - Health maintenance organization** - In health maintenance organizations, a patient's first contact person is the primary care physician. Patients require a referral from their primary care physician to see a specialist (typically gynecology and obstetrics consultations are an exception to this). Furthermore, the insurance company will only pay to see providers outside of the network in cases of an emergency. Fixed monthly premium rates are low, but there is no option to access providers outside of the network in non-emergency situations.

