### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Checklist** - Use of a standardized checklist, which includes obtaining a KUB x-ray to determine that the tip of the Dobhoff tube is in the correct anatomical position before tube feedings are started, would most likely have prevented this medical error from occurring. Standardization is the development and implementation of standards that apply to various aspects of a process or system in order to improve reliability, efficiency, communication, and safety. Checklists, protocols, guidelines, equipment, and terminology help medical professionals to adhere to standardized procedures.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Two patient identifiers** - Verification of two patient identifiers (e.g., the patient's full name plus date of birth/medical record number) is a method of confirming that a health care professional is working with the correct patient. However, in this case, the error was not due to the procedure being performed on the wrong patient but rather due to lack of confirmation that the Dobhoff tube was in the correct anatomical position.

**B - Closed-loop communication** - Closed-loop communication is the process of the recipient of information letting the sender of information know that the information was heard and repeating back to the sender what was heard (i.e., double-checking) to help ensure that the two participants have the same understanding of what was said. Closed-loop communication can help prevent communication errors. However, in this case, the error was not due to miscommunication between the healthcare personnel, but rather due to lack of confirmation that the Dobhoff tube was in the correct anatomical position.

**D - Mortality and morbidity review** - A mortality and morbidity (M&M) review is a meeting within a hospital in which a department reviews complications and deaths that have occurred within it. The idea behind M&M reviews is to educate the attendants and try to prevent the same error from being repeated. However, to have prevented the error in this case, the same error would have had to occur before within this department and presented at an M&M review, and the person who placed the Dobhoff tube and ordered the tube feedings would have had to attend that conference and understood what led to the error.

**E - Computerized physician order entry** - Computerized physician order entry (CPOE) is the practice of entering instructions (e.g., medication orders) electronically, with the orders sent directly to the receiver. CPOE systems reduce transcription errors that might occur due to poor handwriting, ambiguous abbreviations, or other factors. However, in this case, the error was not due to an order or transcription issue but rather due to lack of confirmation that the Dobhoff tube was in the correct anatomical position.

**F - Fishbone diagram** - A Fishbone diagram can be used to break down and display all potential events that led to an error. However, to have prevented the error in this case, the same error would have had to occur before at this hospital, a fishbone diagram of the events leading to the error would have had to have been created, and the person who placed the Dobhoff tube and ordered the tube feedings would have had to have seen and understood that diagram.

