### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Prescribe medication for the patient without notifying the patient’s parents or the girlfriend’s parents** - Laws regarding consent in adolescent health care differ by state, but all states allow minors to consent to the evaluation and management of sexually-transmitted infections (STIs); parental consent is not required. This patient does not want his parents to know that he is sexually active or has an STI. Accordingly, the physician is ethically and legally obliged to keep his medical information confidential (though minors should, in general, be counseled to have open discussions about health with their parents or legal guardians). However, because this patient has a notifiable disease (Chlamydia trachomatis infection), the physician is required to report the case to a public health official.

Other exceptions to when parental consent is generally not needed for a minor to receive medical care include emergency care, care related to addiction, and care related to sexual behavior (e.g., contraception, pregnancy).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Prescribe medication for the patient and inform the girlfriend’s parents** - Laws regarding consent in adolescent health care differ by state, but all states allow minors to consent to the evaluation and management of sexually-transmitted infections (STIs); parental consent is not required. Thus, informing this patient's girlfriend's parents without his consent is a breach of confidentiality.

**B - Prescribe medication for the patient only if the patient’s parents give consent to treatment** - Laws regarding consent in adolescent health care differ by state, but all states allow minors to consent to the evaluation and management of sexually-transmitted infections (STIs). Thus, informing this patient's parents without his consent is a breach of confidentiality, and their consent to treatment is not needed.

**C - Prescribe medication for the patient and inform both the patient’s parents and the girlfriend’s parents** - Laws regarding consent in adolescent health care differ by state, but all states allow minors to consent to the evaluation and management of sexually-transmitted infections (STIs); parental consent is not required. Thus, informing this patient's parents and his girlfriend's parents without his consent is a breach of confidentiality.

**D - Prescribe medication for the patient only if the patient meets the criteria for legal emancipation** - Laws regarding consent in adolescent health care differ by state, but all states allow minors to consent to the evaluation and management of sexually-transmitted infections (STIs); legal emancipation is not required.

**F - Prescribe medication for the patient and his girlfriend and inform both the patient’s parents and the girlfriend’s parents** - Laws regarding consent in adolescent health care differ by state, but all states allow minors to consent to the evaluation and management of sexually-transmitted infections (STIs); parental consent is not required. Thus, informing this patient's parents and his girlfriend's parents without his consent is a breach of confidentiality. In several states, physicians can also prescribe treatment for certain sexually-transmitted infections for a patient's partner even if the partner has not been evaluated by the physician.

