### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Prescribe a transdermal fentanyl patch** - This patient is in distress due to insufficiently controlled pain, and he has dysphagia. Accordingly, his oral medications should be reduced as much as possible, and a nonoral form of analgesia is the most appropriate next step in management. Fentanyl is a synthetic full opioid agonist with a higher potency than morphine. The transdermal formulation of fentanyl is indicated in the treatment of chronic pain, providing steady analgesia because it diffuses continuously into the blood.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Schedule external beam radiation therapy** - External beam radiation therapy can be used as a palliative treatment modality in patients with localized painful bone metastases, even patients in hospice care. However, this patient has widespread bone metastases, and his insufficient pain control is likely due to inadequate intake of oral pain medication from an inability to swallow pills. Another therapy is more appropriate at this time.

**C - Prescribe diazepam for the evenings** - Diazepam is a long-acting benzodiazepine that can be used for the management of anxiety and restlessness. This patient's restlessness and distress, however, are most likely due to insufficient pain control. In addition, the coadministration of benzodiazepines and opioids increases the risk of severe CNS and respiratory depression.

**D - Prescribe codeine for the evenings** - Codeine is an oral medication used in the management of mild to moderate pain and is a potent cough suppressant. Although this patient has insufficient pain control and a cough, the prescription of additional oral analgesia may exacerbate his dysphagia. In addition, codeine is less effective in patients with liver disease (like this patient with liver metastasis) because it is a prodrug that relies on hepatic metabolism to achieve its analgesic effect.

**E - Have the patient crush his morphine pills and take them with soft foods** - This patient with dysphagia may be experiencing severe pain because of an inadequate intake of oral pain medication due to an inability to swallow pills. Crushing pills and mixing them into foods may facilitate medication adherence. However, this patient has been prescribed extended-release morphine. Extended-release formulation drugs should never be crushed because of the risk of toxicity from dose dumping.

