### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Failed communication** - Failed communication, which is a common cause of medical error, can occur as a result of poor communication between medical personnel, failure to review medical records, failure to adequately communicate with the patient and/or patient's family, and lack of standardized terminology or the use of jargon. In this case, the resident physician who covered the night shift forgot to update the gynecological resident, resulting in new clinical information not being communicated. Secondly, the surgical nurse did not review the patient's medical record, where the note about postpartum tubal ligation was added. Measures to prevent communication-related errors include the implementation of standardized handoffs, the use of standardized medical terminology and abbreviations in documentation, signouts, read-backs, timeouts, a safety culture, flat authority gradients, and teamwork training.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Improper documentation** - Improper documentation (e.g., incomplete entry of clinically relevant information, use of nonstandardized abbreviations) can cause medical errors. Because the resident physician added the patient's request to the electronic chart, improper documentation does not seem to be the cause of error here.

**B - Inadequate patient assessment** - Inadequate patient assessment is a possible source of medical error, especially among physicians who are still in training, like the resident physician here. Nonetheless, there is no evidence that inadequate patient assessment is the cause of error in this case.

**C - Alert fatigue** - Alert fatigue is the desensitization of health care providers to alarms as a result of repeated exposure to false and/or nonactionable alarms. There is no evidence of alert fatigue in this scenario.

**E - Inexperienced nurse** - Inexperienced healthcare personnel is a risk factor for nescient errors. Although the surgical nurse only recently started working at the hospital, there is no evidence that the error was directly related to this nurse having a lack of experience. The error in this scenario was due to the lack of a standardized handoff.

