### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Hydroxychloroquine** - Porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT) results in the accumulation of porphyrins in the liver, skin, and urine, causing chronic skin photosensitivity and discoloration of the urine as seen in this patient. Symptoms may be triggered by exposure to sunlight, smoking, and alcohol intake. Treatment involves avoidance of known triggers and the administration of hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine, which form water-soluble complexes with the porphyrin rings that are then excreted by the kidneys. Phlebotomy is another treatment option for PCT, especially in patients with iron overload or contraindications to hydroxychloroquine (or chloroquine) therapy.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hemin** - Hemin, an iron-containing protein that blocks heme synthesis, is used in the treatment of acute intermittent porphyria (AIP), which can also cause dark-colored urine. Because AIP is associated with marked upregulation of ALA-synthase activity due to decreased activity of porphobilinogen deaminase, inhibition of ALA-synthase via hemin is the treatment of choice. AIP typically manifests with fever, abdominal pain, and neurologic abnormalities, rather than the sun-induced blistering skin lesions seen in this patient. Because hemin contains iron, it would not be indicated for the treatment of PCT, which is typically complicated by iron overload.

**B - Prednisone** - Prednisone may be used for several different infectious and autoimmune disorders, including discoid lupus, which also causes a photosensitive rash. However, the lesions in DLE are raised, erythematous, scaling, and plaque-like, rather than the painless, blistering rash seen here. Furthermore, urine discoloration would be inconsistent with DLE.

**C - Fexofenadine** - Fexofenadine is a second-generation antihistamine that can be used in the treatment of allergic contact dermatitis. In severe cases, allergic contact dermatitis can cause vesicles and serous oozing. However, the associated rash most commonly presents with pruritic eruptions at the site of exposure to an allergen and is not photosensitive. A positive family history and tea-colored urine are also not consistent with contact dermatitis.

**D - Acyclovir** - Acyclovir is used for the treatment of herpes simplex virus (HSV) and varicella-zoster virus (VZV), both of which may manifest with a vesicular rash. However, the rash caused by these pathogens is painful rather than painless, and not photosensitive. Also, HSV and VZV would not cause tea-colored urine.

