### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - "I believe you accidentally put on the wrong gloves."** - Whenever a person witnesses a medical error, they should directly inform the health care provider who committed the error. This should be done politely and without any regard for the workplace hierarchy, interpersonal relationships, or the potential of a career setback. A witness who fails to act is also culpable for the consequences of the error. Early medical error reporting can offer a chance for rectification (e.g., replacing nonsterile gloves with sterile gloves) and prevent a near miss (e.g., break of sterile technique) from becoming an adverse event (e.g., catheter-associated urinary tract infection). Patient safety (nonmaleficence) is the foremost priority; a safety culture fosters the reporting of both active errors (as seen here) and latent errors.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - “I suggest we perform a root cause analysis to make sure this error does not happen again.”** - Analysis of medical errors (e.g., root cause analysis) is in line with good safety culture and necessary to prevent future errors. However, a root cause analysis is performed after a procedure has been completed. Another reaction is more appropriate at this point in time.

**C - “I am really sorry, but I have to report your mistake to the head nurse to ensure transparent communication.”** - It is necessary to report of medical errors (e.g., through an incident reporting system), and doing so is in line with good safety culture. However, reporting the error to the head nurse at this step in the procedure delays the possibility of rectifying the error and increases the risk that a near miss (e.g., break in sterile technique) becomes an adverse event (e.g., catheter-associated urinary tract infection). Furthermore, it is the responsibility of the person who committed the error to report it. It would be more appropriate for the student to give the nurse the chance to self report the error at a later time.

**D - “Let’s go over everything again to make sure we did not forget something before we insert the catheter."** - This statement does not directly address the problem that sterile technique has not been followed, which may convey the assumption that the procedure has not been compromised. Whenever a medical error is witnessed, the witness of the error should speak up. Addressing the error immediately makes rectification possible.

**E - “Do you need any help with the insertion of the catheter?”** - Collaboration across teams is necessary, and it is generally appropriate for the student to offer to help the nurse. However, urinary catheter insertion should be performed using sterile technique, which includes wearing sterile gloves. This nurse just put on nonsterile gloves. Any break in sterile technique jeopardizes patient safety and constitutes a medical error. Another reaction is more appropriate at this stage of the procedure.

