### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Clean intermittent catheterization and routine hand hygiene measures** - While patients with spinal cord injury initially require an indwelling urinary catheter in order to prevent bladder distension due to urine retention, the indwelling catheter should be removed after 3–4 days and substituted with clean intermittent catheterization (CIC). CIC consists of the insertion and removal of a urinary catheter directly after emptying the bladder and needs to be performed at regular intervals (4–6 times a day). CIC can be used in short- and long-term settings and performed by a caregiver or the patient. This technique is associated with fewer CAUTIs than indwelling catheters, prevents complications (e.g., sepsis), and reduces mortality. Routine hand hygiene is crucial and should always be performed before and after CIC to reduce the risk of pathogen transmission.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Suprapubic catheterization and regular bladder irrigation** - Although suprapubic catheterization has some advantages over other catheterization methods (e.g., greater patient satisfaction, prevention of urethral strictures and trauma), it may be associated with a higher risk of urinary tract infection compared to a more appropriate method of bladder management. Additionally, regular bladder irrigation has not been shown to prevent CAUTIs and may actually increase the risk of infection.

**B - Indwelling transurethral catheterization and use of antibacterial lubricants** - Although indwelling transurethral catheters should be used initially for bladder emptying in patients with SCI, they should be replaced by a different catheterization method after 3–4 days to reduce the risk of CAUTIs. Additionally, the use of antibacterial lubricants has not been shown to prevent CAUTIs and may lead to the development of drug-resistant pathogens.

**D - Suprapubic catheterization and prophylactic oral antibiotic therapy** - Although suprapubic catheterization has some advantages over other catheterization methods (e.g., greater patient satisfaction, prevention of urethral strictures and trauma), it may be associated with a higher risk of urinary tract infection compared to a more appropriate method of bladder management. Additionally, oral antimicrobial prophylaxis has not been shown to prevent CAUTIs and may lead to the development of drug-resistant pathogens.

**E - Indwelling transurethral catheterization and periodic catheter changes** - In patients with SCI, indwelling transurethral catheters are used initially for bladder emptying and should be replaced by a different catheterization method after 3–4 days to reduce the risk of CAUTIs. Additionally, periodic changes of an indwelling transurethral catheter have not been shown to prevent CAUTIs. In general, these catheters should only be changed if there is a mechanical issue (e.g., clogging) and a continued need for indwelling catheterization.

**F - Clean intermittent catheterization and regular screening for bacteriuria** - While clean intermittent catheterization is associated with a decreased risk of CAUTIs and is the preferred bladder management strategy in patients with SCI, screening for bacteriuria has not been shown to prevent these infections and is, therefore, not recommended.

