### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Conducting a time-out immediately prior to surgery** - In medical practice, a time-out is a break performed prior to initiating a medical procedure in which the identifications of the patient, procedure, and site of the procedure are confirmed. The time-out is typically initiated by a designated member of the team, such as the circulating nurse, and involves all of the team members (e.g., operating room technicians, principal surgeon, medical students) who are participating in the procedure. The team members are responsible for covering all relevant points through active communication, reaching an agreement, and documenting that the time-out was completed.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Performing surgical site marking in the operating room** - It is generally recommended that surgical site marking be performed in the preoperative area, where there are fewer distractions compared to the operating room. The Joint Commission recommends that the operating surgeon marks the site, though it is acceptable to delegate to another person who will also be present during the procedure (e.g., the surgical intern in this scenario).

**B - Providing the patient with a radiofrequency identification wrist band** - Radiofrequency identification wrist bands can be used to verify a patient's identity and prevent errors caused by patient misidentification (e.g., wrong patient surgery). However, they are not typically used to identify surgical sites and would be unlikely to have prevented this patient's wrong-site surgery.

**C - Avoiding the use of abbreviations in patient records** - The use of nonstandardized abbreviations in documentation should be avoided to minimize errors. However, in this scenario, the procedure was documented as “CEA right” and correctly identified the laterality of the procedure.

**E - Using adhesive tape for surgical site marking** - The Joint Commission recommends making surgical site markings permanent so that they are still visible following surgical preparation (e.g., antiseptic skin preparation and draping). Accordingly, adhesive tape is not recommended because it could easily be rubbed off or transferred to a different site, which could result in wrong-site surgery.

