### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Increase morphine dosage as needed for pain control** - This patient's severe, persistent pain indicates that he is currently not receiving an adequate dosage of morphine. Under close monitoring, a titrated increase in opioid dosage (typically by 25–50% every 24 hours until the desired pain relief is achieved) minimizes the risks of severe side effects (e.g., respiratory depression). For individuals on patient-controlled analgesia, this dosage titration can be achieved by decreasing the duration of the lockout period, increasing the single bolus limit, and/or increasing the daily dose limit of the opioid. In addition, a continuous low-dose infusion of opioids or nonopioid analgesics can be used as an adjuvant for pain relief.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Change morphine to a nonopioid analgesic and add zolpidem for insomnia** - Sleep medications (e.g., zolpidem) are a short-term treatment for primary insomnia. In patients with secondary insomnia (e.g., due to pain, as seen here), an attempt should be made to treat the underlying cause before considering sleep medications. Nonopioid analgesics (NOAs) are not as effective as opioids in providing pain relief (they are on a lower rung of the WHO analgesic ladder). In patients who are already receiving opioids without adequate pain relief, certain NOAs (e.g., ketorolac) can be used as adjuncts but not as a replacement.

**C - Remove the patient-controlled pump immediately to prevent intentional morphine overdose** - Patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) systems, which allow patients to titrate medication based on their level of pain, have a lockout period to prevent the delivery of an inappropriately high dose of analgesic if patients try to administer medication too frequently. Therefore, an intentional morphine overdose is unlikely, and removing PCA would not be effective in the management of this patient's pain.

**D - Continue morphine therapy at the same dosage to avoid respiratory depression** - The dosage of morphine that this patient is currently receiving is insufficient to manage his severe, persistent pain. This patient's shallow but rapid breathing is most likely due to pain rather than opioid-induced respiratory depression, which causes bradypnea. In terminally ill patients, the principle of double effect is followed, and pain relief is prioritized over potential adverse effects from pain medication (e.g., respiratory depression).

**E - Request psychiatric evaluation to assess for suicidal ideation** - Terminally ill patients are at increased risk for suicidal ideation, which is seen here. Although a psychiatric evaluation is necessary in cases of suicidal ideation, adequate pain control takes precedence in a patient who is in severe pain and in a safe environment (e.g., a hospitalized patient).

