### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Conduct interviews with all staff members involved in the patient's care** - Conducting interviews with all staff members involved in the patient's care at the time the sentinel event or never event (in this case, air embolism to the pulmonary artery) occurred is one of the elements of a root cause analysis. The aim of such an analysis is to understand who was affected by the event, what happened (identifying active errors), where it happened, when it happened, and why the event occurred (identifying latent errors). To identify latent errors that may have aligned to cause the adverse event, various factors are considered, such as the physical environment (e.g., the bed was malfunctioning and the patient could not be placed in the Trendelenburg position), team environment (e.g., a technician noticed that one of the catheter connections was detached but did not feel empowered to report her observation), regulatory pressures (e.g., the resident was rushing because he was at risk of exceeding duty hours), and patient-related factors (e.g., he was hypovolemic). Using the Swiss cheese model of error causation, the origins of the adverse event can be uncovered.

A root cause analysis is performed after an event has occurred, and its purpose is to produce recommendations for interventions that prevent similar events occurring in the future.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Examine the central line placement curriculum used for all surgical residents** - At some point during the root cause analysis, it may be appropriate to examine the curriculum used to teach surgical residents about central line placement and removal. However, this would not be the primary approach in a root cause analysis because it prematurely focuses on one possible source of error. Furthermore, a focus on didactic education is not a point of emphasis in systems approaches to medical error, of which root cause analysis is one tool.

**B - Research other cases of catheter-associated venous air embolisms that have occurred nationally** - Researching other cases of catheter-associated venous air embolisms that have occurred nationally may be part of a comprehensive approach to preventing the future occurrence of such an event in this academic medical center as well as other hospitals. This approach, however, would not be a core element of a root cause analysis to identify errors that had led to this specific adverse event.

**D - Review all possible causes of venous air embolism** - Reviewing all possible causes of venous air embolism would be an element of failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA). In practice, FMEA is most useful as a prospective method to prevent future patient harm. Root cause analysis, on the contrary, involves a retrospective review of a specific case of patient harm to uncover information about the event.

**E - Develop a standardized checklist for central venous catheter removal** - The team performing a root cause analysis may ultimately recommend the development of a standardized checklist for central venous catheter removal as an intervention to prevent future adverse events. However, developing a checklist would not uncover information about the errors that led to this patient's death; therefore, it is not a primary approach for a root cause analysis.

