### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Report the death to the local death investigation office** - Deaths that occur under unexplained or possibly unnatural circumstances must by law be reported to a local death investigation office. A coroner or medical examiner will then lead the investigation to determine the cause of death and decide whether a medicolegal autopsy is required or further forensic studies need to be ordered (e.g., toxicology, x-rays, or laboratory tests). While clinical autopsies can only be performed if the next of kin gives consent, medicolegal autopsies are ordered by a legal authority (e.g., the police, a court, a coroner) and can be performed without consent from the next of kin.

While medical examiners are government-appointed physicians (usually pathologists) who are trained in performing autopsies, coroners are elected government officials who do not necessarily have a medical background. There is considerable variation in the qualifications for and functions of these professions from state to state, as well as the authority granted to them.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Seek a court order to override the son's decision** - Under certain circumstances, physicians can obtain a court order to legally override a surrogate's decision if they feel that the decision is not in the patient's or deceased's best interest (e.g., parents who decide against life-saving measures in their nonterminally ill child). However, since forensic autopsies do not require the next of kin's consent, a court order is not necessary to pursue the autopsy.

**B - Notify the hospital's pathologist and proceed with the autopsy** - Unlike clinical autopsies, forensic autopsies can only be performed by forensic pathologists and must be requested by a legal authority. Another course of action needs to be taken in order to pursue the autopsy.

**C - Remove intravenous catheters and initiate routine postmortem care** - During routine in-hospital postmortem care, indwelling intravenous catheters should not be removed because of the risk of fluids leaking out from the venipuncture site; they should only be disconnected from any tubing and capped. Furthermore, routine postmortem care would not be appropriate in this case because a forensic autopsy is required.

**D - Obtain a blood sample and transfer the patient's body to the nearest mortuary** - While it would be appropriate for a forensic specialist to take postmortem blood samples (e.g., for toxicology) in the course of a medicolegal autopsy, this step should not be performed by the physician in the hospital. Furthermore, this patient's cause of death remains unexplained, and transferring the body to a mortuary would not be appropriate at this point.

