### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Explain the procedure's benefits, alternatives, and potential complications** - This patient must understand the benefits, alternatives, and potential complications of undergoing a vasectomy in order to provide informed consent. This conversation should explore the patient's reasons for undergoing permanent sterilization. Although the wife's consent for this procedure is not required, the physician should encourage the patient to discuss his decision with his wife, whose wish to conceive in the near future could factor into the patient's decision.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Insist that the patient returns with his wife to discuss the risks and benefits of the procedure together** - It would be preferable for the patient and his wife to reach a consensus on his decision to undergo a vasectomy, and for both to be aware of the risks and benefits of the procedure. However, it is ultimately the decision of the patient (and not a spouse) to undergo such a procedure.

**C - Refer the patient to a psychotherapist to discuss his reluctance to have children** - It is inappropriate to refer a patient to a psychotherapist to discuss their request to undergo sterilization because the decision to not have children is a personal one and is not pathological. However, it might be helpful for patients to discuss the matter with a skilled counselor if they have expressed distress about their decision.

**D - Call the patient's wife to obtain her consent for the procedure** - Only the patient can provide informed consent for the procedure, and the physician has an ethical and legal obligation to keep the patient's medical information confidential. It is ultimately the decision of the patient (and not a spouse) to undergo such a procedure.

**E - Discourage the patient from undergoing the procedure because his wife wants children** - Although it is reasonable to inquire about the patient's understanding of how the procedure will affect his wife, it is inappropriate to discourage the patient from undergoing the procedure. While it is preferable for a couple to reach a consensus about sterilization procedures, it is ultimately the decision of the patient (and not a spouse) to undergo such a procedure.

