### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Home hospice care** - This patient is malnourished, has advanced Alzheimer dementia, and is almost completely dependent in all activities of daily living. Onset and progression of feeding difficulties is a hallmark of advanced dementia and indicates a poor prognosis. Considering that her life expectancy is likely under 6 months, she qualifies for hospice care. While this patient lacks decision-making capacity at this time, she expressed that she would not want resuscitation or life-saving procedures in the past, so home hospice care is indicated.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Short-term rehabilitation** - Short-term rehabilitation is generally indicated for patients who require rehabilitation and/or further medical care and who no longer require inpatient care (e.g., a patient treated for pneumonia who is weak from hospitalization but whose infection is cured). This patient's Alzheimer disease is severe, chronic, progressive, and incurable, so rehabilitation would not be beneficial.

**B - Prescribe oxycodone** - Opioids (e.g., oxycodone) are indicated to treat pain in patients with terminal illness (e.g., bone pain in a patient with metastatic cancer). While this patient has a terminal illness, there is no evidence that she is in pain, so opioids are not indicated.

**D - Insert feeding tube** - Progressive dysphagia is one of the hallmarks of advanced dementia. Once dementia patients have difficulty feeding, options include either continuing oral intake as tolerated or placement of a feeding tube (e.g., PEG tube). Tube feeding has not shown any long-term benefits for patients with advanced dementia. Also, this patient expressed that she would not want life-sustaining procedures performed.

**E - Inpatient palliative care** - Inpatient palliative care is indicated for patients whose symptoms cannot be adequately controlled outside of the hospital. This patient's symptoms do not require an inpatient level of management.

