### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Follow the patient's orally expressed wishes** - The patient's orally expressed wishes should be respected if the patient has decision-making capacity (i.e., the patient is able to understand the information provided by the physician, determine how facts are relevant to one's situation, use the provided information to make a decision regarding one's care, and express a decision). In this case, the patient has all of these capabilities, and so her wishes should be followed. The surrogate healthcare decision-maker only makes decisions if the patient's decision-making capacity is compromised. Moreover, the patient's current decision is consistent with the decision she made 3 weeks earlier to not have a colostomy. Therefore, no lifesaving measures should be undertaken. The focus of treatment, in this case, should be comfort measures, such as pain control and consideration of a colonic stent.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Follow the eldest daughter's wishes** - The patient's eldest daughter, the medical power of attorney designated by the patient, makes healthcare-related decisions if the patient does not have decision-making capacity. In this situation, however, the patient's decision-making is not compromised. Therefore, it is not appropriate to follow her eldest daughter's wishes at this time.

**B - Ask the patient to reconsider her decision** - The physician should not ask the patient to reconsider her decision because she still has decision-making capacity, even if the patient's wishes are different from the wishes of the medical power of attorney she designated. Furthermore, the patient's current decision is consistent with the decision she made 3 weeks earlier to not have a colostomy. Therefore, the patient's decision should be respected.

**C - Discharge the patient against medical advice** - Discharging the patient against medical advice would not be appropriate, because the patient has not asked to be discharged. Rather, she has requested that lifesaving procedures are avoided. Symptomatic treatment can still be provided in this situation.

**D - Obtain a psychiatric consultation** - Obtaining a psychiatric consultation is appropriate if the patient has symptoms of depression, and it would help to assess whether depression is influencing the patient's decisions. Because there is no indication that this patient is depressed and that depression is affecting her decision to decline lifesaving treatment, there is no need to obtain a psychiatric consultation.

