### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - "We will check your vital signs and do a workup of your chest pain, but we will have to deny further treatment if the cause of your chest pain is not a medical emergency."** - According to the Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA), any hospital with an emergency department is obligated to screen for emergency medical conditions if requested and, if such a condition exists, provide treatment until that condition is stabilized. Failure to diagnose and treat ACS would endanger this patient's life. The EMTALA defines an emergency medical condition as a medical condition that manifests with acute symptoms (including pain and labor contractions) that are sufficiently severe to (i) place the health of the individual or unborn child in serious jeopardy, (ii) seriously impair bodily functions, or (iii) cause serious dysfunction of an organ or body part.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "We will need to set up health insurance coverage for you with the county healthcare assistance program before treating you."** - According to the Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA), any hospital with an emergency department is legally obligated to evaluate and stabilize an acute medical emergency (e.g., ACS), regardless of the patient's health insurance coverage. Once the patient is stabilized, it would be appropriate to assist him in finding additional healthcare coverage (e.g., through a county healthcare assistance program for low-income patients).

**B - "We will treat you to the best of our ability, but we will not be liable in the event of medical negligence."** - According to the Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA), any hospital with an emergency department is legally obligated to evaluate and stabilize an acute medical emergency (e.g., ACS). The hospital and/or treating physician may still be held liable in the event of medical negligence.

**D - "We will help you get transferred to the nearest hospital, but we cannot treat you since you have used up your allotted health care assistance program limit at our hospital."** - According to the Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA), any hospital with an emergency department is legally obligated to evaluate and stabilize an acute medical emergency (e.g., ACS), regardless of the patient's financial limitations. Transferring the patient to another hospital is appropriate if the hospital is not equipped or staffed to properly evaluate and treat a patient's condition.

**E - "We will treat you only if you commit to enrolling in a drug rehabilitation program."** - According to the Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA), any hospital with an emergency department is legally obligated to evaluate and stabilize an acute medical emergency (e.g., ACS), regardless of the patient's willingness to participate in a drug rehabilitation program. Once the patient is stabilized, it is appropriate to assist him in enrolling in such a program.

