### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Copy functionality in documentation** - Documentation errors caused by copying and pasting information in electronic health records (EHRs) are the most likely common source of the medical errors described here. EHRs, which were increasingly adopted following the HITECH Act of 2009, have several advantages (e.g., transparency, high fidelity) but also create the possibility for certain errors. The copy/paste function may result in the entry of incorrect or outdated information or the entry of information into the wrong patient's EHR, and subsequently lead to errors such as incorrect drug dosing, performing tests or treatment on the wrong patient, and billing for services that were never performed. Duplicating information also promotes “note bloat,” the proliferation of lengthy notes that include redundant, nonessential information, which may lead to physicians overlooking important facts. The unchecked transfer of outdated patient data, such as previous vital signs, can lead to the deterioration of patients due to missed changes in their condition.

Forcing functions on workstations such as allowing only one EHR to be open at a time, clipboard clearing, and disabling copy/paste functionality in certain parts of the EHR can prevent these errors. Other measures to improve safety with EHR use include the implementation of standardized protocols (e.g., SAFER guide) and personnel training.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Blame culture at the workplace** - Blame culture refers to a situation in which health care employees are reluctant to report errors due to fear of prosecution or criticism. In this case, the physician openly disclosed the error to the patient and via the hospital's event reporting system, so there is no evidence of blame culture or a lack of psychological safety at the hospital.

**C - Misconduct by a hospital administrator** - Misconduct by a hospital administrator (e.g., the hospital's accountant) could explain the insurance company's accusations of potential insurance fraud. However, the multiple adverse events described here were most likely made by multiple staff members (i.e., physicians, nurses) and therefore can not be attributed to a single hospital administrator.

**D - Medical knowledge deficits among frontline staff** - Medical knowledge deficits among health care providers (HCPs) can lead to nescient errors in diagnosis and treatment, in which HCPs overlook relevant symptoms and examination findings. However, incorrect dose prescriptions and patient misidentification by HCPs are more likely to be caused by slips and lapses (types of skill-based error) than by nescient errors.

**E - Fragmentation of health care services** - Fragmentation of health care services can occur as a result of a lack of coordination between different health care providers within a health care organization. Fragmentation may result in unnecessary repetition of services and thereby a higher cost of care, an increase in the number of readmissions, and gaps or discontinuities in the transition of care (e.g., nonadherence to medication following discharge, increased number of adverse drug events due to a lack of medical reconciliation). The errors that occurred at this organization are better explained by a different underlying cause.

