### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Early removal of catheter** - The most effective measures for the prevention of catheter-associated urinary tract infections (UTIs) are early removal of a urinary catheter when no longer indicated, avoidance of unnecessary catheterization, and sterile technique during catheter placement. In patients undergoing surgery not involving the urinary tract, catheters should be removed as soon as possible (preferably within 24 hours postoperatively). Treatment of UTIs consists of prompt catheter removal and antibiotic therapy.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Urinary antiseptics** - Although it has been shown that urinary antiseptics such as methenamine can have a beneficial effect in the prevention of catheter-associated urinary tract infections, the evidence is limited, and the use of urinary antiseptics is not generally recommended.

**C - Antimicrobial prophylaxis** - Antimicrobial prophylaxis has not been proven to have a beneficial effect in the prevention of catheter-associated urinary tract infections. Furthermore, excessive use of prophylactic antibiotics should be avoided, because it may lead to the development of drug-resistant pathogens. Intravenous antimicrobial prophylaxis administered shortly before surgery, on the other hand, is an effective intervention for the prevention of surgical site infections.

**D - Periurethral care** - Periurethral care with soap and water is considered adequate maintenance care for an indwelling catheter. However, it has not been proven to have a beneficial effect in the prevention of catheter-associated urinary tract infections. Likewise, the use of antiseptics for cleaning the meatal area, either before or after catheter placement, has not been shown to prevent infections and may lead to the development of drug-resistant pathogens.

**E - Bladder irrigation** - Although some recent studies have shown that bladder irrigation with antibiotics, antiseptics, or saline solutions can have a beneficial effect in the prevention of catheter-associated urinary tract infections, this method is generally not recommended because the evidence is limited. Furthermore, antimicrobial bladder irrigation may lead to the development of drug-resistant pathogens.

**F - Daily catheter replacement** - Although there seems to be a temporary reduction in the number of bacteria found in urine following the change of a catheter, daily catheter replacement has not been proven to have a beneficial effect in the prevention of catheter-associated urinary tract infections. Therefore, indwelling catheters should not be replaced routinely as long as the urinary flow appears adequate.

