### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Administer intramuscular and oral antibiotics** - The physician's priority should be to initiate treatment with antibiotics, which is usually done as an outpatient in uncomplicated gonorrhea (typically with ceftriaxone and azithromycin, to cover possible coinfection with Chlamydia trachomatis). Although this patient is a minor, most states do not require parental consent when an adolescent is seeking care related to sexual health (e.g., contraception, pregnancy care, or STIs) or substance abuse.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Order urinary PCR testing in two weeks** - NAAT testing for gonorrhea (both from a urine sample or urethral swab) has high sensitivity (99%) and specificity (96%), and repeat testing is not indicated. A gonococcal culture or repeat NAAT can be obtained if treatment failure or recurrent infection is suspected.

**B - Perform urethral swab culture for antibiotic sensitivities** - Urethral swab cultures can be helpful to assess antibiotic susceptibility but are not recommended on a routine basis when Neisseria gonorrhoeae is suspected. A gonococcal culture can be obtained if NAAT testing is unavailable or if treatment failure is suspected.

**C - Request parental consent prior to prescribing antibiotics** - Requesting parental consent for treatment is not appropriate at this time, as this patient has already requested that his parents not be informed of the diagnosis. In accordance with most state minors' consent laws, minors may consent to STI services without parental permission.

**D - Discuss results with patient's primary care physician** - Sharing confidential medical information among providers should only occur with the patient's consent or if the other provider is immediately involved in the patient's care. In this situation, there is no urgent reason to notify the patient's primary care physician. The physician is required to notify the public health office, as Neisseria gonorrhoeae is a notifiable disease.

