### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Plan, do, study, act cycle** - The plan, do, study, act cycle (PDSA) is a model used to improve healthcare quality; it is the process being used by the infectious disease chairperson. The “Plan” phase consists of defining an area that needs improvement and planning potential interventions to bring about a corrective change (e.g., determining that the incidence of C. difficile infections at the hospital is too high and proposing an initiative to restrict the usage of clindamycin). The “Do” phase consists of testing the intervention (e.g., requiring that an infectious disease fellow approve any prescription of clindamycin for a 2-month period). The “Study” phase consists of assessing the impact of the intervention on quality of healthcare (e.g., reviewing the hospital infection data). The “Act” phase consists of implementing the new intervention if the previous test showed a positive impact on healthcare quality (e.g., implementing the clindamycin restriction long-term) or restarting the cycle if the results were negative or had no significant impact (e.g., including fluoroquinolones in the antibiotic restriction).

Image File: 1721-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f3e398e5c9a3.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - High reliability organization** - High reliability organizations are organizations that have operated for a substantial period of time with outcomes being almost failure-free, despite their work carrying many potential, serious risks. It does not describe the process used by the infectious disease chairperson.

**B - Root cause analysis** - Root cause analysis is a retrospective analysis performed after a medical error has occurred in order to identify the (root) causes of the error and implement measures to prevent a recurrence. The components of this analysis include identifying what medical error happened, determining why it happened, and instituting measures to try to prevent it from happening again. It does not describe the process used by the infectious disease chairperson.

**C - Failure mode and effects analysis** - Failure mode and effects analysis is a prospective analysis to anticipate potential risks and hazards and proactively implement measures to prevent a medical error from occurring. The components of this analysis include identification of what could go wrong and what impact it could have (failure mode), identification of why it could go wrong (failure causes), identification of the outcomes of the potential failures (failure effects), and proactive implementation of corrective measures. It does not describe the process used by the infectious disease chairperson.

**E - Lean process improvement** - Lean process improvement is a model of quality improvement in which the methods used to identify and eliminate factors that use time, energy, and resources without improving patient outcomes are continually evaluated. It does not describe the process used by the infectious disease chairperson.

