### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Perform emergency laparotomy** - Although parental consent is usually required at all times in minors (< 18 years of age in most US states) who are not emancipated before receiving medical care, informed consent does not apply in emergency situations where there is a legal obligation to treat in order to save a child's life. Other cases in which informed consent by the parents is not required are: substance abuse treatment, birth control, prenatal care, and treatment for sexually transmitted diseases.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Get consent from the patient's brother** - This patient's 14-year-old brother is legally a minor (and even if emancipated, not the legal guardian) and cannot consent to nor refuse his brother's medical care.

**B - Get consent from the patient** - As a minor (< 18 years of age in most US states), this patient usually cannot consent to his own medical care. Minors can only consent if they are legally emancipated through military service, marriage, court petition, or if they are seeking care regarding contraception, pregnancy, STIs, or substance abuse. Legal emancipation often requires a minimum age (e.g., 16 years) and requirements vary a lot from state to state.

**C - Obtain a court order for surgery** - Obtaining a court order is the best next step in providing care if a minor's parents are refusing life-saving treatment for a non-emergent but ultimately fatal condition. This patient's case requires a prompt decision regarding immediate management.

**D - Schedule hospital ethics consult** - A hospital ethics committee should be consulted if a patient cannot provide consent and his or her surrogate decision maker is not available or thought to be acting contrary to the patient's preferred decision or against the patient's best interest. In this time-sensitive situation, another approach is indicated.

**F - Delay surgery until parental consent** - Although parental consent is typically required before a minor can undergo a medical procedure or treatment, this time-sensitive situation requires a different management approach.

