### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Speak to the colleague who ordered the initial HIV test** - When a physician is confronted with the possibility that a colleague is responsible for a medical error, the physician must speak to the colleague privately in a nonjudgmental manner and attempt to find out why the error occurred. If the patient no longer has a patient-physician relationship with this individual, the physician should also seek the patient's permission to speak to the colleague (to prevent a HIPAA violation). Medical errors are much more commonly caused by failures in health care systems than by the active error of a health care provider. Moreover, there are a number of patient factors that can cause adverse events (e.g., lack of access to health care due to economic inequities, failure to keep appointments) as well as ethically valid exceptions to full disclosure (e.g., therapeutic privilege, patient refusal to receive information); medical records might be incomplete or contain a misrepresentation of the circumstances for a particular decision. Physician-physician communication in a supportive setting helps to prevent similar incidents from recurring. After confirming the cause of the error, the physician in charge should inform the patient and advocate for changes to rectify the issue.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Request that the patient contact the colleague who ordered the initial HIV test** - If, during this visit, the patient complains about treatment she received from the physician's colleague at her last appointment, then the acting physician could request that she speaks to the colleague directly. In this case, the physician realizes that the patient is unaware of the results of a previous HIV test. A different action is appropriate.

**C - Report the colleague who ordered the initial HIV test to the state medical board** - The physician should report the colleague directly to the state medical board if the colleague is suspected of committing gross misconduct (e.g., billing fraud, bullying, sexual harassment). At this point, this action is inappropriate.

**D - Disclose to the patient that a colleague forgot to follow up on the results of the initial HIV test** - Although it is evident that the patient is not aware of the results of a previous HIV test, it is still unclear if the physician's colleague forgot to follow up on the results. A different action is more appropriate first.

**E - Request the patient's permission to perform an HIV nucleic acid amplification test** - As per CDC guidelines, HIV nucleic acid amplification test is only indicated if the patient has a positive HIV-1/2 combination immunoassay and a subsequently negative or indeterminate HIV-1/HIV-2 antibody differentiation assay (i.e., as the tiebreaker test in a serial testing strategy). The HIV-1/2 combination immunoassay, which is used as the first-line test, has very high sensitivity (≥ 99.8%) and specificity (≥ 99.5%). Therefore, the risk of a false negative or false positive is extremely low if the test is performed correctly. A laboratory error (e.g., mislabeling, specimen mix-up, improper technique, faulty equipment) must be considered if the initial combination immunoassay is positive and a subsequent combination immunoassay is negative. In such a scenario, the laboratories that performed the initial tests must be consulted before performing any additional testing.

