### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Reject both the offer for the trial funding and the conference sponsorship.** - The American Medical Association Code of Medical Ethics states that a physician can accept a gift from industry only if it assists the physician's work and benefits patients. The value of any such gift should not be substantial; pens, notepads, and medical textbooks are examples of acceptable gifts. Consequently, the AMA states that a physician should not accept subsidies from industry for the purpose of underwriting the cost of continuing medical education conferences or professional meetings (e.g., travel, lodging, and registration). Moreover, a pharmaceutical company cannot invite a physician to present at a medical conference. Instead, the institution organizing the conference or meeting may accept commercial support (i.e., from the pharmaceutical company) and independently decide the appropriate use of its funds (e.g., content, presenters, fees, reimbursement).

Physician partnership with pharmaceutical companies has grown exponentially as funding in clinical research activities has expanded. While phase III drug trials are often industry-sponsored, the lead researcher should have complete responsibility for the conduct of the trial, data analysis, and research publication; even unfavorable results from the trial should be reported. The company's stipulations for trial funding jeopardizes the integrity of research. Therefore, the attending physician should not accept the trial funding. Industry-sponsored research is only permissible if there are no conflicts of interest, the institutional review board gives permission, and all sources of funding are duly disclosed.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Reject the trial funding and accept the conference sponsorship but properly disclose the financial support.** - The American Medical Association Code of Medical Ethics states that costs related to travel and accommodation or personal expenses an attending physician incurs related to a conference or meeting should not be paid for by industry. In addition, a pharmaceutical company cannot invite a physician to present at a medical conference. Instead, the institution organizing the conference or meeting may accept commercial support (i.e., from the pharmaceutical company) and independently decide the appropriate use of its funds (e.g., content, presenters, fees, reimbursement).

**B - Accept trial funding and conference sponsorship if the institutional review board gives permission.** - Industry-sponsored research is permissible if there are no conflicts of interest and if the institutional review board gives permission. However, the American Medical Association (AMA) Code of Medical Ethics states that physicians should have complete autonomy over the presentation and publication of the results. This company's stipulations for trial funding jeopardizes the integrity of research. In addition, the AMA Code of Medical Ethics states that reimbursement for travel, accommodation, or other costs an attending physician incurs at a conference or meeting should not be paid for by industry. In addition, a pharmaceutical company cannot invite a physician to present at a medical conference. Instead, the institution organizing the conference or meeting may accept commercial support (i.e., from the pharmaceutical company) and independently decide the appropriate use of its funds (e.g., content, presenters, fees, reimbursement). Therefore, the attending physician should accept neither the trial funding nor the conference sponsorship regardless of the institutional review board's decision.

**C - Accept the trial funding and reject the conference sponsorship.** - The American Medical Association (AMA) Code of Medical Ethics states that physicians should have complete autonomy over the presentation and publication of results following a clinical trial. This company's stipulations for trial funding would jeopardize the integrity of a potential research study.

**E - To avoid a potential conflict of interest, recommend that a senior resident attend the conference and lead the trial.** - The American Medical Association Code of Medical Ethics permits industry to provide funds (e.g., grants) to academic/training institutions in order to help medical students, residents, and fellows attend an important medical conference. However, to avoid any conflict of interest, the training institution (not an attending physician) where trainees are attending medical school or completing their residency or fellowship must independently select the recipients. In addition, financial assistance should not be given directly from the industry to the attendees. Moreover, a licensed physician must lead a drug trial; it would be inappropriate for a senior resident, who has not yet completed training, to lead a drug trial.

