### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Decision-making capacity** - Determination of a patient's decision-making capacity requires the patient's thought process to demonstrate 1.) understanding, 2) appreciation, 3) clear reasoning through new information, and 4) the ability to use the information to make a choice. While this patient has articulated a choice, she cannot recall key information presented to her, which suggests that she does not understand the procedure to which she is consenting and therefore currently lacks decision-making capacity.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Therapeutic privilege** - A physician may, in rare circumstances, exercise therapeutic privilege if providing information poses a severe psychological threat to the patient. This patient has already been presented with all of the relevant information and does not appear to be in psychological distress; therefore, there is no evidence that this situation requires therapeutic privilege or that it has been compromised in this case.

**B - Patient autonomy** - Patient autonomy refers to the obligation of physicians to respect patients as individuals and respect their decisions, even if in conflict with the physician's recommendation. There is no information provided in this scenario suggesting that the physician does not respect this patient's autonomy.

**D - Information disclosure** - In order to obtain informed consent, a physician must discuss pertinent information with the patient. In this case, the physician has disclosed all pertinent information about the experimental therapy, including the risks and benefits.

**E - Patient competence** - Competence is the legal ability of the patient to direct her own care as determined by a court. This patient is discussing her care with a physician, who is unable to determine legal competence. Moreover, failure to understand or appreciate a specific procedure is not sufficient to consider a patient incompetent. Assessing competence requires more information about a patient's ability to undertake other activities of daily living (e.g., grooming, financial decision-making, mobility), which are not discussed here.

