### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - "Let's talk about what makes it difficult for you to take your medications."** - Assessment of patients who do not adhere to treatment should use open-ended language that does not make assumptions about the reasons for nonadherence. This statement invites the patient to identify challenges to taking medication, opens the conversation for discussion about barriers to adherence, and builds the therapeutic alliance, which can increase adherence in the future. Further discussion should help determine the patient's willingness to change her behavior.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - "I would like to check whether the virus has become resistant to your drugs."** - Drug resistance can lead to increased RNA viral load in patients undergoing treatment for HIV infection. However, this patient has identified that she misses doses of her medications, and her nonadherence should be addressed.

**C - "Are you aware that it is essential to take your medications every day?"** - Though it is important that patients understand why and how to take medications, this response is a closed-ended question that does not invite the patient to identify underlying reasons for medication nonadherence.

**D - "You should know that skipping doses will make your HIV harder to treat."** - Although true, this response makes no attempt to ask the patient about the underlying reasons for medication nonadherence. Additionally, this statement makes the assumption that the patient does not understand the consequences of nonadherence.

**E - "The social worker can help subsidize next month's medications."** - This response makes the assumption that the patient is nonadherent because of the cost of medications and makes no attempt to ask the patient about the underlying reasons for medication nonadherence.

**F - "We should go over the instructions on how to take your medications again."** - This response makes the assumption that the patient does not understand how to take her medications and makes no attempt to ask the patient about the underlying reasons for medication nonadherence.

