### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - "Do you feel safe leaving the emergency department?"** - The initial step in treating patients who report intimate partner violence is to assess the patient's safety and whether they have an emergency plan. This woman acknowledges that her husband is responsible for her injuries; therefore, the physician must ensure that she feels safe leaving the emergency department or the medical premises. The physician should also inform the patient that she can speak with a social worker who can provide additional resources for those experiencing intimate partner violence.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "Do you feel responsible for the physical violence inflicted upon you by your husband?"** - Individuals experiencing intimate partner violence often blame themselves for the physical and/or psychological harm. Although physicians should screen patients for any negative feelings and/or guilt when dealing with intimate partner violence, this is not the most appropriate immediate response to a patient who has reported physical harm by a partner.

**B - "May I add some information about local domestic violence agencies to your discharge records?"** - Physicians should inform patients who have experienced intimate partner violence about local domestic violence agencies. However, this information should not be included with discharge records because other people (including the patient's partner) might gain access to it.

**D - “Are you aware that going back home with your husband would make him think that you are willing to tolerate his behavior?”** - It is important to maintain a nonjudgmental and empathic tone when treating patients who have experienced intimate partner violence. This response from the physician is an assumption, and physicians should avoid making comments that are not founded on evidence. Moreover, physicians should avoid statements that could make their patients think they are responsible for their partner's behavior.

**E - "Don't you think you should report this incident to the police?"** - The physician should offer assistance to this patient without pressuring her to take any actions if this is not what she wants to do. It is important to maintain a nonjudgmental and empathic tone when treating patients who have experienced intimate partner violence. In addition, physicians do not have an obligation to report intimate partner violence experienced by their patient to the police.

**F - "How often has your husband physically hurt you in the past?"** - Although it may be important to ask patients about the frequency of physical abuse when dealing with intimate partner violence, this is not the most appropriate immediate response to a patient who has reported physical harm by a partner.

**G - “May I ask your husband to join us so we can talk about this matter together?”** - Direct confrontation of a partner accused of intimate partner violence is not recommended because it might instigate additional violence or retaliation towards the patient. Furthermore, this approach could jeopardize the doctor-patient relationship and cause the patient to become reluctant to disclose any additional violence in the future.

