### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - "I cannot lie to your son about the nature of the test. Why do you think your son is lying about the drug use?"** - Physicians are legally and ethically obliged to tell their patients the truth. Lying to a patient will likely damage the physician-patient relationship and possibly impede future care. Moreover, parental consent for medical care of an unemancipated minor is not required in matters of sex (e.g., contraception, pregnancy care except for abortion in most states, STIs) or addiction care; in these instances, minors can receive care without their parent's knowledge or consent. This patient's physical and mental examinations provide no evidence of compromised decision-making capacity, indicating that he is able to provide informed consent for his own medical care. In the case presented here, the physician should acknowledge the mother's concerns, investigate the underlying reasons for her request by asking open-ended questions, and explain the limitations of drug testing (e.g., false positives, false negatives). If the physician concludes that a drug screening test is appropriate, the next step would be to meet privately with the patient and seek his consent. Minors should also be encouraged to discuss their issues with their parents.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - "We can perform this test only if you as a parent sign a liability waiver."** - There is no liability waiver applicable for the scenario presented in this case.

**B - "I understand your concern and will schedule the test for our next appointment."** - Empathetic communication with a patient and/or their family promotes a trusting relationship, which can ultimately improve the care of the patient. However, physicians are legally and ethically obliged to tell their patients the truth, and deceiving the patient would be inappropriate.

**C - "I do not think your son is using drugs, since his examination showed no abnormalities."** - This response is prematurely dismissive of the parent's concerns and does not allow for investigation of the underlying reason for her concerns. Moreover, a normal physical and mental examination cannot rule out substance use disorders.

**E - "I could do this, but I think it would be better if you discussed your concerns with your son first."** - Encouraging parents to openly discuss their concerns with their children (and vice versa) is always recommended. However, physicians are legally and ethically obliged to tell their patients the truth, and deceiving the patient would be inappropriate.

