### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Distributive injustice** - Distributive injustice, a result of inequitable access to care, is a barrier to high-quality health care. Patients with limited English proficiency are at high risk of experiencing distributive injustice, which can cause patient-physician discordance and medication nonadherence, as seen here. Allowing for reimbursement of professional medical interpreter services facilitates equitable access to care, which contributes to the correction of distributive injustice.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Information bias** - Information bias is a systemic research error caused by inconsistencies in measurement and/or classification between sample groups. This bias can be corrected by using standardized data collection techniques. Information bias is not a barrier to high-quality health care in this scenario, and it cannot be addressed by allowing for reimbursement of professional medical interpreter services.

**C - Health illiteracy** - Health illiteracy, the inability to independently find, comprehend, and use information to make good health care decisions, is a barrier to high-quality health care. In the US, limited English proficiency (LEP) is a risk factor for health illiteracy predominantly because much of the healthcare information is disseminated in English. However, patients of all ages, ethnicities, languages, cultures, incomes, and educational levels can be affected by health illiteracy; a patient with LEP may also have a high level of health literacy in their native language. The use of professional medical interpreter services helps patients with LEP to comprehend information provided by health care providers, but it does not help patients to independently find, comprehend, and use information to make good health care decisions. Using visual cues and simplifying information (e.g., avoiding technical medical jargon) in public health messaging are effective interventions to improve health literacy.

**D - Identity devaluation** - Identity devaluation (i.e., relational injustice) is a barrier to high-quality health care. Patients with limited English proficiency may experience identity devaluation due to incorrect assumptions by caregivers (e.g., about the patient's intelligence) or broader cultural incongruities. Identity devaluation can be corrected by systemic changes that increase intercultural understanding, such as hiring more bilingual physicians. Allowing for reimbursement of professional medical interpreter services does not increase intercultural understanding per se because it does not improve health care providers' intercultural competence.

**E - Availability heuristic** - The availability heuristic, a type of cognitive bias, is the tendency to consider past events perceived as significant or readily recalled information as more representative of the truth than events perceived as insignificant or information that comes to mind less promptly. Availability heuristics can be a barrier to high-quality health care because they result in diagnostic errors by health care providers and in medication nonadherence by patients. The availability heuristic is unrelated to a patient's English proficiency, and allowing for reimbursement of professional medical interpreter services will not address this cognitive bias.

