### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Encourage the patient to talk to her parents about her pregnancy.** - State laws differ regarding the need for parental consent in cases that involve requests for an abortion by an unemancipated minor who becomes pregnant following consensual sex as is the case here; approx. one-third of states do not require parental consent while the remaining states require parental notification and/or consent. The best initial course of action by the physician regardless of the state is to encourage (but not force) healthy communication between the minor and her parents about the pregnancy. A physician must remain objective and empower the patient to make an informed decision without swaying their decision either for or against abortion based on personal experiences or beliefs. A doctor who does not wish to perform abortions out of moral or religious convictions (conscientious objection) should refer the patient to another physician who will perform the procedure.

In the states that require parental consent, a procedure called judicial bypass allows unemancipated minors to receive court approval for the abortion when parental consent cannot be obtained. In all states, parental consent is not required for abortions in emancipated minors or in the case of pregnancy as a result of rape or incest. Parental consent is also not required for the treatment of sexually transmitted infections or substance abuse, access to birth control, or prenatal care.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Explain that he cannot perform abortions because of personal reasons and request that the patient find a different doctor.** - Physicians can refuse to perform elective procedures that are against their moral or religious beliefs (conscientious objection). The ACOG Committee on Ethics states that in such a scenario, the physician should refer the patient to another doctor who will perform the procedure in a timely manner rather than asking the patient to find one herself.

**B - Inform the patient that she presents past the gestational age limit for legal abortion.** - While the gestational age limit for legal abortion varies from state to state, abortions are permitted until 13 weeks' gestation even in states with strict anti-abortion laws. This patient's pregnancy is at 8 weeks' gestation and therefore meets the age criteria for legal abortion.

**C - Share his personal situation with the patient and encourage her to think about the decision.** - The physician should remain objective and empower the patient to make an informed decision but should not sway her decision either for or against abortion based on personal experiences or beliefs.

**E - Explain to the patient that he is only obligated to perform an abortion if it was a case of rape or incest.** - In the case of pregnancy in a minor as a result of rape or incest, all states permit abortion without the need for parental consent. However, the physician is under no obligation to perform an elective medical abortion. Physicians can refuse to perform elective procedures that are against their moral or religious beliefs (conscientious objection).

