### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Infarction of the bone trabeculae** - Infarction of trabecular bone is characteristic of avascular necrosis, which is most likely due to underlying SCD in this patient and has resulted in gradual onset of constant pain and decreased range of motion. This patient’s radiologic findings (subchondral lucency secondary to microfractures, sclerosis, joint space narrowing) are common in advanced avascular osteonecrosis. Her episodes of hand and foot swelling as a child are typical for dactylitis (due to bone infarction from SCD), which is characterized by a moth-eaten appearance of the bones on x-ray.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Infection of the joint space** - Septic arthritis results from infection (usually bacterial) within a joint space. It is typically monoarticular and acute and classically manifests with the triad of joint pain, restricted range of motion, and fever. This patient's SCD puts her at increased risk of developing septic arthritis. However, the insidious symptom onset without fever, joint swelling, or warmth, as well as her normal leukocyte count, make septic arthritis unlikely.

**B - Crystal deposition within the joint** - Crystal arthropathy (e.g., gout, pseudogout) can manifest with episodic monoarthritis or polyarthritis and is typically very painful. However, crystal arthropathy is also characterized by joint swelling, erythema, and systemic symptoms, none of which are seen in this patient. Also, the onset of crystal arthropathy is usually acute (hours to days), and this patient's imaging is not consistent with this diagnosis.

**C - Loss of bone mineral density** - Osteoporosis refers to a loss of bone mineral density and is asymptomatic. Patients with SCD are at increased risk of developing osteoporosis and subsequent pathologic fractures, which would also manifest with acute pain and radiolucency on x-ray. However, additional x-ray findings include decreased cortical thickness and a loss of bony trabeculae, which are not seen in this patient. In addition, this patient’s progressive pain over the course of months is not consistent with a diagnosis of osteoporosis.

**E - Infection of the bone** - Osteomyelitis is characterized by infection (usually bacterial) of the bone. It typically manifests with progressive pain, tenderness, swelling, and limited range of motion. Systemic symptoms (e.g., fever, night sweats) and elevated inflammatory markers are usually also present. While x-rays are not very sensitive, classic findings include periosteal thickening and soft tissue swelling, which are not seen in this patient.

