### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Oral prednisone** - Treatment with oral prednisone is the most appropriate next step in this patient with warm agglutinin disease. The etiology of this patient's autoimmune hemolytic anemia is likely secondary to his recent cephalosporin intake, which is known to precipitate warm agglutinin disease. Other associated conditions that may precipitate warm agglutinin disease include SLE, immunologic malignancies (e.g., non-Hodgkin lymphoma, CLL), viral infections, and HIV. Initial treatment with glucocorticoid therapy is effective in most patients, but some may require rituximab or splenectomy.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Splenectomy** - Splenectomy is a potential treatment option in patients with autoimmune hemolytic anemia due to warm agglutinin disease. However, splenectomy is an invasive surgical procedure associated with significant risks and is only reserved for refractory cases.

**C - Avoidance of cold exposure** - Cold exposure is a precipitating factor in autoimmune hemolytic anemia due to cold agglutinin disease. Common precipitants of cold agglutinin disease include Mycoplasma and EBV infection, as well as hematologic malignancies. However, cold exposure is not known to trigger warm agglutinin disease, which this patient has.

**D - Plasmapheresis** - Plasmapheresis is used in the management of autoimmune hemolytic anemia due to cold agglutinin disease. However, it is not indicated for warm agglutinin disease and would not benefit this patient.

**E - Intravenous cyclophosphamide** - Intravenous cyclophosphamide is primary used to treat autoimmune hemolytic anemia due to cold agglutinin disease. Occasionally, it is used in refractory cases of warm agglutinin disease when other measures have failed. It would not be appropriate in this patient as first-line therapy.

**F - Intravenous immune globulin** - Intravenous immune globulin may be useful in several autoimmune hematologic conditions, including ITP. However, it is not considered first-line therapy for autoimmune hemolytic anemia and should only be reserved for refractory cases.

**G - Red blood cell transfusion** - Red blood cell transfusions are an appropriate treatment option in patients with autoimmune hemolytic anemia when the anemia is severe (Hb < 7 g/dL). As this patient's hemoglobin is 10.5 g/dL, he does not meet the criteria for a blood transfusion at this time.

