### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Polysaccharide vaccination** - The pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV23) prevents infection with Streptococcus pneumonia, an encapsulated bacteria that is the most common cause of sepsis in children with SCD. Due to recurrent splenic infarction, children with SCD develop functional asplenia at an early age (typically by the age of 4), increasing their risk of infection with encapsulated organisms. The first dose of pneumococcal vaccine is typically given at 24 months of age and the second dose is given 3–5 years later.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Chronic transfusion therapy** - The role of chronic transfusion therapy in patients with SCD is to reduce risk of vaso-occlusive complications (e.g., stroke, acute chest syndrome, priapism, painful crises) by decreasing the concentration of hemoglobin S. Chronic transfusion therapy is recommended for preventing complications related to vaso-occlusion but does not prevent infection.

**C - Folic acid** - Folate deficiency is common in patients with SCD due to ongoing hemolysis and increased folate demand for erythropoiesis. For this reason, folic acid is routinely prescribed to children and adults with SCD. However, folic acid does not prevent infection.

**D - Hydroxyurea** - In patients with SCD, hydroxyurea decreases RBC sickling by increasing the production of fetal hemoglobin (HbF) and reducing the relative concentration of hemoglobin S. Hydroxyurea helps prevent vaso-occlusive complications of SCD and has been shown to increase life expectancy. However, it does not prevent infection.

**E - Low molecular weight heparin** - Patients with SCD are at increased risk of thromboembolism and all adults should be placed on prophylactic anticoagulation (e.g., low molecular weight heparin) if they are admitted to the hospital. However, there is no role for prophylactic anticoagulation outside of the hospital and it would not have prevented this patient's infection.

