### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia** - Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia is a plasma cell dyscrasia characterized by abnormal proliferation of terminally differentiated B cells that produce monoclonal IgM antibodies. Excess production leads to formation of cold agglutinins with hyperviscosity syndrome. Impaired vision and constitutional symptoms (e.g., fatigue, headache) commonly result. As in this patient, hemoglobin and total serum calcium concentrations are typically normal.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Multiple myeloma** - Increased immunoglobulin concentration, rouleaux formation, and features of hyperviscosity syndrome (e.g., headache, worsening vision) can occur in patients with multiple myeloma. However, the excess immunoglobulins found in multiple myeloma are usually IgG or IgA, which do not form pentamers. Furthermore, multiple myeloma usually manifests with hypercalcemia, plasma cells on a peripheral blood smear, and painful lytic bone lesions, which are not present in this patient.

Image File: 179-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5911c03711ffe.jpg

**B - Hyper IgM syndrome** - Elevated concentration of pentameric immunoglobulins (IgM) is seen in patients with hyper IgM syndrome. However, patients with this disorder usually develop features such as failure to thrive and recurrent infections during infancy. Rouleaux formation and features of hyperviscosity syndrome (e.g., headache, worsening vision) would not be expected in this condition. Also, the most common form of hyper IgM syndrome (CD40 ligand deficiency) is an X-linked recessive disorder, so females are not usually affected.

**C - Essential thrombocythemia** - Blurred vision and headache are typical symptoms of essential thrombocythemia. However, a peripheral blood smear would show thrombocytosis with aggregates of platelets rather than rouleaux formation of RBCs or elevated immunoglobulin.

**E - Giant cell arteritis** - Headaches and visual disturbances are common symptoms of giant cell arteritis. Rouleaux formation of RBCs may also be seen due to increase in ESR but elevated immunoglobulin concentration would not be expected.

