### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Multiple myeloma** - Multiple myeloma (MM) is characterized by uncontrolled proliferation and the diffuse infiltration of monoclonal plasma cells in the bone marrow, resulting in activation of osteoclasts and leading to painful, lytic bone lesions and consequent hypercalcemia, as seen in this patient. Bone marrow infiltration by malignant plasma cells also causes suppression of hematopoiesis, which often results in anemia (seen here), leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia. Constitutional symptoms (e.g., fatigue, weight loss) and elevated alkaline phosphatase (indicating increased bone turnover) are also common. The overproduction of immunoglobulin light chains (Bence Jones proteins) and hypercalcemia lead to myeloma kidney, which manifests with increased serum creatinine. Along with symptoms of organ damage (CRAB), a bone marrow biopsy showing ≥ 10% clonal plasma cells confirms the diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Primary hyperparathyroidism** - Primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT) can manifest with bone pain, weight loss, and psychological symptoms (e.g., fatigue, depression), hypercalcemia, and increased alkaline phosphatase, all of which are seen here. Furthermore, hyperparathyroidism can, rarely, cause osteolytic lesions (Brown tumors). However, other typical manifestations of pHPT include nephrolithiasis (e.g., flank pain, hematuria), lack of appetite, and constipation, none of which are seen here. Moreover, anemia is not an expected finding.

**B - Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance** - Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) is typically seen in individuals 45–75 years of age and is characterized by the production of abnormal immunoglobulins. MGUS is not, by definition, associated with any accompanying clinical symptoms or evidence of organ damage. This patient, however, has hypercalcemia, renal involvement, anemia, and bone lesions.

**D - Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia** - Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia can manifest with anemia, constitutional symptoms (fatigue, weight loss), and elevated alkaline phosphatase, all of which are seen in this patient. However, typical manifestations include hyperviscosity syndrome (e.g., vision and hearing loss, headaches, Raynaud phenomenon) and progressive neuropathy, none of which are seen here. Hypercalcemia and bone lesions are not expected findings.

**E - Chondrosarcoma** - Chondrosarcoma typically occurs in individuals > 50 years of age and manifests with lytic bone lesions in the pelvis, bone pain, and hypercalcemia, similar to what is seen here. However, impaired renal function and anemia are not expected findings.

**F - Metastatic renal cell carcinoma** - Metastatic renal cell carcinoma can manifest with constitutional symptoms (e.g., weight loss, fatigue), anemia, bone pain, and hypercalcemia, all of which are seen here. However, this patient lacks typical findings of RCC, such as macroscopic hematuria, flank pain, and/or a palpable renal mass. Moreover, CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis would show a renal mass in addition to the lytic bone lesions.

