### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Mutation of coagulation factor V** - Mutation of coagulation factor V (Factor V Leiden) does not allow activated protein C, a potent anticoagulant, to inhibit the coagulation cascade. This causes a procoagulant state by activation of prothrombin into thrombin (i.e., thrombophilia), which has lead to this patient's DVT.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Antiphospholipid antibodies** - Antiphospholipid syndrome is due to acquired antibodies directed against phospholipids bound to plasma proteins such as lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin, and beta2-glycoprotein I. This interaction leads to aggregation of clotting factors, which result in thrombus formation. Although this patient has a family history of SLE and presents with hypercoagulability, the lack of additional findings, such as malar rash, photosensitivity, and arthritis, make SLE less likely.

**B - Protein S deficiency** - Protein S along with Protein C are natural anticoagulants in the body. When protein C is activated by thrombin, it complexes with protein S to inhibit factor Va and factor VIIIa. Deficiency of protein S can lead to hypercoagulability, but it is a rather rare disease only accounting for ∼ 1%. Thus, it is not the best answer choice.

**C - Loss of plasma antithrombin in urine** - Loss of plasma antithrombin in urine, along with an increase in blood viscosity due to extravasation of fluid from albumin loss in urine, is the pathophysiology of thrombophilia in nephrotic syndrome. However, this patient lacks the typical features of nephrotic syndrome (e.g., edema, weight gain, frothy urine), and instead, she presents with insensitivity to activated protein C, which cannot be explained by nephrotic syndrome.

**D - Elevated coagulation factor VIII levels** - Coagulation factor VIII is part of the intrinsic pathway and is bound to von Willebrand factor. Elevated levels, in combination with factor IXa, activates factor X into factor Xa which results in a hypercoagulable state (i.e., thrombophilia). Although this patient's presentation could be explained by an elevated factor VIII, insensitivity to activated protein C makes another cause more likely.

Image File: 182-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5be993aa2579f.jpg

**E - Elevated levels of homocysteine** - Elevated levels of homocysteine can be seen in patients with mutations in enzymes that metabolize homocysteine (autosomal recessive), vitamin B12 and/or, vitamin B6 deficiency. Hyperhomocysteinemia is considered a risk factor for thrombosis as it alters the function of thrombomodulin, factor VII, and factor V. Excess homocysteine also damage the vasculature leading to decreased endothelial antithrombotic activity. However, this patient has no evidence of anemia due to vitamin B6 or B12 deficiency (fatigue, pallor, tachycardia) or family history of a metabolic disease (enzyme deficiency). Moreover, insensitivity to activated protein C is suggestive of an alternative diagnosis.

**F - Mutation of prothrombin** - The prothrombin mutation (G20210A) is the second most common hereditary cause of hypercoagulability. The mutation leads to increased expression of prothrombin. Prothrombin is activated by factor V to form thrombin, which then activates fibrinogen into fibrin to stabilize blood clots. Since laboratory results revealed insensitivity to activated protein C, another choice is more likely to be the cause of this patient's DVT.

**H - Antithrombin III deficiency** - Antithrombin III deficiency accounts for ∼ 0.1% of inherited cases of hypercoagulability and leads to a procoagulable state because of increased levels of thrombin and factor X. Neither of these factors is mentioned in this patient's laboratory studies.

**I - Deficiency of protein C** - Protein C along with Protein S are natural anticoagulants in the body. When protein C is activated by thrombin, it complexes with protein S to inhibit factor Va and factor VIIIa. Protein C deficiency is a rare disease with a prevalence of < 1%. Moreover, laboratory results in this patient are not consistent with Protein C deficiency.

