### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Thrombocytopenia** - Thrombocytopenia typically presents in later stages of CLL and indicates severely impaired bone marrow function. Patients with thrombocytopenia (< 100,000/mm3), in addition to other findings (i.e., lymphocytosis, lymphadenopathy, hepatomegaly and/or splenomegaly, and anemia), have the worst prognosis among individuals with CLL (median survival time of 19 months).

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Peripheral lymphadenopathy** - In patients with CLL, peripheral lymphadenopathy indicates disease progression, as it shows involvement of lymph nodes following lymphocytosis in the bone marrow and blood. Individuals who present with peripheral lymphadenopathy in addition to lymphocytosis (Rai stage I) are defined as having intermediate risk disease with a median survival time of 101 months.

**B - Splenomegaly** - In patients with CLL, splenomegaly is a characteristic finding and another indication of disease progression. Individuals who present with hepatosplenomegaly in addition to lymphocytosis and peripheral lymphadenopathy (Rai stage II) are defined as having intermediate risk disease with a median survival time of 71 months.

**C - CD20+ expression** - In patients with CLL, B cells commonly express the CD20 antigen as well as CD5, CD19, and/or CD23. However, expression of any one or any combination of antigens does not indicate a poor prognosis.

**E - Lymphocytosis** - In patients with CLL, lymphocytosis is a characteristic finding that is already present in early stages of the disease. Isolated lymphocytosis in individuals with CLL does not indicate a poor prognosis (median survival time of > 150 months).

**F - Smudge cells** - Smudge cells on peripheral blood smear is a characteristic finding in patients with CLL. Although a percentage of > 10% is generally seen as pathognomonic for CLL, it does not indicate a poor prognosis.

