### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Artesunate** - Artesunate is an antimalarial drug used for the treatment of severe falciparum malaria. Its mechanisms of action are not fully understood but it most likely generates reactive oxygen species, which cause oxidative stress and thereby damage malarial proteins. It also inhibits EXP1, a membrane glutathione S-transferase, which in turn decreases the amount of glutathione in plasmodia. Every patient should be screened for G6PD deficiency prior to initiation of therapy because artesunate's mechanism of action increases the risk of hemolytic anemia in G6PD deficiency.

Image File: 187-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e859f2f108cd.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Proguanil** - Proguanil is used for the treatment of chloroquine-resistant, uncomplicated P. falciparum infection and for general malaria prophylaxis. It inhibits dihydrofolate reductase, the enzyme involved in parasite reproduction. However, it is only given in combination with atovaquone (Malarone) and is not used for the treatment of severe malaria.

**B - Primaquine** - Primaquine is an antimalarial thought to generate reactive oxygen species that kill the intrahepatic forms of Plasmodium vivax and Plasmodium ovale. However, it is only effective against the pre-erythrocytic and gametocyte phases of Plasmodium falciparum and therefore is not used in the treatment of severe falciparum malaria.

**C - Mebendazole** - Mebendazole is an orally-administered, broad-spectrum antihelminthic drug that inhibits microtubule synthesis and is used to treat nematode infections, including roundworm, hookworm, whipworm, threadworm, pinworm, and the intestinal form of trichinosis. It is not used in the treatment of malaria.

**D - Chloroquine** - Chloroquine is an antimalarial quinolone derivative that acts by inhibiting heme polymerase activity, which results in accumulation of free heme. Heme buildup is toxic to parasites and to the cell by disrupting membrane function and causing cell lysis. Chloroquine is used in the treatment of certain malaria due to Plasmodium vivax and Plasmodium ovale, and in uncomplicated falciparum malaria with susceptible Plasmodium falciparum. However, resistance among P. falciparum is high and it is not recommended for the treatment of severe falciparum malaria.

**E - Atovaquone** - Atovaquone is used for the treatment of chloroquine-resistant P. falciparum infection and for malaria prophylaxis. It is used in combination with proguanil (Malarone), which inhibits dihydrofolate reductase, the enzyme involved in parasite reproduction. However, atovaquone is not used for the treatment of severe malaria.

**F - Dapsone** - Dapsone is an antifolate antibiotic used in the treatment of chloroquine-resistant malaria but is not used for the treatment of severe malaria. It inhibits folic acid synthesis and causes red blood cell breakdown.

