### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Cocaine** - Cocaine increases sympathetic activity by inhibiting the presynaptic reuptake of norepinephrine. In addition to features of sympathetic overactivity, acute cocaine overdose can also cause hallucinations (including tactile hallucinations such as formication) and paranoid ideation. Acute cocaine overdose is treated with benzodiazepines and alpha-1 blockers (e.g., phenoxybenzamine). In the case of a suspected cocaine overdose, beta-blockers should not be used as first-line therapy because they can lead to unopposed alpha-1 receptor activation and thereby precipitate a hypertensive crisis or myocardial ischemia due to coronary vasospasm. Chronic use of cocaine can cause nasal septal hypertrophy (if used intranasally), periportal hepatitis (if ingested), myocarditis, and/or pulmonary artery hypertension.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Lysergic acid diethylamide** - An overdose of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) can cause hallucinations, anxiety, and, rarely, features of sympathetic overactivity due to the effects of the drug itself or serotonin syndrome. However, the hallucinations associated with LSD are typically visual or auditory, in contrast to this patient's tactile hallucinations.

**B - Phencyclidine** - An overdose of phencyclidine can result in tachycardia, hypertension, and hallucinations. However, patients are characteristically agitated (to the point of being violent) and usually have nystagmus with mid-sized or constricted pupils. Pupillary dilation in a non-agitated patient suggests overdose with a different drug.

**D - Cannabis** - Agitation, tactile hallucinations (e.g., formication), tachycardia, hypertension, and pupillary dilation have been reported following an acute cannabis overdose, but such a presentation is extremely rare. Instead, most patients would present with features such as conjunctival injection, slowed time perception, and hyperphagia. Moreover, most patients with cannabis overdose would have dry mucous membranes, in contrast to this patient with moist mucous membranes.

**E - Scopolamine** - An overdose of scopolamine can result in symptoms of anticholinergic toxidrome such as fever, pupillary dilation, tachycardia, hypertension, and, rarely, hallucinations. However, the skin in patients with anticholinergic toxicity is usually dry and flushed, and the hallucinations associated with scopolamine are typically visual or auditory. A different substance is most likely responsible for this patient's diaphoretic, pale skin and tactile hallucinations.

**F - Oxycodone** - Overdose with an opiate such as oxycodone would result in bradypnea (due to respiratory depression) and miosis, not mydriasis.

