### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Iron supplementation** - Iron supplementation is the treatment of choice in patients with iron deficiency anemia. Cereals do not have a high iron content, and although fortification of cereals has helped reduce nutritional deficiency of iron in the United States, the associated excessive intake of cow's milk also cause iron deficiency as calcium and proteins in cow's milk disrupt iron absorption. The apparent iron deficiency, as confirmed by microcytic anemia (decreased MCV) and increased RDW (secondary to anisocytosis), should elicit further tests to rule out other etiologies than diet in this patient. Decreased serum ferritin, increased serum transferrin, and decreased transferrin saturation would be the expected outcome of iron studies in this patient.

Image File: 190-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60741bbe60505.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Regular blood transfusions** - Regular blood transfusions are a possible treatment option in patient's with major variants of thalassemia, which are characterized by microcytic anemia, as seen here. While fatigue, low energy, and conjunctival pallor are findings typical of any type of anemia, MCV in patients with thalassemia is usually less than 75 μm3. Furthermore, angular cheilitis and koilonychia would not be expected. Beta thalassemia is most commonly seen in people of Mediterranean descent, and alpha thalassemia in those of Asian and African descent.

**B - Fluoxetine** - Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), such as fluoxetine, are the preferred pharmacotherapy in pediatric patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). MDD can manifest with fatigue, low energy, social withdrawal (e.g., playing video games alone), and loss of interest (e.g., in school sports). Despite the presence of these features and a positive family history (MDD in the father), the symptoms described here are not sufficient to make the diagnosis (requires ≥ 5 symptoms of depression, for at least 2 weeks, with at least one of the symptoms being depressed mood or anhedonia). Most importantly, MDD would not explain this patient's anemia.

**C - Methylphenidate** - A declining performance at school may be a sign of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) that is often treated medically with psychostimulants such as methylphenidate. The diagnosis of ADHD can only be made if the symptoms first present before the 12th birthday and have persisted for at least 6 months. This 16-year-old boy has only had symptoms for a few weeks. Furthermore, symptoms must be present in at least two settings (e.g., at school and at home) and include ≥ 6 symptoms of hyperactivity and impulsivity or ≥ 6 symptoms of inattention, which is not the case here.

**D - Vitamin B12 supplementation** - Vitamin B12 supplementation is indicated in patients with vitamin B12 deficiency, which may present with clinical and laboratory findings of anemia (e.g., decreased hemoglobin and hematocrit, fatigue, low energy, and conjunctival pallor) and angular cheilitis, as seen in this patient. A restrictive diet (e.g., mainly cereal) is an important cause of vitamin deficiencies in general. However, vitamin B12 deficiency causes macrocytic anemia (increased MCV), or more specifically, megaloblastic anemia, rather than microcytic anemia.

**F - Succimer** - Succimer is the preferred pharmacotherapy for lead poisoning in pediatric patients. High levels of lead interfere with the hemoglobin synthesis and may result in microcytic anemia. A blood smear would typically show basophilic stippling of erythrocytes and/or ringed sideroblasts (in the case of sideroblastic anemia). Although this patient could have anemia due to lead poisoning, the lack of additional symptoms, such as learning difficulties or developmental delay (due to encephalopathy), Burton's lines, and problems of the GI tract, kidneys, or peripheral nerves (e.g., wrist and foot drop), make the diagnosis unlikely.

Image File: 190-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5911c7d5ea99d.jpg

**G - Allogenic stem cell transplantation** - Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is indicated in conditions that affect the bone marrow, such as aplastic anemia, leukemia, or major variants of thalassemia. Symptoms of anemia are common in aplastic anemia as well as leukemia. However, aplastic anemia is characterized by pancytopenia (anemia, thrombocytopenia, and leukocytopenia) and leukemia typically manifests with anemia, thrombocytopenia, and varying white blood count (either elevated, normal, or decreased), but this patient's platelet and white blood cell counts are normal. Other typical findings of leukemia, such as hepatomegaly and/or splenomegaly (caused by leukemic infiltration), CNS symptoms (caused by CNS involvement), painless lymphadenopathy, and B symptoms, are likewise absent in this patient. Furthermore, beta thalassemia is most commonly seen in people of Mediterranean descent and alpha thalassemia in those of Asian and African descent.

**H - L-thyroxine** - L-thyroxine is the treatment of choice in patients with hypothyroidism. This patient has a positive family history for Hashimoto's thyroiditis and presents with fatigue, which is a typical feature of hypothyroidism. Hypothyroidism is also frequently associated with mild anemia. However, the absence of additional features, such as cold intolerance, dry skin, hair loss, weight gain, constipation, or myopathy, make the diagnosis unlikely.

