### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Factor VIII** - Recurrent episodes of epistaxis and multiple bruises in an otherwise healthy boy, together with a nontraumatic spontaneous hemarthrosis (as indicated by the swollen elbow), are suggestive of hemophilia. Hemophilias A, B, and C (inherited hemophilias) are associated with deficiency in factor VIII, IX, and XI, respectively. Because they affect the intrinsic coagulation pathway, all of these deficiencies manifest with elevated PTT and normal PT, as seen in this patient. Both hemophilia A and B follow an X-linked recessive pattern of inheritance and affect male individuals almost exclusively. Hemophilia A is the most common form (∼ 80% of cases) and is classically associated with deep tissue bleeding (e.g., hemarthrosis, as suggested by this patient's swollen elbow), so factor VIII deficiency is most likely in this patient.

Image File: 192-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d972fcf0397c.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Gp IIb/IIIa** - Gp IIb/IIIa deficiency causes Glanzmann thrombasthenia, an inherited bleeding disorder that prevents platelet aggregation while platelet count remains normal. This condition is characterized by a prolonged bleeding time (due to dysfunctional platelet aggregation) and not only PT (as seen here) but also PTT would be normal because clotting factors are unaffected. Glanzmann thrombasthenia is usually diagnosed in infancy or early childhood, and spontaneous hemarthrosis (as suggested by this patient's swollen elbow) is not a common manifestation.

**B - Factor XI** - Factor XI deficiency is seen in hemophilia C, the rarest form of hemophilia (approx. 1/100,000 individuals in the US). This patient's isolated PTT elevation is consistent with hemophilia C. However, hemophilia C does not typically manifest with spontaneous or deep tissue bleeding (e.g., hemarthrosis), which this patient with a swollen elbow most likely has. Patients with hemophilia C present with multiple bruises and bleeding, typically in the setting of surgery or trauma. In addition, hemophilia C has an increased frequency in individuals of Ashkenazi and Iraqi Jewish ancestry, which is not reported about this patient.

**C - Vitamin K** - Vitamin K deficiency results in decreased serum levels of coagulation factors II, VII, IX, and X, which can lead to signs of bleeding diathesis, similar to what is seen in this patient (recurrent epistaxis, multiple bruises, spontaneous hemarthrosis as suggested by this patient's swollen elbow). Normal platelet count, normal thrombocyte morphology, and a normal bleeding time, as seen in this patient, are consistent with this condition. However, in vitamin K deficiency, all pathways of coagulation are affected, so not only PTT but also PT is typically prolonged. In addition, vitamin K deficiency is usually seen in newborns or due to intake of a vitamin K antagonist (e.g., warfarin), malabsorption syndrome, depletion of gut flora (e.g., following antibiotic administration), or impaired hepatic production (e.g., liver cirrhosis), none of which is seen in this patient.

**E - Von Willebrand Factor** - Von Willebrand factor (vWF) deficiency causes von Willebrand disease (vWD), a common inherited bleeding disorder that impairs platelet function while platelet count remains normal. Severe cases, such as type 3 vWD, may manifest with signs of bleeding similar to those seen in this patient (e.g., recurrent epistaxis, ecchymoses, sometimes hemarthrosis). vWF carries and stabilizes coagulation factor VIII, so significantly reduced vWF levels may result in prolonged PTT, while PT levels remain normal because only the intrinsic pathway of coagulation is affected. However, dysfunctional platelet adherence and activation characteristically result in a prolonged bleeding time, which is not seen in this patient. Moreover, vWD is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, so a family history for bleeding diathesis would be expected as well.

**F - Gp Ib/IX/V** - Gp Ib/IX/V deficiency causes Bernard-Soulier syndrome, an inherited bleeding disorder that inhibits platelet adhesion. This condition is characterized by a prolonged bleeding time, thrombocytopenia, and giant platelets on peripheral blood smear, none of which is seen in this patient. Furthermore, PTT would be normal because clotting factors are unaffected. Finally, deep tissue bleeding, such as spontaneous hemarthrosis (as suggested by this patient's swollen elbow), is not a common manifestation of Bernard-Soulier syndrome.

**G - ADAMTS13** - ADAMTS13 deficiency causes thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), a bleeding disorder due to decreased cleavage of von Willebrand factor (VWF) and subsequent microthrombi formation. Characteristic manifestations of this condition include thrombocytopenia, fever, hemolytic anemia, renal insufficiency, and neurologic impairment (e.g., altered mental status), none of which is seen here. Additionally, patients usually present with petechiae, purpura, or prolonged bleeding after cuts, rather than hemarthrosis (as suggested by this patient's swollen elbow). Finally, spontaneous bleeding usually occurs only at platelet counts < 20,000/mm3, and a blood smear typically shows schistocytes.

