### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Splenic rupture** - Left upper quadrant pain radiating to the left shoulder (Kehr sign), abdominal guarding, and hemorrhagic shock (tachycardia, decreased hemoglobin) after blunt abdominal trauma in a patient with a recent history of infectious mononucleosis (IM) is consistent with splenic rupture. IM is associated with splenomegaly, so affected individuals have an increased risk of splenic rupture and are therefore advised to avoid physical activity for at least 3 weeks after the onset of symptoms. This patient's fall from a horse likely caused splenic rupture, resulting in hemoperitoneum and blood collection in the pouch of Douglas, as seen on this patient's abdominal ultrasound.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Small bowel perforation** - Abdominal pain and guarding, shock, and free intra-abdominal fluid after abdominal trauma raises suspicion for small bowel perforation. However, while penetrating abdominal trauma (e.g., gunshot, knife wound) leads to immediate bowel injury and intestinal leakage, blunt abdominal trauma (e.g., this patient's fall) typically results in an intestinal contusion, which slowly develops into necrosis and intestinal rupture after several days. This patient's acute presentation after a fall makes another diagnosis more likely.

**B - Liver hematoma** - Abdominal pain radiating to the shoulder and abdominal guarding after a fall may raise suspicion for liver hematoma. However, liver hematoma is associated with right upper quadrant pain that radiates to the right shoulder, not left upper quadrant pain radiating to the left shoulder. Moreover, in the absence of liver parenchymal disruption, a liver hematoma is an encapsulated collection of blood and would not present with hemoperitoneum (i.e., blood in the rectovaginal pouch of Douglas).

**C - Pancreatic laceration** - Pancreatic laceration may occur in blunt abdominal trauma (e.g., this patient's fall), causing abdominal pain and guarding. However, pancreatic laceration is associated with right upper quadrant or epigastric pain, not left upper quadrant pain that radiates to the left shoulder. Moreover, because the majority of the pancreas is retroperitoneal (only the tail is intraperitoneal), pancreatic laceration is more likely to manifest with a retroperitoneal or peripancreatic hematoma than with blood in the pouch of Douglas.

**E - Kidney injury** - The kidney may be damaged in blunt abdominal trauma (e.g., this patient's fall), which can manifest with abdominal pain. However, kidney injury is not typically associated with pain that radiates to the left shoulder. Moreover, because the kidney is a retroperitoneal organ, free-fluid collection in the rectovaginal pouch of Douglas would not be expected in the absence of penetrating trauma, because the posterior border of the pouch is the peritoneum. Furthermore, kidney injury is typically associated with hematuria, which is not seen here.

