### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Oral prednisone therapy** - In patients with anemia of chronic disease, long-standing inflammation leads to reduced uptake and release of iron in the reticuloendothelial system, reduced intestinal iron absorption, and decreased EPO levels, all of which is mediated by cytokines such as hepcidin. The end result is reduced erythrocyte synthesis and survival. First-line treatment in patients with anemia of chronic disease is the treatment of the underlying condition. In a patient with Crohn disease who is symptomatic despite therapy with 5-ASA and topical steroids, the initiation of systemic glucocorticoids (i.e., oral prednisone therapy) would be indicated.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Subcutaneous erythropoietin injection** - Subcutaneous erythropoietin injections may be used in severe cases of anemia of chronic disease. However, they would only be used in this patient if she failed to respond to first-line measures.

**C - Red blood cell transfusion** - Red blood cell transfusion is generally indicated in patients with a hemoglobin level below 7 g/dL or in patients who are actively hemorrhaging. A higher threshold of 8 g/dL is sometimes used in patients with comorbidities such as coronary artery disease, which this patient does not have. Considering that this patient is hemodynamically stable and her hemoglobin level is 10.5 g/dL, a blood transfusion would not be recommended.

**D - Intravenous metronidazole therapy** - Intravenous metronidazole therapy is used in patients with Crohn disease who have evidence of abscess or active perianal disease with concurrent infection. In a patient with no fever, localized tenderness, or guarding, metronidazole therapy would not be indicated.

**E - Oral vitamin B12 supplementation** - Vitamin B12 supplementation would be indicated for vitamin B12 deficiency, which is commonly seen in patients with Crohn disease due to impaired intestinal absorption. However, this patient's normocytic anemia is not consistent with vitamin B12 deficiency, which usually manifests with macrocytic anemia. Furthermore, oral vitamin B12 would not be helpful in a patient with impaired intestinal absorption.

**F - Intravenous iron supplementation** - Iron supplementation is recommended for patients with evidence of iron deficiency anemia. While iron deficiency can also manifest with normocytic anemia in the early stages, an elevated TIBC would be expected with iron deficiency. Administration of iron would not address this patient's anemia.

