### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Deficient glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase** - Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency (G6PD) results in impaired production of NADPH. Impaired NADPH production, in turn, causes impaired regeneration of reduced glutathione, an antioxidant that protects the erythrocyte membrane from oxidative damage. Erythrocyte membranes in patients with G6PD deficiency are therefore vulnerable to oxidative stress caused by primaquine or antibiotics such as sulfamethoxazole and dapsone. Patients typically develop acute hemolysis 2–3 days after being prescribed these medications. G6PD is frequently seen in patients originally from malaria-endemic regions (e.g., Liberia) because it offers resistance against Plasmodium infection.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Production of hemoglobin S** - Production of hemoglobin S is the underlying pathology of sickle cell disease, which is common in patients from malaria-endemic regions (e.g., Liberia). An acute sickle cell crisis, which may occur following an infection in patients with the homozygous sickle cell trait (HbSS), would present with abdominal pain and acute hemolytic anemia. However, the patient would have had a history of similar sickle cell crises (e.g., bone pain, chest pain). Most patients with HbSS become asplenic by the age of 3–5 years as a result of repeated episodes of splenic infarction.

**B - Defective UMP synthase** - A defect in UMP synthase results in orotic aciduria, which may present with anemia and splenomegaly. However, UMP synthase deficiency causes megaloblastic anemia and patients would typically have macrocytosis (MCV > 100 fL) and a low to normal reticulocyte count. Jaundice and abdominal pain are not typical manifestations of orotic aciduria. Instead, patients would show failure to thrive and have facial dysmorphism, congenital ureteric or heart defects, and recurrent infections.

**C - Cold agglutinins** - Cold agglutinin disease would present with features of hemolytic anemia, as seen here. However, cold agglutinin disease typically affects patients older than 60 years. Hemolysis usually develops following exposure to cold, and painless cyanosis of the digits (acrocyanosis) is often present. Splenomegaly is usually not seen. Cold agglutinin disease may also occasionally affect children. In the pediatric population, however it typically occurs following Mycoplasma pneumonia or infectious mononucleosis. There is no history of a cough, sore throat, or lymphadenopathy to suggest that either of these infections occurred in this patient.

**D - Absent hemoglobin beta chain** - The absence of hemoglobin beta-chain is seen in beta-thalassemia major. Beta-thalassemia major can result in hemolytic anemia and splenomegaly. However, the onset of symptoms in beta-thalassemia major occurs much earlier (usually beginning at the end of the infancy) and patients would show massive hepatosplenomegaly (unlike the mild splenomegaly seen here), microcytic anemia, a thalassemic facies (e.g., maxillary hyperplasia, frontal bossing), and a history of multiple transfusions in early childhood.

**E - Lead poisoning** - Acute lead toxicity may result in abdominal pain and acute hemolytic anemia. However, a history of lead exposure (e.g., ingestion of lead paint) and neurological features such as irritability and weakness would be present.

**G - Defective RBC membrane proteins** - RBC membranopathies such as hereditary spherocytosis and elliptocytosis can present with acute hemolytic anemia. However, a different diagnosis is more likely in this patient, who is presenting with hemolytic anemia for the first time after being prescribed TMP-SMX.

**H - Absent UDP-glucuronosyltransferase** - A complete deficiency of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase is seen in patients with type 1 Crigler-Najjar syndrome, which may present with unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia. However, the onset of jaundice usually occurs in the early neonatal period and levels of unconjugated bilirubin typically exceed 20 mg/dL. Most children die early during infancy and those who survive show evidence of kernicterus.

