### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Radiation-induced myeloid leukemia** - The presence of Auer rods is characteristic of myeloblasts, which would be seen in the peripheral smear of a patient with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). AML would manifest with pallor (due to anemia), petechiae (due to thrombocytopenia), and constitutional symptoms such as fatigue, night sweats, chills, and weight loss. Radiotherapy and alkylating chemotherapeutic agents (e.g., procarbazine, ifosfamide), both of which would have been used to treat the Hodgkin lymphoma in this patient, are important risk factors for AML. Other important risk factors for AML are myeloproliferative disorders (e.g, CML) and Down syndrome. The diagnosis of AML is confirmed by the presence of > 20% myeloblasts on bone marrow aspiration.

Image File: 196-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ab17da227a1.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Accelerated phase of chronic myeloid leukemia** - Accelerated phase of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is characterized by transformation of CML into ALL or AML. Although this patient currently has features of acute leukemia, the initial hematological malignancy in this patient was not CML because lymph nodes in CML would have been positive for t(9;22) and myeloid markers such as CD13 and CD33. CD30+ cells would not be expected.

**B - Leukemic transformation of T-cell lymphoma** - Sezary syndrome is characterized by the leukemic dissemination of neoplastic T-cells in a patient with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (mycosis fungoides). However, patients with Sezary syndrome would have features such as erythroderma and T-cells with cerebriform nuclei (Sezary cells) on a peripheral blood smear, instead of Auer rod-containing cells seen here. Moreover, the lymph nodes of the initial malignancy (mycosis fungoides) would have shown cells with T-cell markers such as CD2, CD3, and CD4, not CD15 and CD30.

**C - Richter transformation of small lymphocytic lymphoma** - Richter transformation describes the conversion of small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) into an aggressive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). Patients with DLBCL can manifest with fatigue, night sweats, chills, and weight loss, as seen in this patient currently. However, lymph node biopsy of the initial malignancy (SLL) would have shown B-cell markers such as CD5, CD19, and CD23, rather than CD15+ and CD30+ cells. Moreover, Auer rods, which are characteristic of myeloblasts, would not be seen in patients with DLBCL.

**D - Leukemic transformation of myelodysplastic syndrome** - Leukemic transformation is a complication that presents in up to 30% of cases of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Although this patient has features of leukemia, the initial hematological disease in this patient was not MDS because MDS does not cause lymphadenopathy or the formation of neoplastic cells that are CD15+ and C30+.

