### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Repeated phlebotomies** - As this patient's hematocrit (55%) shows, the main cause of vascular complications in polycythemia vera is the increased cell count and subsequent hyperviscosity of blood. To reduce her hematocrit, a phlebotomy (250–500 mL) should be performed every 2–3 days until a hematocrit of ≤ 45% is established.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Radiation therapy** - Radiation therapy can be considered to prepare a patient for a stem cell transplant. Stem cell transplantation is the only curative treatment for myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), which is a possible late-stage complication of polycythemia vera. However, contrary to polycythemia vera, in which all three cell lines are increased, MDS is characterized by a reduction in one or more cell lines, i.e., erythrocytopenia, leukocytopenia, and/or thrombocytopenia.

**B - Glucocorticoid therapy** - High-dose glucocorticoid therapy is the first-line treatment for an acute exacerbation of multiple sclerosis (MS). The vision impairment seen in this patient is highly typical for MS and is often the first manifestation. However, the patient is passed the typical age of onset for MS (20–40 years). In addition, she does not have any other findings typical for MS such as internuclear ophthalmoplegia or signs of spinal cord demyelination (e.g., spasticity, hyperreflexia, loss of vibration sense).

**C - Busulfan** - Although busulfan can be used as a cytoreductive treatment for polycythemia vera, it is only a second-line agent. Busulfan can cause extensive cytopenia (especially thrombocytopenia) and is therefore not the first-line treatment.

**D - Warfarin therapy** - Warfarin is an oral anticoagulant with three main indications: venous thrombosis, post-MI prevention of ischemic events, and stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation. Even though this patient did have an ischemic stroke, there are no signs of a-fib. Therefore, she should receive antiplatelet drugs for long-term prevention of further cerebrovascular events, but not warfarin.

**E - Imatinib therapy** - Imatinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor and first-line treatment for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). End-stage CML can result in extreme pleocytosis with subsequent infarctions, which would explain this patients neurological symptoms. However, her lab results show the opposite of what would be expected in end-stage CML (accelerated phase): an increase in RBCs, WBCs, and platelets, rather than a decrease.

**G - Interferon alpha** - Although interferon alpha can be used to treat polycythemia vera, it is only a second-line agent. There are not enough randomized controlled trials to conclude that interferon alpha is superior to the current first-line treatment in terms of safety and efficacy.

