### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Chronic lymphocytic leukemia** - This elderly patient most likely has chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), the most common type of leukemia in adults. His likely exposure to organic solvents while working as a pharmaceutical chemist is a risk factor for developing this condition. Most patients with CLL are asymptomatic and the diagnosis is suspected only when a routine blood count shows lymphocytosis. However, as the disease progresses, patients present with B symptoms, fatigue, painless lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, and pruritus, as seen here. Typical laboratory findings include smudge cells on peripheral blood smear, leukocytosis, and features of autoimmune hemolytic anemia (positive Coombs test). Detection of B-CLL antigens (e.g., CD5, CD19, CD20, and CD23) on flow cytometry would further support the diagnosis. The presence of thrombocytopenia (< 100,000/mm3) places this patient at stage IV of the Rai staging system, in which the median survival is 19 months.

Image File: 199-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59ba82ba1852b.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hodgkin lymphoma** - Hodgkin lymphoma can manifest with B symptoms, painless lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, pruritus, features of autoimmune hemolytic anemia (which may or may not be associated with immune thrombocytopenia), and leukocytosis, all of which are seen in this patient. However, smudge cells on peripheral blood smear are not typical of Hodgkin lymphoma. Definitive diagnosis of Hodgkin lymphoma requires lymph node excision with evidence of Reed-Sternberg cells on histopathologic examination.

Image File: 199-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59ae7369a9af3.jpg

**B - Acute myelogenous leukemia** - Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) most commonly occurs in elderly patients and can manifest with fatigue, hepatosplenomegaly, anemia, thrombocytopenia, and leukocytosis, all of which are seen in this patient. However, AML causes a sudden onset of symptoms with rapid progression (days to weeks), rarely presents with generalized lymphadenopathy, and skin involvement would manifest as leukemia cutis rather than chronic pruritus. Moreover, features of autoimmune hemolytic anemia would not be expected. Finally, AML is associated with myeloblasts containing Auer rods on peripheral blood smear, rather than the smudge cells seen here.

Image File: 199-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d948b9822.jpg

**C - Hairy cell leukemia** - Hairy cell leukemia can manifest with fatigue, weight loss, hepatosplenomegaly, anemia, leukocytosis (although leukopenia is more common), and thrombocytopenia, all of which are seen here. However, hairy cell leukemia is rarely associated with lymphadenopathy, B symptoms (fever, night sweats), or features of autoimmune hemolytic anemia. Moreover, peripheral blood smear in hairy cell leukemia typically shows leukocytes with villous, cytoplasmic projections (hairy cells) rather than smudge cells. Finally, hairy cell leukemia is most commonly seen in middle-aged patients.

Image File: 199-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59db8e7511396.jpg

**D - Mantle cell lymphoma** - Mantle cell lymphoma typically affects men > 65 years and can manifest with leukocytosis, B symptoms, lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, and signs of bone marrow involvement (e.g., anemia, thrombocytopenia). However, peripheral blood smear findings in mantle cell lymphoma include lymphoid cells with irregular configuration, variable sizes, and a high nuclear-cytoplasm ratio, not smudge cells. Moreover, features of autoimmune hemolytic anemia would not be expected in this condition.

**E - Chronic myelogenous leukemia** - Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) can manifest with B symptoms, hepatosplenomegaly, anemia, leukocytosis, and thrombocytopenia (in late stages of the disease), all of which are seen in this patient. However, generalized lymphadenopathy and features of autoimmune hemolytic anemia are very uncommon in patients with CML. Moreover, peripheral blood smear in CML typically shows extreme leukocytosis with immature myeloid cells (e.g., myelocytes, metamyelocytes), basophilia, eosinophilia, and thrombocytosis, rather than the smudge cells seen here.

Image File: 199-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9182e28f.jpg

**G - Myelodysplastic syndrome** - Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) most commonly affect the elderly, likely as a result of spontaneous mutations, but can also develop as a consequence of exposure to organic solvents. MDS can manifest with fatigue, anemia, and thrombocytopenia, all of which are seen here. However, systemic symptoms such as night sweats, weight loss, and fever are uncommon and usually signal a progression to acute leukemia. Hepatosplenomegaly and lymphadenopathy are only rarely observed. Moreover, patients with this condition usually present with leukopenia rather than leukocytosis. Finally, common findings on peripheral blood smear in MDS include oval macrocytosis, Howell-Jolly bodies, and the Pseudo-Pelger-Huet abnormality, not the smudge cells seen here.

Image File: 199-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59e75cd1c6fdc.jpg

**H - Leukemoid reaction** - A leukemoid reaction is characterized by a reactive leukocytosis that is typically associated with certain solid malignancies (e.g., lung cancer, which might be suspected in a patient with an extensive smoking history) or infection. However, the WBC elevation in this condition often exceeds 50,000/mm3. Moreover, peripheral blood smear in leukemoid reaction typically shows an increased number of mature neutrophils rather than smudge cells.

