### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Eosinopenia** - Glucocorticoids have anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive qualities, which are mediated by complex effects on cells of the immune system. While they inhibit apoptosis in neutrophils, they promote apoptosis in monocytes, lymphocytes, and eosinophils. Sequestration of eosinophils in peripheral inflammatory sites further contributes to eosinopenia.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Basophilia** - Basophilia is most commonly caused by medical conditions such as allergies, infections, inflammatory conditions, and myeloproliferative diseases (e.g., polycythemia vera). Basophilia associated with medications may occur in cases of hypersensitivity reactions to a certain substance. Glucocorticoids, however, have been shown to induce basophil apoptosis and thereby cause a decrease in basophil counts.

**B - Anemia** - Anemia can be caused by a decreased number of circulating red blood cells (RBCs). While glucocorticoids are known to affect immune cell populations (i.e., WBCs), they do not have an effect on the production or degradation of RBCs. In some forms of anemia, e.g., autoimmune hemolytic anemia, glucocorticoids are even the treatment of choice.

**C - Monocytosis** - Monocytosis is most commonly a response to infections, inflammations, and malignancies. The use of some medications has been associated with monocytosis (e.g., olanzapine). However, glucocorticoids lead to a potential decrease in monocyte count rather than increase.

**D - Lymphocytosis** - Lymphocytosis is most commonly caused by an immune response to infections or diseases, or, in cases of leukemia, is due to increased proliferation. While lymphocytosis has been associated with the use of certain medications (e.g., phenytoin), glucocorticoids have been shown to induce transient lymphopenia that normalizes within a few days of starting therapy.

**F - Granulocytopenia** - Granulocytopenia may be caused by a number of conditions, including hereditary illnesses, bone marrow disease, and autoimmune processes. While several medications (e.g., carbamazepine, cytotoxic drugs) can induce severe granulocytopenia (agranulocytosis), glucocorticoids inhibit neutrophil apoptosis and migration out of the endothelial lining of vessels, leading to neutrophilic leukocytosis and an overall increase in the granulocyte count.

