### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Hemoglobin variant on electrophoresis** - ACS is a common respiratory complication in patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) and is the leading cause of death in these patients. The most common causes of ACS include infection (typically viral, mycoplasmal, or chlamydial infections) and pulmonary infarction, which leads to vasoocclusion of the pulmonary vasculature. A peripheral blood smear is the best initial test for SCD and typically shows sickle cells and Howell-Jolly bodies. A marked increase of hemoglobin variant S (HbS) on gel electrophoresis, liquid chromatography, or isoelectric focusing confirms the diagnosis. Other common findings include a mild increase in fetal hemoglobin (HbF) and hemoglobin A2 (HbA2), with little to no adult hemoglobin (HbA).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Edematous epiglottis on indirect laryngoscopy** - An edematous epiglottis on indirect laryngoscopy may be seen in epiglottitis, which can manifest with fever and respiratory distress, especially in patients like this young girl who might not be vaccinated. However, the hallmarks of epiglottitis include drooling, dysphagia, and muffled voice, none of which are seen here. In addition, bilateral wheezing, pain upon standing, signs of hemolysis, and diffuse pulmonary consolidations on chest x-ray are inconsistent with epiglottitis.

**B - Gram-positive diplococci in bronchoalveolar lavage** - Gram-positive diplococci in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) may be observed in patients with Streptococcus pneumoniae infection. The underlying condition seen in this patient predisposes individuals to infection with encapsulated bacteria like S. pneumoniae. However, this pathogen typically causes lobar pneumonia, characterized by a lobar opacity on chest x-ray, rather than diffuse multilobular pulmonary consolidations. This patient has ACS, which is more commonly triggered by viral, mycoplasmal, or chlamydial infections than S. pneumoniae infection. While gram-positive diplococci in BAL cannot be entirely excluded, a different additional finding is much more likely in this patient.

**C - Schistocytes on peripheral blood smear** - Schistocytes are seen in conditions associated with mechanical damage to erythrocytes, such as hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). Although these conditions can manifest with hemolytic anemia, both HUS and TTP are characterized by thrombocytopenia, which is not seen here. Furthermore, bilateral wheezing, pain upon standing, and diffuse pulmonary consolidations on chest x-ray are not expected findings in HUS and TTP. This patient's underlying condition is more likely to show drepanocytes and Howell-Jolly bodies on a peripheral blood smear.

**D - Eosinophilia on white blood cell differential** - Eosinophilia on white blood cell differential can be seen in patients with allergic asthma, eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA), or pulmonary eosinophilia. All of these conditions are characterized by wheezing and respiratory distress. However, EGPA is typically characterized by other findings, such as cutaneous manifestations and symptoms in pulmonary eosinophilia are typically mild and include blood-tinged sputum. In this case, ACS could have been triggered by asthma. Although eosinophilia on a white blood cell differential cannot be entirely excluded, a different additional finding is much more likely in this patient.

