### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Positive direct Coombs test** - A positive direct Coombs test indicates that RBCs in the patient's blood have bound antibodies. This laboratory result would be consistent with a diagnosis of acute hemolytic transfusion reaction (AHTR), in which donor RBC lysis is mediated by preformed antibodies in the patient's serum. AHTRs are most commonly due to ABO incompatibility, and less commonly due to a mismatch and incompatibility of minor RBC antigens (e.g., anti-Jka, anti-Rh, etc.). Patients with a history of previous transfusions, especially those with sickle cell disease, are more likely to be subject to alloimmunization against foreign blood product antigens and subsequently have transfusion-related complications, including but not limited to AHTRs.

Image File: 204-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dce8cd74885d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Serum antibodies against Class I HLA antigens** - Serum antibodies directed against donor HLA antigens have been associated with febrile non-hemolytic transfusion reactions (FNHTRs), as the antibodies may bind to HLA antigens on residual donor leukocytes in blood products and possibly stimulate the release of inflammatory cytokines. This reaction could cause this patient's fever and tachypnea, but FNHTR does not result in hypotension. More importantly, the presence of hemoglobinuria and flank pain indicate that the patient instead has intravascular hemolysis.

**B - Low levels of serum IgA immunoglobulins** - Low levels of serum IgA immunoglobulins would be consistent with selective IgA deficiency. Patients with selective IgA deficiency have antibodies against IgA, which then mediate an allergic response and anaphylaxis during transfusion of blood products that incidentally contain donor IgA. While this patient's acute distress, tachycardia, tachypnea, and hypotension might be consistent with an anaphylactic response, the absence of corresponding angioedema, pulmonary (dyspnea, wheezing) and skin findings (urticaria, pruritus, flush) are not consistent with this diagnosis.

**C - Positive blood cultures** - Positive blood cultures in the postpartum period might suggest a diagnosis of puerperal sepsis, which can present with fever, hypotension, tachypnea, and tachycardia. While this patient currently has a number of findings that might raise concerns of sepsis, there is no evidence of a surgical site infection (e.g., purulent discharge from the wound), endometritis/parametritis (e.g., foul-smelling lochia, subinvolution of the uterus, cervical motion tenderness), or peritonitis (e.g., abdominal guarding, rigidity) to suggest a focus for puerperal sepsis in this patient.

**E - Bilateral pulmonary infiltrates on chest x-ray** - Bilateral pulmonary infiltrates that develop within 6 hours of transfusion of a blood product may indicate either transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI) or transfusion-associated circulatory overload (TACO). Both TRALI and TACO could present with acute distress, tachypnea, and tachycardia, as seen in this patient, and patients with TRALI may also develop fever and hypotension. However, patients with TRALI or TACO would present with hypoxemia as a result of respiratory insufficiency and bilateral crackles due to pulmonary edema. Moreover, patients with TACO are usually afebrile and hypertensive rather than hypotensive, given their state of circulatory overload. Together with the normal SpO2, the absence of these findings makes these diagnoses unlikely.

