### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Observation and follow-up** - Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is usually asymptomatic at the time of diagnosis and discovered incidentally on routine CBC. CLL is a low-grade malignancy that is often indolent. Chemotherapy treatment is mainly indicated for symptomatic relief rather than to improve survival time. Patients with asymptomatic CLL are observed and monitored for the development of symptoms or rapid progression of their disease.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Stem cell transplantation** - Although allogeneic stem cell transplantation is a potentially curative treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), it is reserved for patients with aggressive refractory disease, or in young, fit patients with early recurrence. This patient is neither young nor suffering from aggressive CLL, making the definite risks of stem cell transplantation (i.e., graft rejection, post-transplant infection, graft-versus-host disease) far outweigh the potential benefits of curing his asymptomatic CLL.

**B - Hydroxyurea** - Hydroxyurea is an appropriate supportive therapy in patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) who have failed first-line targeted therapy. While CML is often asymptomatic and diagnosed incidentally in adults on routine CBC with the discovery of leukocytosis, the differential in the case of CML would show a left shift toward neutrophils and other granulocytes, in contrast to the lymphocytosis found on this patient's CBC differential.

**C - All-trans retinoic acid** - Immediate treatment with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) would be appropriate for a patient with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), the M3 variant of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). AML classically presents in adults with clinical signs of pancytopenia such as infection, bleeding, or fatigue and would be confirmed by a peripheral blood smear showing immature blasts, often containing characteristic Auer rods, in contrast to the mature lymphocytes and smudge cells detected in this patient's blood smear.

**E - Fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab** - Chemotherapy treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, or rituximab is appropriate for patients experiencing severe symptoms (e.g., extreme fatigue or painful lymph nodes) or with signs of advanced stage disease (i.e., hepatosplenomegaly or thrombocytopenia) and age < 65–70 years. CLL is a low-grade malignancy that is often indolent, and chemotherapy treatment is given more often for symptomatic relief than to improve survival time. It would not be appropriate for this 71-year-old man who was diagnosed with asymptomatic CLL incidentally during a routine visit.

**F - Cladribine** - Cladribine is indicated for patients with hairy cell leukemia (HCL) which often presents with leukocytosis. However, the peripheral blood smear in the case of HCL would show “hairy cells” with abnormal filamentous projections, as opposed to the smudge cells seen on this patient's blood smear.

Image File: 206-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59a463b101a30.jpg

**G - Imatinib** - The tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib is appropriate as first-line targeted therapy for patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) caused by a t(9,22) chromosome, also known as the Philadelphia chromosome. While CML is often asymptomatic and diagnosed incidentally in adults on routine CBC with the discovery of leukocytosis, the differential in the case of CML would show a left shift toward neutrophils and other granulocytes, in contrast to the lymphocytosis found on this patient's CBC differential.

