### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Aminocaproic acid** - Antifibrinolytics such as aminocaproic acid and tranexamic acid can reverse the effects of tissue plasminogen activators by inhibiting the activation of plasminogen. In addition to antifibrinolytics, current guidelines also recommend administering FFP or cryoprecipitate in the case of bleeding due to thrombolytic therapy.

Image File: 208-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e5fa7e8238dc.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Protamine sulfate** - Protamine is a cationic peptide that forms a stable pair with anionic heparin or low molecular weight heparin. Protamine sulfate is administered intravenously to reverse bleeding due to heparin overdose. Protamine sulfate does not reverse the thrombolytic effects of tissue plasminogen activators (tPA).

**B - Vitamin K** - Patients who develop a major active bleed from significant liver disease or with the use of a vitamin K antagonist (e.g., warfarin) should receive intravenous vitamin K, which improves the hepatic synthesis of vitamin K-dependent clotting factors (factor II, VII, IX, and X). Vitamin K, however, does not reverse the effects of a tissue plasminogen activator, which is the cause of bleeding in this patient.

Image File: 208-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d972fcf0397c.jpg

**C - Plasmin** - A tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) facilitates thrombolysis by converting plasminogen to plasmin. The administration of plasmin would, therefore, enhance the effects of tPA, not reverse them.

**D - Desmopressin** - Desmopressin is used to treat hemophilia A and von Willebrand disease types 1 and 2 because it stimulates the release of Factor VIII/vWF from Weibel–Palade bodies in endothelial cells. Desmopressin does not reverse the effects of the tissue plasminogen activator administered to this patient.

