### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Protamine sulfate** - Five days after starting treatment for DVT, this pregnant woman developed hemodynamic instability and anemia secondary to bleeding, which was likely caused by heparin overdose, as suggested by the prolonged aPTT. Protamine sulfate is the antidote for heparin overdose. Protamine is a cationic peptide that binds to heparin, forming a stable compound that has no anticoagulant activity. Protamine sulfate is more effective in reversing the effects of unfractionated heparin than low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) because protamine does not fully counter the anti-factor X effect of LMWH.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Prothrombin complex concentrate** - Prothrombin complex concentrate, which consists of the vitamin K-dependent clotting factors II, VII, IX, and X, would rapidly reverse the effect of warfarin. Although warfarin therapy is usually initiated in patients with DVT, it would not be given to pregnant women because it crosses the placenta and is teratogenic. PCC is not used to reverse heparin toxicity because PCC products contain a small amount of heparin to prevent the in-vivo activation of coagulation.

**C - Vitamin K** - Vitamin K is an important cofactor for gamma-carboxylation of glutamic acid residues in the coagulation factors II, VII, IX, and X. Vitamin K is, therefore, able to reverse the effect of vitamin K antagonists like warfarin by increasing the synthesis of these factors. Although warfarin therapy is usually initiated in patients with DVT, it would not be given to pregnant women because it crosses the placenta and is teratogenic. Vitamin K does not reverse the effects of heparin.

Image File: 209-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d972fcf0397c.jpg

**D - Alteplase** - Alteplase catalyzes the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin, an active enzyme that breaks down clots. It is used for thrombolysis in patients with acute ischemic stroke and STEMI. The use of alteplase in this patient would exacerbate her bleeding!

Image File: 209-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e5fa7e8238dc.jpg

**E - Fresh frozen plasma** - Fresh frozen plasma (FFP), which contains all coagulation factors, can be used in the management of major bleeding associated with warfarin use. Although warfarin therapy is usually initiated in patients with DVT, it would not be given to pregnant women because it crosses the placenta and is teratogenic. FFP is not used to reverse heparin toxicity because FFP also contains antithrombin, which would be activated in the presence of heparin and inhibit the activity of other coagulation factors. In fact, FFP can be used to treat heparin resistance for the same reason.

