### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Schedule more frequent follow-up visits** - This patient's poor medication adherence is the most likely cause of her poorly-controlled diabetes, but the cause of her nonadherence is unclear at this point. Employing strategies that aim to strengthen the doctor-patient relationship and therapeutic alliance, such as scheduling frequent follow-up visits, and a patient-centered approach often improve patients' medication adherence. Frequent follow-up visits also enable closer monitoring of the patient's medication use. Other strategies to improve medication adherence include providing written instructions, optimizing the treatment plan (e.g., prescribing once-daily scheduled medications when possible), and using the teach-back method.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Refer the patient to a dietician** - A referral to a registered dietician could be helpful in addressing this patient's obesity, and a low-carbohydrate, low-fat diet should be recommended to prevent cardiovascular disease and improve diabetic control. However, her poorly-controlled diabetes is most likely driven primarily by poor medication adherence.

**C - Refer the patient to an endocrinologist** - Referring the patient to an endocrinologist is indicated if primary management strategies are unsuccessful or if the primary physician feels that managing this patient's condition and/or complications of her underlying disease exceed the level of his or her expertise. However, referral of this patient to an endocrinologist is not indicated at this time, since the elevated HbA1c is most likely due to poor medication adherence, which is well within the bounds of what can be expected of a primary physician.

**D - Add glyburide to the medication regimen** - The addition of glyburide, a sulfonylurea, is indicated if there is concern that monotherapy with metformin is inadequate for treatment of this patient's diabetes. However, this patient reports poor medication adherence; the addition of another agent is not indicated and may worsen adherence by complicating the medication regimen.

**E - Stop metformin and begin an insulin regimen** - Starting insulin should be considered if there is concern that metformin is inadequate for the treatment of this patient's diabetes. However, this patient reports poor medication adherence to metformin; control over her diabetes may improve after addressing this issue. Moreover, dosing for insulin therapy is more complicated than that for metformin therapy; inappropriate use of insulin can be dangerous due to the risk of inducing hypoglycemia.

