### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Exchange transfusion therapy** - Immediate exchange transfusion is the first-line therapy in SCD patients with an acute ischemic stroke. During exchange transfusion, erythrocytes with HbS are removed and exchanged with HbS-free erythrocytes, reducing both the concentration of HbS and the rate of vaso-occlusion, as well as increasing oxygen delivery. Although exchange transfusion improves outcomes, it does not reverse pre-existing vaso-occlusion. In this patient, supplemental oxygen should also be administered to maintain a saturation above 95%.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Intravenous tissue plasminogen activator therapy** - Intravenous thrombolytic therapy with tPA is indicated for acute ischemic stroke patients ≥ 18 years of age, in which the occlusive episode occurred within the past 3 hours. However, this patient is only 5 years old and his symptoms are most likely due to the clumping of sickled red blood cells rather than the traditional thrombi responsible for most ischemic strokes. As a result, tPA therapy would not be effective and is not recommended. Moreover, SCD patients are at increased risk of intracranial hemorrhage, which is why thrombolytics should only be given with caution.

**C - Mechanical thrombectomy** - Mechanical thrombectomy is usually reserved for patients with a proximal large artery occlusion in the anterior cerebral circulation. It is typically carried out in conjunction with intravenous thrombolytic therapy. This technique would not be appropriate in a young patient with SCD.

**D - Hydroxyurea therapy** - Hydroxyurea therapy is considered a first-line treatment for primary prevention of vaso-occlusive crises and is used in the management of anemia in SCD. As it functions primarily by raising fetal hemoglobin levels, which can take several months to increase significantly, hydroxyurea would not be helpful in the management of an acute ischemic stroke. However, this patient should be started on hydroxyurea before leaving the hospital, as it has been proven to improve survival outcomes and reduce complications.

**E - Heparin therapy** - Although SCD patients are considered hypercoagulable at baseline, anticoagulation is not recommended for SCD patients suffering from an acute ischemic stroke. In fact, the use of anticoagulants is strongly cautioned in all SCD patients, as these patients are at greater risk for intracranial hemorrhage. Heparin is only indicated as thromboprophylactic therapy in SCD patients ≥ 18 years of age that are hospitalized with an acute medical illness.

**F - Aspirin therapy** - Aspirin therapy, which has an antiplatelet effect, is a common adjunctive therapy in the management of an acute ischemic stroke, including in patients with SCD. Administration within 24–48 hours of symptom onset reduces the risk of recurrent stroke and improves mortality. However, another option is more appropriate for the acute management of this patient.

