### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Desmopressin** - Desmopressin stimulates von Willebrand factor (vWF) release from endothelial cells and is indicated in the treatment of von Willebrand disease (vWD). Although patients with vWD are often asymptomatic, possible manifestations include symptoms of platelet dysfunction (e.g., easy bruising, bleeding from mucosal surfaces) as vWF mediates platelet adhesion. In some cases, symptoms of disrupted secondary hemostasis (e.g., urinary, joint, and soft tissue bleeding) can occur since vWF prevents the breakdown of factor VIII. Around 50% of affected women with vWD have menorrhagia, as seen in this patient. Laboratory findings typically show a prolonged bleeding time (due to impaired platelet adhesion) despite a normal platelet count and in some patients a prolonged partial thromboplastin time (shortened half-life and decreased concentration of factor VIII).

Image File: 221-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d5fb1f04aa24.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Platelet transfusion** - Platelet transfusion can be used in the treatment of severe thrombocytopenia, which may present with epistaxis, menorrhagia, and increased bleeding time. However, this patient's platelet count is normal, which suggests platelet dysfunction rather than platelet deficiency as the cause of these findings. Furthermore, transfusion of platelets is only indicated if the platelet count falls below 10,000 mm3 or in the case of massive bleeding. The patient does not meet any of these criteria.

**B - Oral prednisone** - Oral prednisone is indicated in the treatment of certain bleeding disorders, such as immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). Both disorders may present with epistaxis and menorrhagia, as seen here. However, both conditions are characterized by thrombocytopenia. This patient's platelet count is normal, suggesting platelet dysfunction rather than platelet deficiency as the cause of the prolonged bleeding time. In addition, TTP usually presents with additional findings, including fever, neurological signs and symptoms (e.g., headache, altered mental status, or seizures), symptoms of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (e.g., fatigue, pallor, and jaundice), as well as impaired renal function, all of which are absent in this patient.

**C - Intravenous immunoglobulins** - IVIGs are indicated to treat certain immune deficiencies, inflammatory disorders, and autoimmune conditions, such as immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). Since ITP is a disorder of primary hemostasis, it may present with a prolonged bleeding time and mucosal bleeding like the menorrhagia and epistaxis seen in this patient. However, the essential laboratory finding of ITP is thrombocytopenia, which this patient lacks. In addition, secondary hemostasis is unaffected; a normal aPTT would be expected.

Image File: 221-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d972fcf0397c.jpg

**D - Vitamin K injection** - Vitamin K is required as a cofactor for the synthesis of the coagulation factors II, VII, IX, and X. Vitamin K deficiency or inhibition (due to vitamin K antagonists such as warfarin) may result in a prolonged aPTT and mucosal bleeding, as seen here. However, disrupted secondary hemostasis (e.g., hemarthrosis, hematomas, palpable ecchymoses) would also be expected. This patient lacks an underlying condition that may cause vitamin K deficiency (malnutrition, malabsorption, biliary/liver disease) and she has not taken any medications that block fat-soluble vitamin absorption. Vitamin K injection is not indicated in this case.

Image File: 221-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d972fcf0397c.jpg

**E - Plasma exchange** - Prompt initiation of plasma exchange therapy is essential for treating thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). TTP may present with mucosal bleeding, such as epistaxis and menorrhagia, as a sign of thrombocytopenia. However, this patient's platelet count is normal, suggesting platelet dysfunction rather than platelet deficiency as the cause of the prolonged bleeding time. Furthermore, TTP is characterized by additional findings, including fever, neurological signs and symptoms (e.g., headache, altered mental status, or seizures), symptoms of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (e.g., fatigue, pallor, and jaundice), as well as impaired renal function, all of which are absent in this patient.

**F - Tranexamic acid** - Tranexamic acid is indicated to treat hyperfibrinolysis, which also presents with abnormal bleeding. However, the symptoms of hyperfibrinolysis are usually more severe and laboratory findings show a prolonged bleeding time and aPTT in addition to prolonged PT and elevated fibrin split products. Hyperfibrinolysis is the underlying pathomechanism of a variety of bleeding disorders, including peripartum complications (e.g., septic abortion) and disseminated intravascular coagulation. This patient does not have any risk factors of hyperfibrinolysis, such as trauma, liver dysfunction, or sepsis, and presents with moderate bleeding from mucosal surfaces, which suggests a different underlying mechanism.

**H - Substitution of clotting factor VIII** - In patients with hemophilia A, the substitution of clotting factor VIII may be indicated in the case of surgery or trauma (in mild forms), or as bleeding prophylaxis (in severe forms). Because hemophilia A is an x-linked recessive disorder, severe forms are usually only seen in males; females can be asymptomatic or symptomatic carriers of the mutated x chromosome. Menorrhagia is a common symptom in female carriers, and a prolonged aPTT as seen in this patient would also be expected. However, the bleeding time would be normal.

Image File: 221-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d972fcf0397c.jpg

