### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - High lactate dehydrogenase concentration on serum studies** - A high lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) concentration on serum studies is associated with a poor prognosis in Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) and many other malignancies (e.g., non-Hodgkin lymphoma, testicular cancer, AML). Tumors are thought to preferentially metabolize glucose to lactate even in an aerobic state (Warburg effect), which causes an increase in LDH concentration. Two processes further exacerbate the Warburg effect: increased tumor glycolysis (to sustain the high proliferation rate of tumor cells) and necrosis at the center of large tumors (likely due to limited blood and, consequently, oxygen and nutrient supply). Therefore, elevated LDH levels correlate with tumor burden. Other factors that indicate a poor prognosis in HL include a high ESR, the involvement of ≥ 3 lymph node areas, large mediastinal tumor, bulky disease, factors included in the International Prognostic Score, extranodal involvement, the presence of B symptoms, and histological characteristics (e.g., lymphocyte-depleted subtype).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - 12;21 chromosomal translocation on karyotyping** - A 12;21 chromosomal translocation is the most common specific abnormality in childhood B-ALL and indicates a good prognosis. Although ALL can present with B symptoms (e.g., weight loss, fever, fatigue) and painless lymphadenopathy, this patient's lymph node biopsy results are consistent with Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). A 12;21 chromosomal translocation is not a typical finding in HL.

**C - Lymphocytosis on lymph node biopsy** - Lymphocytosis on lymph node biopsy indicates a good prognosis in Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). This finding is seen in lymphocyte-rich classic HL and nodular lymphocyte-predominant HL, the subtypes with the best prognoses, and in nodular sclerosing classical HL, the most common subtype.

**D - 9;22 chromosomal translocation on karyotyping** - The 9;22 chromosomal translocation is characteristic of CML. A t(9;22) Philadelphia chromosome is also seen in adults and children with ALL (in ∼ 20–30% of adults and 2–3% of children affected by ALL) and in AML (in < 2% of patients), where it indicates an unfavorable prognosis. Although leukemia can present with B symptoms (e.g., weight loss, fever, fatigue) and, in the case of ALL, painless lymphadenopathy, this patient's lymph node biopsy confirms the diagnosis of Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). A 9;22 chromosomal translocation is not a typical finding in HL.

**E - Young age at disease onset** - Young age at disease onset is associated with a good prognosis in Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). HL has a bimodal age distribution: adults aged 25–30 years most commonly develop nodular sclerosing HL, a histological subtype of classic HL that is associated with a favorable prognosis; adults aged 50–70 years often develop mixed-cellularity HL, which has a slightly worse prognosis. Age ≥ 45 years is included as a negative prognostic factor in the International Prognostic Score.

**F - Basophilia on a complete blood count** - Basophilia is seen in myeloproliferative disorders, particularly chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Increasing basophilia is a sign of acceleration and can indicate an impending blast crisis. Although patients with CML are usually asymptomatic at diagnosis, some patients with this condition present with B symptoms (e.g., weight loss, fever, fatigue). However, lymphadenopathy, as seen in this patient, is not a typical finding in CML. This patient has Hodgkin lymphoma, and basophilia is not a prognostic marker in this condition.

