### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Impaired erythropoietin production** - Impaired EPO production is the primary cause of anemia of prematurity (AOP). EPO is produced by the fetal liver as well as fetal kidneys and production increases with gestational age. EPO levels and erythropoiesis then show a physiological decrease after birth, as the onset of breathing and the closure of the ductus arteriosus further increase tissue oxygenation. Preterm infants are typically born with a lower hematocrit than full-term infants, and thus, the reduced EPO production commonly causes AOP to develop. Poor oxygen delivery to the tissue results, which has led to this infant's apnea, a common sign of AOP. Laboratory findings for AOP include normocytic and normochromic red blood cells with a low-normal reticulocyte count, all of which are present in this patient.

Management of anemia of prematurity includes limitation of blood withdrawals, iron supplementation (routinely done in preterm infants), and RBC transfusions if necessary (taking into account restrictive guidelines for transfusions in neonates). Erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (e.g., recombinant EPO) are not routinely administered due to limited efficacy and severe side effects (e.g., retinopathy of prematurity). The anemia typically self resolves around three to six months of age.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Impaired synthesis of hemoglobin β-chain** - Impaired synthesis of hemoglobin β-chain would result in beta thalassemia. Minor variant beta thalassemia would have unremarkable symptoms, and would not cause severe anemia in an infant. Major variant beta thalassemia causes a severe hemolytic microcytic anemia, which would present with an increase in indirect bilirubin and elevated reticulocytes, which are not present in this patient.

**B - Defective δ-aminolevulinic acid synthase** - An x-linked recessive defect in δ-ALA synthase is the genetic defect that gives rise to inherited cases of sideroblastic anemia, which typically presents as a microcytic anemia (MCV < 80 μm3). While X-linked recessive disorders predominantly present in men, about ⅓ of cases of X-linked sideroblastic anemia are middle aged women, due to X chromosome inactivation in red cell progenitors that can occur with advancing age. Sideroblastic anemia would be a very unlikely diagnosis in a 3-week-old female infant.

**C - Bone marrow suppression** - Bone marrow suppression results in aplastic anemia and can be caused by inherited disorders (e.g., Fanconi anemia, Diamond-Blackfan anemia), medication side effects/toxicity, and infections such as parvovirus B19, hepatitis viruses, EBV, and HIV. Congenital conditions such as Fanconi anemia or Diamond-Blackfan anemia typically present with skeletal abnormalities (e.g., microcephaly, thumb malformations), which are absent in this newborn. She also has no signs of infection (e.g., fever) and does not receive medications. Lastly, aplastic anemia would present with pancytopenia.

**D - Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency** - G6PD deficiency is an an X-linked recessive disorder that very rarely presents in female individuals. Additionally, it is a hemolytic anemia that presents after a sudden surge in oxidative stress, such as infection or medications. As this infant has normal levels of total bilirubin and indirect bilirubin, without any recent infection or medication use, she likely does not have a hemolytic anemia.

**E - Iron deficiency** - Premature infants are at a higher risk for iron deficiency anemia due to shortened maternal-fetal iron transfer and reduced gastrointestinal absorption after birth. However, iron deficiency typically results in a microcytic, hypochromic anemia when symptomatic rather than this patient's normocytic anemia.

