### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Salmonella enterica** - Salmonella, an encapsulated bacteria, is the most likely cause of this patient's osteomyelitis. In the US and Europe, it is the most common pathogen in SCD-associated osteomyelitis due to the functional asplenia common to this population, induced by chronic splenic occlusions and infarctions. S. aureus is the most common cause of osteomyelitis in SCD patients in Africa and the Middle East and remains the most common cause of osteomyelitis overall.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Streptococcus pneumoniae** - As an encapsulated bacteria, S. pneumoniae is the most common cause of bacteremia, sepsis, and meningitis in patients with SCD. However, it is a less common cause of osteomyelitis.

**B - Escherichia coli** - E. coli and other gram-negative bacteria can cause osteomyelitis in neonates, children, and adults. It is frequently identified in SCD patients with osteomyelitis. However, another organism is more commonly found.

**C - Streptococcus pyogenes** - Group A Streptococcus is a common cause of osteomyelitis in infants and children (up to 8% of cases). However, this patient's history of SCD makes another organism more likely.

**E - Pseudomonas aeruginosa** - P. aeruginosa osteomyelitis is seen most often in adult IV drug users. It is typically only identified in pediatric populations following puncture wounds to the foot, such as stepping on a nail. This patient has no history of acute trauma to his foot, making P. aeruginosa an unlikely cause.

**F - Coccidioides immitis** - Coccidioides immitis is the most common fungal cause of osteomyelitis in children and adults, as a complication of underlying coccidioidomycosis. However, these patients typically present with infection in multiple sites and commonly involving the vertebral bodies. Also, it is only seen in the Southwestern US, making this an unlikely choice.

