### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Plasma exchange therapy** - Plasma exchange therapy is the most appropriate treatment for this patient, since thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is caused by autoantibodies against ADAMTS13. Because untreated TTP is almost always fatal, treatment should be started after a presumptive diagnosis is made based on clinical features and initial laboratory results. Treatment should not be delayed by waiting for test results to confirm ADAMTS13 deficiency, and should include a glucocorticoid (e.g., prednisone).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Electroencephalography** - An EEG would be a useful test for the diagnosis of seizure disorders. Although this patient is presenting with seizures, his overall presentation is consistent with TTP rather than a primary seizure disorder. An EEG would not add any useful information or alter the management of this patient.

**B - Transfusion of packed red blood cells** - Transfusion of packed RBCs is used for supportive therapy in patients with hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) when hemoglobin levels are < 6 g/dL. HUS presents with low platelets, renal failure, and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, as seen in this patient. However, HUS usually occurs in children and severe abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea would also be expected, since HUS is typically caused by the toxins of enteropathogen bacteria (e.g., Shiga toxin from EHEC). Furthermore, this patient's fever and neurological symptoms would not be explained by HUS.

**C - CT scan of the head** - A CT scan of the head would be useful for diagnosing neurological conditions associated with a seizures, such as a brain mass or a stroke. However, this patient's laboratory values and signs of bleeding indicate TTP, which does not require neuroimaging.

**E - Fresh frozen plasma transfusion** - Fresh frozen plasma transfusion is an appropriate therapy for disseminated intravascular coagulation or coagulopathy due to hemorrhage, vitamin K deficiency, or liver failure. This patient most likely has TTP due to an autoantibody against ADAMTS13. A deficiency of this enzyme leads to inappropriately cleaved von Willebrand factor multimers, which can cause thrombosis. FFP would not address the underlying mechanism of this disease, as the autoantibody and the inappropriately cleaved vWF proteins would remain in the circulation.

**F - MRI scan of the head** - An MRI scan of the head would be useful for diagnosing neurological conditions associated with a seizures, such as a brain mass or a stroke. However, this patient's laboratory values and signs of bleeding indicate TTP, which does not require neuroimaging.

**G - Platelet transfusion** - Platelet transfusion is sometimes used to treat thrombocytopenia with clinically important active bleeding or as prophylaxis when thrombocytopenic patients require surgery. Although this patient has signs of minor bleeding (epistaxis, petechiae), they are not clinically significant enough to warrant platelet transfusion as they will not lead to hemodynamic instability.

**H - Intravenous tranexamic acid** - Tranexamic acid is an antifibrinolytic agent that is sometimes used for the treatment of uterine or gastrointestinal hemorrhage and bleeding due to inherited coagulation disorders. This patient's presentation is consistent with TTP due to an autoantibody against ADAMTS13. A deficiency of this enzyme leads to inappropriately cleaved von Willebrand factor multimers, which can cause thrombosis. Tranexamic acid would not address the underlying mechanism of this disease.

