### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Continue unfractionated heparin** - This patient should continue unfractionated heparin therapy to maintain an aPTT 1.5–2.5 times normal until he begins a suitable longer term anticoagulant to fully treat his DVT. When heparin is initiated, a baseline platelet count needs to be established in order to monitor for heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT). Nonimmune heparin-associated thrombocytopenia (formerly known as type 1 HIT), as seen in this patient, results in a transient, moderate reduction in platelet count, poses a negligible risk for thrombosis, and is self-limiting.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Switch to enoxaparin** - Switching to enoxaparin would be a reasonable option to complete this patient's DVT treatment regimen in an outpatient setting. However, because enoxaparin is primarily eliminated via the kidneys, it is contraindicated if the estimated GFR is < 30 mL/min. Impaired kidney function can predispose to supratherapeutic anticoagulation and bleeding. Therefore, this patient, who has an estimated GFR of 28 mL/min/1.73 m2, is not a candidate for enoxaparin therapy.

**C - Switch to warfarin** - Switching to warfarin as a means of providing longer term anticoagulation for treatment of the patient's deep venous thrombosis would be reasonable. However, abruptly stopping heparin and switching to warfarin is dangerous because of the transient hypercoagulable state that follows the initiation of therapy with warfarin. In order to prevent new clot formation during this time, heparin is administered continuously along with warfarin until a therapeutic international normalized ratio (INR) is attained.

**D - Discontinue anticoagulation** - Discontinuing all anticoagulation would be inappropriate in this patient, as his newly diagnosed DVT requires treatment. Most guidelines stipulate 3 months of anticoagulation for first-time DVT, but some patients may require even longer treatment.

**E - Switch to argatroban** - Switching to argatroban would be indicated if this patient developed heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (formerly known as type 2 HIT). This patient's drop in platelets should raise suspicion for HIT. However, his platelets have only dropped by 25%, making HIT type 2 unlikely, as it usually manifests with > 50% reduction in platelet count. In addition, the onset of HIT is typically 5–14 days after heparin therapy has begun. Because he has only been receiving treatment for the past 2 days, HIT is even less likely; switching to argatroban would not be appropriate.

**F - Obtain serum immunoassay** - Obtaining a serum immunoassay (e.g., a serotonin release assay) at this point would be premature. In individuals where there is a strong suspicion for heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type II, an immunoassay does help to confirm the diagnosis. Patients with platelet count reductions > 30–50% more than 3 days after starting heparin, otherwise unexplained thromboses, or platelet counts < 20,000 in the setting of heparin therapy should undergo a serum immunoassay to evaluate for the presence of heparin-bound anti-platelet factor 4 antibodies. However, because this patient has had a mild drop in platelet count and it remains > 20,000, an immunoassay would not be indicated.

