### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Intracerebral hemorrhage** - Intracerebral hemorrhage is a severe but rare complication of thrombolytic therapy (e.g., alteplase, streptokinase), which this patient most likely received for her acute saddle pulmonary embolism. Thrombolytics increase the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin, and also result in increases in PT and PTT. In this case, the thrombolytic adequately dissolved the thrombus but also led to hemorrhagic stroke and increased intracranial pressure, as evidenced by her change in mental status and papilledema.

Image File: 237-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e5fa7e8238dc.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Acute metabolic encephalopathy** - Acute metabolic encephalopathy may be caused by a wide range of factors (e.g., hypoxia, toxins, ischemia, medications) and is characterized by an acute change in mental status with waxing and waning level of alertness. However, affected patients typically do not present with focal neurological deficits like dysarthria. Furthermore, metabolic encephalopathy would not explain this patient's papilledema.

**B - Internal carotid artery dissection** - Internal carotid artery (ICA) dissection occurs when the tunica media separates from the tunica intima of the carotid artery, creating a false lumen that can ultimately narrow or obstruct the true lumen. Affected patients may present with symptoms of ischemic stroke (e.g., slurred speech and dysarthria, as seen here), but these symptoms are typically accompanied by some combination of headache, neck pain, amaurosis fugax, or pulsatile tinnitus, none of which are seen in this patient. The timing of symptom onset after receiving thrombolytic therapy makes a different etiology more likely.

**C - Idiopathic intracranial hypertension** - Idiopathic intracranial hypertension (pseudotumor cerebri) is a neurologic condition of unknown etiology that is characterized by chronically elevated intracranial pressure without evidence of hydrocephalus or a space-occupying lesion within the cranium. IIH could explain this patient's papilledema but would not explain this patient's acute neurological change.

**D - Drug-induced hypotension** - Drug-induced hypotension may occur in some patients following thrombolytic therapy, especially with streptokinase, which can cause an anaphylactic reaction. Hypotension due to anaphylaxis can cause depressed mental status but an anaphylactic reaction would not explain this patient's slurred speech or papilledema.

**E - Embolic cerebrovascular accident** - Embolic cerebrovascular accident most often occurs in the setting of known atherosclerosis of the carotid arteries or in patients with atrial fibrillation in which an atrial thrombus has formed. Embolic stroke can present with dysarthria and decreased mental status, as seen in this patient. However, an arterial embolus to the cerebral arteries from a pulmonary artery clot is exceptionally unlikely, as the embolus would first need to traverse the small capillary beds of the lungs before entering systemic arterial circulation. Moreover, the patient was recently given a thrombolytic agent that dissolved the pulmonary arterial clot.

