### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Acute myeloid leukemia** - As the name implies, acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is caused by mutations in bone marrow stem cells that proliferate rapidly. Patients with AML also tend to have a highly increased number of blast cells compared to, e.g., chronic leukemia. Differentiating the various types of WBC disorders is best done by looking at the age of the patient (ALL is common in children, AML in adults), the number of blasts (acute leukemia generally causes a more rapid and severe elevation in blast cells) and the staining pattern: Myeloperoxidase is positive in AML and negative in ALL.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Non-Hodgkin lymphoma** - The only findings in this patient that are consistent with non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) are the reduced WBC, RBC, and platelet counts. The patient is missing the key finding of NHL: painless lymphadenopathy. Blasts would also not be expected to show up on blood smear, as these cells are usually only found in the bone marrow. Peripheral blasts indicate that the lesion originates from the bone marrow, whereas lymphomas arise from peripheral lymphocytes (these lymphocytes can, however, invade the bone marrow during later stages of the disease).

**C - Hairy cell leukemia** - This patient does have some features consistent with hairy cell leukemia, such as weight loss, fatigue, and cytopenias, but his bone marrow biopsy shows blasts rather than hairy cells. Additionally, as hairy cell leukemia is considered a B-cell lymphoma, the cells would stain positively for CD20 rather than CD33 and CD34.

**D - Chronic lymphocytic leukemia** - This patient has some features that are typical of CLL, such as fatigue, weight loss, older age (CLL patients are often even older), and bone marrow suppression. However, the cells in CLL would stain positively for CD19, CD20, and CD23 instead of CD33 and CD34. Additionally, the blood smear would likely show smudge cells.

**E - Acute lymphoblastic leukemia** - This patient does have an acute leukemia, as indicated by the presence of blasts on bone marrow biopsy and anemia and thrombocytopenia on labs. In the case of ALL, though, the blasts would stain negatively for myeloperoxidase and positively for CD10, CD19, and CD20, instead of CD33 and CD34. Other important markers that stain positively in ALL are terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase and CALLA.

