### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma** - This patient most likely has a diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), which is the most common type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) in adults, accounting for approx. 25% of cases. DLBCL is an aggressive (high-grade) type of lymphoma occurring spontaneously or secondary to various types of low-grade B-cell lymphomas (e.g., CLL, MALT lymphoma).

Image File: 244-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fbbe5513a95f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Adult T-cell lymphoma** - Adult T-cell lymphoma is an aggressive, high-grade type of T-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma that may present with B symptoms, painless lymphadenopathy, and splenomegaly, which are also seen in this patient. However, this condition is very rare and, as a T-cell lymphoma, it would not stain CD20-positive but rather CD3-positive.

**B - Mantle cell lymphoma** - Mantle cell lymphoma is an aggressive, high-grade type of B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) that may manifest with B symptoms, painless lymphadenopathy, and splenomegaly. As a subtype of B-cell lymphoma, cells from a mantle cell lymphoma would stain CD20-positive, as do those from this patient's sample. However, mantle cell lymphoma usually occurs in elderly men and only accounts for approx. 7% of adult NHL, making another diagnosis more likely.

Image File: 244-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59dcace1ee45f.jpg

**C - Burkitt lymphoma** - Burkitt lymphoma is an aggressive type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma that may manifest, as this patient's condition, with B symptoms, painless lymphadenopathy, and splenomegaly. As a subtype of B-cell lymphoma, cells from a Burkitt lymphoma would stain CD20-positive, as do those from this patient's sample. However, Burkitt lymphoma is most common in children, typically occurring in association with EBV infection. In adults, Burkitt lymphoma typically occurs in association with HIV infection, which may present with lymphadenopathy, splenomegaly, and fatigue. This patient shows no other signs of HIV infection or AIDS, nor does he have risk factors that would predispose him to contracting HIV, making this diagnosis less likely.

Image File: 244-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5729cb18accf3.jpg

**D - Hairy cell leukemia** - Hairy cell leukemia is an indolent, low-grade type of B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma that may manifest with fatigue and splenomegaly. As a B-cell lymphoma, a sample would stain CD20-positive, as does that of this patient's sample. However, as an indolent type of lymphoma, hair cell leukemia would not typically manifest with such extensive lymph node involvement after a short period of symptoms. Also, night sweats and fever are not usually seen in hairy cell leukemia.

Image File: 244-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59a463b101a30.jpg

**E - Follicular lymphoma** - Follicular lymphoma is the most common type of indolent, low-grade B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma in adults and may manifest with B symptoms, painless lymphadenopathy, and splenomegaly, which are also seen in this patient. Like the sample from this patient, follicular lymphoma cells also stains CD20-positive. However, as an indolent type of lymphoma, follicular lymphoma would not explain the extensive lymph node involvement in this patient after a short period of symptoms and the detection of lymphocytes with a high index of proliferation.

Image File: 244-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59ba98fbbaac6.jpg

**G - Hodgkin lymphoma** - Hodgkin lymphoma may manifest with B symptoms, painless lymphadenopathy, and splenomegaly, which are also seen in this patient. However, lymph node biopsy in patients with Hodgkin lymphoma would typically show CD15/30-positive Reed-Sternberg cells. Hodgkin lymphomas usually lack pan-B cell markers (CD19, CD20).

Image File: 244-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59ae7369a9af3.jpg

