### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - No antibiotic prophylaxis is indicated** - In patients with asplenia, antibiotic prophylaxis should be considered for procedures that increase the risk of infection with encapsulated bacteria (i.e., procedures involving the paranasal sinuses and respiratory tract). In addition, asplenic patients may receive antibiotic prophylaxis for infective endocarditis (IE) if they undergo procedures with a high risk of bacteremia, e.g., tooth extraction. These procedures, however, do not include orthodontic bracket placement. This patient will undergo a dental procedure with a low risk of infection with encapsulated bacteria or bacteremia and she has no other indications for endocarditis prophylaxis (e.g., history of IE); therefore, no antibiotic prophylaxis is indicated.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administration of oral amoxicillin 60 minutes prior to the procedure** - Administration of oral amoxicillin 60 minutes prior to the procedure is the first-line therapy for infective endocarditis prophylaxis, which is indicated in high-risk patients undergoing procedures with a significant risk of bacteremia. Orthodontic bracket placement is not considered a dental procedure with a high risk of bacteremia.

**B - Following the procedure, daily administration of oral penicillin V for one year** - Daily administration of oral penicillin V for one year is indicated after splenectomy in children under 5 years of age to prevent infections with encapsulated bacteria. However, daily antibiotic therapy for one year is not recommended in adult patients after splenectomy, and it is not indicated after dental procedures in asplenic patients.

**C - Administration of intravenous cefazolin 30 minutes prior to the procedure** - Administration of intravenous cefazolin 30 minutes prior to the procedure is indicated for endocarditis prophylaxis in patients who are unable to take oral penicillin (first-line). Endocarditis prophylaxis is indicated in high-risk patients undergoing procedures with a significant risk of bacteremia. Orthodontic bracket placement is not considered a dental procedure with a high risk of bacteremia. Furthermore, this patient does not have nausea or vomiting and has no history of a condition that impairs deglutition.

**D - Administration of intramuscular clindamycin 60 minutes prior to the procedure** - Administration of intramuscular clindamycin 60 minutes prior to the procedure is indicated for endocarditis prophylaxis in patients allergic to penicillin (first-line). Endocarditis prophylaxis is indicated in high-risk patients undergoing procedures with a significant risk of bacteremia. Orthodontic bracket placement is not considered a dental procedure with a high risk of bacteremia. Furthermore, this patient does not have a history of allergy to penicillin.

**F - Following the procedure, monthly administration of intramuscular penicillin G for 5 years** - Monthly administration of intramuscular penicillin G for 5 years or until the patient reaches 21 years of age is used as secondary prevention of rheumatic heart disease in patients with a history of rheumatic fever without carditis. This patient does not have a history of rheumatic fever.

