### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Anti-β2 glycoprotein antibodies** - Anti-β2 glycoprotein antibodies are procoagulatory antiphospholipid antibodies used in the diagnosis of antiphospholipid syndrome. These antibodies inactivate anticoagulant proteins (e.g., protein C and protein S, antithrombin III) and activate platelets and vascular endothelium, thereby resulting in a hypercoagulable state with an increased risk of arterial and venous thrombi. Another important antiphospholipid antibody implicated in APS is the lupus anticoagulant, which is responsible for the prolonged aPTT seen in this patient.

Image File: 247-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5de917ba24104.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Anti-nuclear antibodies** - Anti-nuclear antibodies (ANA) are nonspecific autoantibodies that can be elevated in several autoinflammatory conditions, most notably SLE. Their presence can be helpful in establishing the diagnosis. SLE is the most common condition associated with antiphospholipid syndrome, which is the suspected cause of this patient's deep vein thrombosis. However, the detection of ANA does not aid in establishing the diagnosis of APS.

**B - Anti-ribonucleoprotein antibodies** - Anti-ribonucleoprotein antibodies (anti-U1 RNP antibodies) are elevated in patients with mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD). MCTD is characterized by overlapping features of systemic lupus erythematosus, polymyositis, systemic sclerosis, and Raynaud phenomenon. However, MCTD does not predispose to arterial or deep vein thrombosis and is an unlikely cause of this patient's current presentation and history of recurrent miscarriage.

**C - Anti-cyclical citrullinated peptide antibodies** - Anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide antibodies are specific for rheumatoid arthritis, which is an important differential diagnosis to consider in a patient with stiff, swollen finger joints. Presence of anti-CCP antibodies would not confirm a diagnosis of antiphospholipid syndrome, but could be useful in ruling out RA as the cause of this patient's APS.

**D - Anti-DNA topoisomerase I antibodies** - Anti-DNA topoisomerase I antibodies are seen in diffuse systemic sclerosis, which should be considered in patients presenting with stiff, swollen finger joints. The absence of other classic features, including Raynaud phenomenon, cutaneous findings (diffusely thickened and hardened skin), and multiple organ system involvement (e.g., gastrointestinal tract, lungs, kidneys) makes this an unlikely diagnosis. Furthermore, diffuse SSc does not predispose patients to thrombosis, as seen here; detection of anti-DNA topoisomerase I antibodies would not be helpful in confirming the correct diagnosis.

**F - Anti-synthetase antibodies** - Anti-synthetase antibodies, such as anti-Jo-1 antibodies, are associated with dermatomyositis (DM) and polymyositis. These rheumatic diseases are characterized by progressive muscle weakness due to chronic inflammation of skeletal muscles, as well as cutaneous manifestations (e.g., heliotrope rash). Neither conditions cause an increased risk of thrombosis, as seen in this patient.

