### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Chronic myeloid leukemia** - Chronic myeloid leukemia, which is caused by a Philadelphia translocation resulting in the formation of a BCR-ABL fusion gene, presents variably depending on its clinical phase. The chronic phase, which this patient is likely in, may go unnoticed for years but eventually manifests with B symptoms and remarkable splenomegaly in the absence of lymphadenopathy. Blood analysis typically reveals thrombocytosis, basophilia, and eosinophilia, as well as extreme leukocytosis with an increased number of progenitor cells, namely promyelocytes, myelocytes, and metamyelocytes. In contrast to other forms of leukemia, leukocyte alkaline phosphatase is characteristically low.

Image File: 248-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9182e28f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Leukemoid reaction** - Leukemoid reaction describes the acute response of the human immune system to stress or an infection. It manifests as severe leukocytosis with a left shift and subsequent increase in precursor cells of leukocytes, such as band cells. Although this patient does present with a high WBC count and intermittent fever, the leukocyte alkaline phosphatase score would be high in contrast to this patient's diminished level. Moreover, a leukemoid reaction is not associated with the BCR-ABL fusion protein.

**B - Acute lymphoblastic leukemia** - Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common malignancy in children and may rarely occur in adults. Up to 30% of adults diagnosed with ALL are associated with the BCR-ABL fusion gene. Although ALL features symptoms similar to this patient's findings (B symptoms, splenomegaly, and anemia), it commonly presents with painless lymphadenopathy or mediastinal invasion. Moreover, ALL is not associated with thrombocytosis or myeloid progenitor cells on a blood smear. Instead, small cells with a slightly indented nucleus (lymphoblasts) would be expected.

Image File: 248-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5911bde68e8a9.jpg

**C - Chronic lymphocytic leukemia** - Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is the most common form of leukemia in adults and is associated with B symptoms, splenomegaly, and signs of anemia as seen in this patient. However, painless lymphadenopathy, a hallmark of CLL, is absent in this patient. Blood analysis would be expected to show persistent lymphocytosis with smudge cells and thrombocytopenia in contrast to this patient's lab findings. Moreover, CLL is not associated with the BCR-ABL fusion protein.

Image File: 248-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d953e132c.jpg

**D - Polycythemia vera** - Polycythemia vera may present with constitutional symptoms and splenomegaly as seen in this patient. However, signs of anemia would not be expected, since this condition is characterized by elevated levels of all cell lines. Consequently, symptoms such as plethora, hyperviscosity syndrome, and pruritus are common. As a myeloproliferative disorder, polycythemia vera is almost always caused by JAK2 mutations but is not associated with the BCR-ABL fusion protein. Moreover, LAP would be high, and a blood smear would not show intermediate forms of leukocytes.

**E - Essential thrombocythemia** - Essential thrombocythemia presents with thrombocytosis and splenomegaly as seen in this patient. However, extreme leukocytosis with a presence of progenitor cells on peripheral smear would not be expected. Moreover, this condition typically causes recurrent thromboembolic events, vasomotor symptoms, acute gouty arthritis, and petechial bleeding. As a myeloproliferative disorder, essential thrombocythemia is commonly caused by JAK2 mutations but is not associated with the BCR-ABL fusion protein.

**G - Acute promyelocytic leukemia** - Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), the M3 subtype of acute myeloid leukemia (AML), may manifest similarly to this patient's presentation with splenomegaly and signs of anemia such as fatigue and conjunctival pallor. However, thrombocytosis and extreme leukocytosis with the presence of progenitor cells would not be expected on lab analysis. In contrast, APL is characterized by a leukemic hiatus and Auer rods on blood smear. Moreover, it is not associated with the BCR-ABL fusion protein.

Image File: 248-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5911be8aa9fbd.jpg

