### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Renal papillary necrosis** - Sickle cell trait is associated with renal papillary necrosis secondary to transient sickling of RBCs in the renal capillaries, which results in microthrombotic infarctions and sloughing of necrotic papillae. Renal papillary necrosis can lead to hyposthenuria (indicated by this patient's nocturia) and painless gross hematuria. Hematuria is the most common clinical finding in individuals with sickle cell trait. Other complications associated with sickle cell trait include urinary tract infections, chronic kidney disease, and renal medullary carcinoma, which can also present with painless gross hematuria.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Avascular osteonecrosis** - Patients with SCD are at increased risk for avascular osteonecrosis due to vaso-occlusion from sickle cell build-up. Avascular osteonecrosis is characterized by infarction of the bone and marrow and most commonly affects the head of the femur and humerus. However, in patients with sickle cell trait, as seen here, avascular osteonecrosis is very rare, making a different complication more likely.

**B - Clear cell renal carcinoma** - Clear cell renal carcinoma is the most common histological variant of renal cell carcinoma. Sickle cell trait, however, is associated with renal medullary carcinoma, a rare but aggressive type of non-clear cell renal cancer. Renal medullary carcinoma has a very poor prognosis and almost exclusively occurs in young individuals with sickle cell trait.

**D - Functional asplenia** - Patients with SCD typically develop functional asplenia by the age of 4 years because of repeated infarction secondary to vaso-occlusion from sickle cell build-up (autosplenectomy). In these patients, Howell-Jolly bodies are a characteristic finding on peripheral blood smear. However, in patients with sickle cell trait, splenic infarctions are rare and mainly associated with high altitude exposure, making a different complication more likely.

**E - Cholelithiasis** - Patients with sickle cell disease are at increased risk of cholelithiasis with pigmented gallstones because chronic hemolysis often leads to hypersaturation and precipitation of bilirubin. Compared to individuals with SCD, however, individuals with sickle cell trait have less severe hemolysis, which typically does not lead to formation of pigmented gall stones and/or anemia.

**F - Congestive heart failure** - Patients with SCD are at increased risk of developing cardiomyopathy and heart failure due to other SCD-associated conditions, including pulmonary hypertension and chronic hypoxemia. Sickle cell trait, however, is not associated with an increased risk of CHF.

**G - Erectile dysfunction** - Patients with SCD are at increased risk for priapism and resulting erectile dysfunction. Although cases of priapism have been described in patients with sickle cell trait, heterozygous carriers of the sickle cell allele are at higher risk of a different complication.

**H - Ischemic stroke** - Patients with sickle cell disease are at increased risk for ischemic strokes secondary to vaso-occlusion from sickle cell build-up. Individuals with sickle cell trait, however, are at higher risk of a different complication.

