### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Schizoid personality disorder** - This patient has signs of social withdrawal, a preference for solitary activities, and flattened affect, all of which are features of schizoid personality disorder. Individuals with schizoid personality disorder neither desire nor enjoy close relationships. They show little interest in interpersonal or sexual contact and often appear indifferent or emotionally cold towards others. Of note, the DSM-5 states that personality disorders can be diagnosed in patients < 18 years of age if features have been present for ≥ 1 year. The only exception to this rule is antisocial personality disorder, which can only be diagnosed in patients ≥ 18 years of age.

Personality disorders are characterized by pervasive, inflexible, and maladaptive patterns of relating to and perceiving one's self and one's environment that cause significant distress and/or functional impairment. These patterns typically arise during early adolescence, remain stable over time, and are difficult to treat. Treatment options include psychoeducation, psychotherapy, dialectical behavior therapy, group therapy, and/or cognitive therapy.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Schizotypal personality disorder** - Schizotypal personality disorder is characterized by constricted affect and a lack of close friends due to acute discomfort in social interactions and impaired capacity for close relationships. However, further symptoms include distortions of perception and cognition (e.g., magical thinking, superstitions), as well as eccentric behavior (e.g., peculiar speech), which are not present in this patient.

**B - Schizophreniform disorder** - Schizophreniform disorder is diagnosed in patients who present with delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, and/or negative symptoms that last for more than 1 month but less than 6 months. This patient presents with different symptoms that have been affecting him for over 6 months.

**D - Antisocial personality disorder** - Antisocial personality disorder is characterized by lack of empathy and incapacity for intimacy, as seen in this patient. However, patients are also prone to deceitful, manipulative, and impulsive behavior and they disregard laws and ethical norms if this provides them personal profit or pleasure. Furthermore, the diagnosis can only be made if the individual is ≥ 18 years of age and there is evidence of conduct disorder prior to 15 years of age.

**E - Avoidant personality disorder** - Individuals with avoidant personality disorder tend to avoid social interactions, as this patient does, but they do this in spite of a wish to establish social relationships because of extreme anxiety and shyness in social situations brought on by feelings of inadequacy and fear of rejection. This patient does not have an inhibited desire to establish personal relationships.

**F - Autism spectrum disorder** - Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is characterized by impaired social interaction and communication as well as stereotyped behavior, interests, and activities. Reduced ability for empathy and response in social situations, as seen in this patient, could raise the suspicion of ASD, but symptoms of this disorder are typically recognized in early childhood (2–3 years of age) rather than adolescence.

**G - Social anxiety disorder** - Social anxiety disorder is characterized by pronounced anxiety and avoidance of social situations that lasts ≥ 6 months. It often develops during adolescence and early adulthood, when patients develop a fear of becoming scrutinized in social situations such as speaking or eating in public. While this patient avoids social interaction, there are no signs to suggest that he is driven to do so by social anxiety or that he suffers from his isolation.

**H - Internet gaming disorder** - Internet gaming disorder is included in the DSM-5 under the chapter “Conditions for further study”. While this patient might meet the proposed criterion of a preoccupation with internet games, his involvement in gaming is below the threshold of the other criteria (e.g., withdrawal symptoms, tolerance, unsuccessful attempts to control gaming habit) and his other symptoms rather suggest a different diagnosis.

**I - Paranoid personality disorder** - Individuals with paranoid personality disorder tend to be socially withdrawn, as this patient is, but they are withdrawn due to a severe distrust and suspiciousness rooted in the notion that others harbor malicious intentions against them. They often perceive even insignificant incidents as directed against them and are quick to perceive attacks on their character that are not apparent to others.

