### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Acute myelocytic leukemia** - Acute myelocytic leukemia (AML) develops in up to 30% of patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). The two conditions are distinguished based on the blast percentage in the bone marrow (blast percentage > 20% in AML) and the presence of AML-related chromosomal abnormalities in pluripotent stem cells. Patients with MDS that progresses to AML have a worse prognosis because they are not as responsive to chemotherapy (compared to patients with de novo AML).

Image File: 250-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9287d9b2.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Sézary syndrome** - Sézary syndrome is a cutaneous non-Hodgkin lymphoma that can present secondary to mycosis fungoides. Although anemia can occur, other features such as hepatosplenomegaly, generalized lymphadenopathy and leukemic dissemination would also be expected. More importantly, this is a cutaneous lymphoma, so these findings would be preceded by intensely pruritic erythroderma accompanied by palmar and plantar hyperkeratosis. Atypical T cells would be present on peripheral blood smear instead of ringed sideroblasts. Sézary syndrome is not associated with myelodysplastic syndrome.

Image File: 250-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9531430a.jpg

**B - Chronic lymphocytic leukemia** - Chronic lymphocytic leukemia primarily occurs in older patients (> 70 years) and could explain this patient's anemia. However, CLL more commonly presents with a more insidious onset of B symptoms, hepatosplenomegaly, and painless lymphadenopathy and is not associated with myelodysplastic syndrome. Predisposing factors include positive family history, advanced age, and exposure to organic solvents. Bone marrow biopsy of patients with CLL would reveal lymphocytosis and characteristic smudge cells rather than ringed sideroblasts. CLL can transform into DLBCL (Richter transformation) and in rare cases, AML may arise in patients who have been treated for CLL.

**C - Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma** - Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), the most common non-Hodgkin lymphoma in adults, can occur spontaneously or secondary to numerous low-grade B-cell lymphomas (e.g., CLL). Like this patient, patients with DLBCL are of advanced age (> 70 years) and present with a rapidly enlarging mass within the lymph system. However, B symptoms (weight loss, fever, night sweats) and painless lymphadenopathy would be more typical. In addition, DLBCL would not cause ringed sideroblasts and does not occur in association with myelodysplastic syndrome.

**E - Multiple myeloma** - Multiple myeloma (MM) can develop secondary to monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS), which is diagnosed in asymptomatic patients with elevated serum monoclonal immunoglobulins (>3 g/dL). Approximately 1% of patients with MGUS progress to MM annually. Anemia could be an early sign of MM. However, other findings, such as bone pain, symptoms of hypercalcemia, and foamy urine, would also be expected.

**F - Hairy cell leukemia** - Although hairy cell leukemia (HCL) could be responsible for this woman's anemia, patients usually also present with symptoms of massive splenomegaly, as well as thrombocytopenia and neutropenia (multiple cells lines are affected). HCL is associated with exposure to ionizing radiation and pesticides, but not with myelodysplastic syndrome.

