### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - A** - The increased risk of bleeding in uremia is due to platelet aggregation dysfunction. While the pathomechanism is not fully understood, it is believed that uremia causes intrinsic dysfunction of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa as well as an increase in NO levels, which leads to an increase in cyclic GMP and reductions in thromboxane A2 and ADP levels leading to impaired platelet adhesion and aggregation. Platelet dysfunction results in prolonged bleeding time with normal platelet count. An altered PTT and PT would be seen with coagulation factor defects, which are not caused by chronic kidney disease.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - B** - Increased PTT and bleeding time with normal PT and platelet count is consistent with von Willebrand disease, an autosomal dominant disease characterized by a deficiency of von Willebrand factor. vWD is usually asymptomatic, but ecchymoses can be seen in severe vWD. Uremia does not cause a deficiency in vWF.

**C - C** - Increased PTT and PT with normal bleeding time and platelet count are consistent with a general coagulation defect (e.g., severe vitamin K deficiency, hepatic failure, warfarin overdose). Uremia would cause a different set of findings.

**D - D** - Increased PT, PTT, and bleeding time with a decreased platelet count is consistent with disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), a condition characterized by systemic activation of the clotting cascade, platelet consumption, and subsequent exhaustion of clotting factors that leads to widespread thrombosis and hemorrhage. However, DIC is associated with trauma, shock, and sepsis, none of which are seen here. Uremia does not cause DIC.

**E - E** - Increased PTT with normal PT, platelet count, and bleeding time is consistent with a defect in the intrinsic coagulation pathway (e.g., hemophilia, antiphospholipid antibody syndrome). Uremia does not cause a defect in the intrinsic coagulation pathway.

**F - F** - Increased PT with normal PTT, platelet count, and bleeding time is consistent with a defect in the extrinsic coagulation pathway, (e.g., vitamin K deficiency, warfarin therapy, factor VII deficiency). Uremia does not cause a defect in the extrinsic coagulation pathway.

