### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - A** - Anemia of chronic disease (ACD) is caused by decreased erythropoiesis despite adequate iron stores. Chronic disease causes chronic inflammation with a consequent increase in cytokine (e.g., IL-6) and hepcidin release. These transmitters increase intracellular iron retention in macrophages and decrease intestinal iron absorption. As a result, serum iron levels and, consequently, transferrin saturation decrease. Transferrin, which is a negative inflammatory marker, can also be reduced in inflammation, indicated by a low total iron binding capacity. Furthermore, the involved cytokines increase the transcription of acute phase reactant ferritin, resulting in high serum ferritin levels. Finally, these cytokines also inhibit erythropoiesis in the bone marrow, resulting in a low reticulocyte count. Expression of the transferrin receptor (TfR) is not affected in ACD and soluble TfR concentration remains normal.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - B** - These findings indicate iron deficiency anemia, which can also manifest with normocytic anemia, especially in the early stages, and a low reticulocyte count due to decreased erythropoiesis. However, in iron deficiency anemia, iron stores in the bone marrow are typically decreased and RDW is increased.

**C - C** - These findings can be seen in pregnant women. Pregnancy leads to dilutional, normocytic anemia and increased transferrin production, resulting in an increased total iron binding capacity along with decreased transferrin saturation and normal ferritin and serum iron levels. Soluble transferrin receptor concentration increases slightly in the second and third trimester but still remains within the reference range in normal pregnancy.

**D - D** - These findings suggest iron overload, which increases iron storage in bone marrow macrophages, similar to what is seen here. The constellation of iron overload with anemia occurs in sideroblastic anemia and secondary hemochromatosis (e.g., due to thalassemia or transfusion-dependent hemolytic anemia). Sideroblastic anemia typically causes microcytic anemia, basophilic stippling of erythrocytes on a peripheral blood smear, and an increased RDW, none of which are seen here. Furthermore, this patient does not have a history of thalassemia or repeated transfusions to suggest secondary hemochromatosis.

