### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - All-trans retinoic acid** - Retinoic acid plays an important role in cell differentiation. A t(15;17) translocation, which occurs in acute myelogenous leukemia variant M3 (acute promyelocytic leukemia), changes the retinoic acid receptor so that granulocyte differentiation cannot occur under physiologic levels of retinoic acid. High doses of all-trans retinoic acid can therefore induce remission by causing malignant cells to mature.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Rituximab** - Rituximab can be used in the treatment of various conditions, including targeting therapy in individuals with CD20-positive chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Typical clinical findings in CLL include B symptoms, splenomegaly, and painless lymphadenopathy. CLL is typically a disease of the elderly, and laboratory studies would show extreme leukocytosis. This patient is middle-aged, however, and his leukocyte count is regular. Furthermore, CLL could not explain the reciprocal translocation of chromosomes 15 and 17 in his leukocytes.

**B - Cyclophosphamide** - Cyclophosphamide is used for induction therapy in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and other conditions requiring myelosuppression, such as autoimmune diseases. Alkylating agents such as cyclophosphamide may increase the risk of developing AML, but they are usually not part of first-line treatment in patients with acute leukemias.

**D - Platelet transfusion** - Platelet transfusion would be indicated in the case of serious bleeding with a platelet count < 50,000/mm3 and in asymptomatic patients with a platelet count < 10,000/mm3, neither of which is the case here.

**E - Cryoprecipitate transfusion** - This patient shows easy bruising and decreased levels of fibrinogen, which indicates coagulopathy. Cryoprecipitate transfusion should be performed if the fibrinogen level is < 100 mg/dL, or > 100 mg/dL with significant elevation of aPTT or PT, neither of which has been tested in this patient.

**F - Imatinib** - The tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib is appropriate as first-line targeted therapy for patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). CML may present with splenomegaly and B symptoms, as seen here. However, in > 90% of cases, CML is caused by a chromosomal t(9;22) translocation, also known as the Philadelphia chromosome, rather than a chromosomal t(15;17) translocation.

