### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Use of mosquito repellant** - Microcephaly, spasticity, sensorineural hearing loss, and pigmentary retinal mottling in this newborn indicate congenital Zika syndrome. The newborn's mother most likely contracted the Zika virus (in the first trimester of pregnancy) during her visit to Brazil. The best preventive measure against the virus for a pregnant woman is to avoid travel to endemic areas. If such travel is necessary during pregnancy, the use of mosquito repellent, mosquito nets, and long-sleeved, light-colored clothing help to prevent transmission. For individuals with known Zika infection, barrier contraception should be used to prevent virus transmission via semen.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Avoid consumption of undercooked meat** - Avoiding the consumption of undercooked meat reduces a person's risk of contracting toxoplasmosis. This infection can be transmitted to the fetus during pregnancy. Although congenital toxoplasmosis can cause microcephaly, other typical features of the disease are absent in this patient, including chorioretinitis, diffuse intracranial calcifications, and hydrocephalus. Moreover, spasticity, sensorineural hearing loss, and pigmentary retinal mottled are not consistent with congenital toxoplasmosis.

**B - Administration of vaccine** - Congenital rubella is a TORCH infection that can be prevented with vaccination. This condition can result in microcephaly, hearing loss, and vision impairment, which are similar to the features seen in this newborn. However, rubella infection does not typically manifest with spasticity or retinal mottling. In addition, the MMR vaccine cannot be administered during pregnancy because it is a live attenuated vaccine.

**D - Administration of antibiotic therapy** - Pregnant women that test positive for syphilis should receive antibiotic therapy (penicillin G) to avoid vertical transmission to the fetus (i.e., congenital syphilis). The risk of disease transmission increases with advanced gestation, although it can be transmitted at any time throughout pregnancy. Congenital syphilis typically manifests with hepatomegaly, jaundice, rhinorrhea, anemia, a maculopapular rash on the palms and soles, and generalized lymphadenopathy. Microcephaly, spasticity, sensorineural hearing loss, and pigmentary retinal mottling are not typical features of congenital syphilis.

**E - Daily intake of prenatal vitamins** - Daily intake of prenatal vitamins can prevent folate deficiency, which is associated with neural tube defects (e.g., spina bifida) in pregnancy. Neural tube defects can result in malformations of the spinal cord (e.g., spina bifida, meningocele) or cranial defects (e.g., anencephaly), but would not explain this newborn's microcephaly, spasticity, sensorineural hearing loss, and pigmentary retinal mottling.

**F - Discontinuation of mood stabilizer** - Discontinuation of mood-stabilizing medication (e.g., lithium) can prevent the development of Ebstein anomaly. This condition can manifest within the first trimester of pregnancy with cyanosis and a tricuspid regurgitation murmur on physical examination. Microcephaly, spasticity, sensorineural hearing loss, and pigmentary retinal mottling are not seen in Ebstein anomaly.

