### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Lymphocyte-rich classical type tumor** - Lymphocyte-rich classical Hodgkin lymphoma (∼ 5% of cases of classical Hodgkin lymphoma) has the best prognosis of all types of classical Hodgkin lymphoma. Nodular lymphocyte predominant HL (NLPHL) (∼ 5% of all cases of Hodgkin lymphoma), a type of lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin lymphoma, has a similar prognosis but relapses more frequently. In contrast, lymphocyte-depleted HL (LDHL) is a very rare (< 1%) but aggressive type of HL that is associated with a poor prognosis. Other unfavorable features include male sex, age > 45 years, stage IV disease, involvement of three or more lymph node areas, hemoglobin concentration < 10.5 g/dl, and albumin concentration < 4 g/dL.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Mediastinal tumor occupying 45% of the chest width** - A mediastinal tumor that occupies > 33% of the chest width (mediastinal bulky disease) is associated with a poor prognosis for patients with Hodgkin lymphoma. Initial presentation with a mediastinal mass most commonly occurs in children (up to 75% of cases). Mediastinal bulky disease may be asymptomatic. Alternatively, compression or invasion of neighboring structures may cause localizing symptoms such as cough, dyspnea, dysphagia, pleural and pericardial effusions, and, rarely, superior vena cava syndrome.

**B - Axillary tumor measuring 15 cm across** - A nonmediastinal tumor measuring ≥ 10 cm across (nonmediastinal bulky disease) is associated with a poor prognosis for patients with Hodgkin lymphoma.

**C - Erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 65 mm/h** - An elevated ESR (≥ 50 mm/h in patients without B symptoms or any ESR value in patients with B symptoms is associated with a poor prognosis in patients with Hodgkin lymphoma.

**D - Leukocyte count of 22,000/mm3** - A leukocyte count ≥ 15,000/mm3 is associated with a poor prognosis for patients with Hodgkin lymphoma. Leukocytosis is one of the unfavorable factors included in the international prognostic score (IPS), which is used to evaluate the prognosis for patients with advanced disease.

