### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Physiological neonatal jaundice** - Physiological neonatal jaundice is a common condition that manifests between the 3rd and 8th day of life with jaundice and mild indirect hyperbilirubinemia in an otherwise healthy newborn, as seen here. It is caused by several components of bilirubin metabolism in newborns, including immaturity of the pathways for hepatic conjugation and elimination (due to decreased activity of the enzyme UDP-glucuronosyltransferase), increased enterohepatic circulation of bilirubin (due to low bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract and certain breast milk components), and the short life span of erythrocytes in newborns. Treatment of neonatal jaundice by phototherapy is indicated if bilirubin levels increase above a defined threshold.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Congenital hypothyroidism** - Congenital hypothyroidism is associated with decreased bilirubin clearance, which can lead to indirect hyperbilirubinemia and neonatal jaundice, both of which are seen here. However, further typical manifestations of congenital hypothyroidism include umbilical hernia, large fontanelles, hypotonia, dry skin, and hypothermia, none of which are seen in this newborn. In addition, his normal free T4 levels exclude this diagnosis.

**B - Rhesus incompatibility** - Rhesus incompatibility leading to immune-mediated hemolysis (also known as hemolytic disease of the fetus and newborn; HDFN) is an uncommon cause of neonatal jaundice in contemporary practice, largely because of the widespread use of anti-D immunoglobulin. This condition most often causes jaundice and severe indirect hyperbilirubinemia that appear within the first 24 hours of life. Although this newborn's incompatibility with his mother's Rhesus type puts him at risk for HDFN, his normal hemoglobin and low reticulocyte count make hemolysis unlikely.

**C - Dubin-Johnson syndrome** - Dubin-Johnson syndrome is caused by defects in the biliary transport protein MRP2. Although patients with this condition can develop hyperbilirubinemia and jaundice, the onset of symptoms usually occurs during adolescence. In addition, laboratory studies in patients with Dubin-Johnson syndrome show direct hyperbilirubinemia caused by defective excretion of conjugated bilirubin, not the indirect hyperbilirubinemia seen in this newborn.

**E - Breastfeeding jaundice** - Breastfeeding jaundice is caused by insufficient breast milk intake and manifests with indirect hyperbilirubinemia and jaundice in the first week of life, both of which are seen in this neonate. However, newborns with breastfeeding jaundice usually also show signs of dehydration (e.g., few wet diapers), irritability, and weight loss, none of which are present here. Moreover, the mother reports breastfeeding her son frequently (every 2–3 hours) without difficulty, making insufficient breastfeeding an unlikely cause of his jaundice.

**F - Biliary atresia** - Biliary atresia leads to neonatal jaundice by blocking the excretion of bile into the intestines and causing direct bilirubin to be returned to circulation. This condition manifests with direct hyperbilirubinemia rather than the indirect hyperbilirubinemia seen in this newborn. In addition, biliary atresia causes acholic stools (because bilirubin does not reach the intestine to be converted to urobilin and stercobilin) and dark urine (due to excretion of bilirubin via the urine), neither of which are seen here.

**G - ABO hemolytic disease of the newborn** - ABO hemolytic disease of the newborn is caused by ABO incompatibility, which leads to immune-mediated hemolysis. This disease typically results in mild indirect hyperbilirubinemia and neonatal jaundice, which is seen here. ABO hemolytic disease of the newborn usually becomes evident, however, within the first 24 hours of life and almost exclusively occurs in newborns with blood type A or B whose mother's blood type is O. Since this newborn's blood type is O, his erythrocytes do not express AB antigens that could be bound by maternal antibodies. In addition, his normal hemoglobin and low reticulocyte count make hemolysis unlikely.

