### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Peroxidase-positive granules** - Myeloperoxidase, found in peroxidase-positive granules, is a typical finding in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and differentiates it from ALL, which is myeloperoxidase negative. AML typically presents with symptoms related to anemia (fatigue, weakness), thrombocytopenia (bleeding, petechiae), and/or neutropenia (increased susceptibility to infections). While Auer rods may be present in all types of AML, they are particularly common in the M3 subtype (acute promyelocytic leukemia).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Translocation t(9;22)** - A translocation between chromosome 9 and chromosome 22, which creates a Philadelphia chromosome t(9;22), is most common in chronic myeloid leukemia and is only seen in ∼ 20% of adult patients with AML. AML, and particularly the M3 subtype of this patient, is rather associated with a translocation between chromosomes 15 and 17.

**B - Positive heterophile antibody test** - A positive heterophile antibody test would suggest infectious mononucleosis (IM), which can also present with fatigue and abnormal leukocytes on a peripheral blood smear. However, the typical finding in IM would be atypical lymphocytes rather than the myeloblasts with Auer rods that are seen on this patient's bone marrow smear. More importantly, this patient does not have any of the typical symptoms of IM, such as fever, pharyngitis, splenomegaly, or lymphadenopathy. Furthermore, IM does not cause gingival bleeding, petechiae, or weight loss.

Image File: 263-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5911df7cb371d.jpg

**D - Cold agglutinin antibodies** - Cold agglutinin antibodies are pathognomonic for cold agglutinin disease, a type of autoimmune hemolytic anemia. The disease is associated with malignancy, such as non-Hodgkin lymphoma and certain infections, including hepatitis C and infection with Mycoplasma pneumoniae, but not AML. Furthermore, this patient lacks the hallmark sign of cold agglutinin disease, which is acrocyanosis.

**E - Follicular hyperkeratosis** - Follicular hyperkeratosis is a typical finding in vitamin C deficiency (scurvy). Vitamin C deficiency causes swollen gums and gingival bleeding, which is also present in this patient. However, it would not explain any of his other findings.

