### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura** - Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is caused by a congenital deficiency of or antibodies against ADAMTS13, which normally cleaves large vWF multimers. The persistence of large VWF molecules in patients with TTP causes increased platelet adhesion and aggregation, resulting in microthrombi formation and consumption of platelets. This leads to a pentad of findings, which can be remembered with the mnemonic “Nasty Fever Ruined My Tubes”: N – Neurological symptoms (e.g., headache), F – Fever, R – Renal involvement (proteinuria, hematuria), M – Microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (e.g., ↓ Hb, ↑ LDH, indirect hyperbilirubinemia, schistocytes), T – Thrombocytopenia with bleeding manifestations (petechiae, bleeding gums, occult GI bleeding). Pregnancy is a known risk factor for TTP.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - HELLP syndrome** - HELLP syndrome occurs during pregnancy, and would result in headache, nausea, abdominal discomfort, features of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (e.g., ↓ Hb, ↑ LDH, indirect hyperbilirubinemia, schistocytes), thrombocytopenia, mucocutaneous bleeding, and proteinuria. Patients may also occasionally be febrile. However, HELLP syndrome typically occurs during the second or third trimester and is usually associated with gestational hypertension (BP > 140/90 mm Hg). Moreover, as the acronym suggests, evidence of hepatocellular damage (e.g.,↑ ALT, AST) would be present.

**B - Dengue hemorrhagic fever** - A history of recent travel to an endemic region (e.g., Sri Lanka) is a risk factor for dengue, which can result in fever, headache, nausea, abdominal discomfort, thrombocytopenia with mucocutaneous bleeding (including occult GI hemorrhage), icterus with ↑ LDH (due to hepatocellular damage), microscopic hematuria, and proteinuria. However, ↓ HgB, indirect hyperbilirubinemia, normal levels of AST/ALT, and the presence of schistocytes indicate that the cause of icterus and increased LDH is not hepatocellular damage but hemolysis, which is quite rare in dengue. Moreover, the incubation period of dengue is less than 14 days; the onset of symptoms more than 2 weeks after the patient departed from the endemic region indicates a different cause.

**D - Hemolytic uremic syndrome** - Patients with HUS present with fever, headache, nausea, abdominal discomfort, findings of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (e.g., ↓ Hb, ↑ LDH, indirect hyperbilirubinemia, schistocytes), thrombocytopenia with mucocutaneous bleeding (due to microthrombi formation and consumption of platelets), and features of acute glomerular injury (↑ serum creatinine with proteinuria and hematuria). However, HUS typically occurs in children and would usually be preceded by a history of diarrhea (due to EHEC or Shigella infection).

**E - Disseminated intravascular coagulation** - Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) is associated with fever, headache, nausea, abdominal discomfort, findings of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (e.g., ↓ Hb, ↑ LDH, indirect hyperbilirubinemia, schistocytes), thrombocytopenia with mucocutaneous bleeding (including occult GI hemorrhage), and features of acute glomerular injury (↑ serum creatinine with proteinuria and hematuria). In DIC, however, serum FDP levels as well as PT/INR would be increased because coagulation factors are also consumed. Moreover, patients with DIC are usually hypotensive and very sick.

**F - Immune thrombocytopenic purpura** - ITP is associated with thrombocytopenia, petechiae, and gum bleeds. Positive stool occult blood tests and microscopic hematuria have also been occasionally reported in patients with ITP. However, the degree of mucosal bleeding is usually not severe enough to cause anemia, and features of hemolysis (e.g., ↑ LDH, indirect hyperbilirubinemia) or glomerular injury (e.g., ↑ serum creatinine, proteinuria) would not be expected. Moreover, acute ITP typically occurs in children and does not cause symptoms such as fever, headache, nausea, or abdominal discomfort. The peripheral smear may show large platelets or clumping of platelets, but all blood cells would have a normal morphology.

**G - Autoimmune hemolytic anemia** - AIHA would result in pallor, icterus, ↑ LDH, and indirect hyperbilirubinemia. Levels of LDH that are nearly 10 times the normal value, which is typical for intravascular hemolysis, can cause an increase in creatinine (due to acute tubular necrosis) and manifests with hemoglobinuria. Also, severe, acute hemolysis in patients with AIHA can occasionally result in fever, headache, nausea, and/or abdominal discomfort. However, thrombocytopenia, mucocutaneous bleeding, and features of glomerular injury (e.g., ↑ serum creatinine, proteinuria, and hematuria) would not be expected, Rarely, ITP manifests concurrently with AIHA (Evan syndrome), resulting in severe thrombocytopenia, petechiae, and mucocutaneous bleeding, but the Coombs test would be positive.

