### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Decreased time between S2 and opening snap** - A decrease in the time between the aortic component of S2 and the opening snap (OS) occurs due to increasing left atrial pressure (LAP) brought on by worsening mitral stenosis (MS). The greater the LAP, the faster the acceleration of valve leaflets to the maximal point of opening, and the sooner the opening snap occurs after S2. The most common cause of MS in developing countries is rheumatic fever.

Image File: 266-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb87d493973.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Presence of a mid-systolic click** - The presence of a mid-systolic click followed by a late systolic murmur is associated with mitral valve prolapse. The click occurs as the chordae tendinae anchoring the prolapsed valve leaflet reach their maximum length and snap tight. However, this patient's echocardiography findings are consistent with mitral stenosis, which does not manifest with a mid-systolic click.

**C - Radiation of murmur to the axilla** - Radiation of a murmur to the axilla is most noticeable in mitral regurgitation. However, this patient's echocardiography is consistent with mitral stenosis, which is best heard from the apex and is not known to radiate.

**D - Increased intensity of the murmur** - An increased intensity of a murmur is correlated with increased disease severity in conditions such as mitral regurgitation or tricuspid regurgitation. However, this patient's echocardiography findings are consistent with mitral stenosis, in which murmur intensity has no correlation with disease severity. In patients with very severe mitral stenosis the murmur may even be inaudible due to the severe limitation of blood flow across the stenotic valve.

**E - Absence of A2 heart sound** - Absence of the A2 component of the S2 heart sound can be a sign of worsening aortic stenosis. S2 is comprised of a louder aortic contribution (A2) and a softer pulmonary contribution (P2). As stenosis of the aortic semilunar valves worsens, the A2 diminishes until it is no longer audible. However, this patient's echocardiography is consistent with mitral stenosis, in which there is no change in S2 as the disease increases in severity.

