### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Recurrent pulmonary embolism** - This patient has chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH), which can manifest with cor pulmonale, as seen here. CTEPH can result from single or recurrent episodes of pulmonary embolism and should be suspected when pulmonary hypertension (PH) is diagnosed, especially in patients with risk factors for venous thromboembolism (e.g., malignancy, recent surgery). Decreased vascular markings on chest x-ray (i.e., Westermark sign) and bruits over the lung fields (i.e., flow murmurs over obstructed lung vessels) indicate diffuse pulmonary hypoperfusion and are characteristic of CTEPH. V/Q lung scan should be performed to differentiate CTEPH from pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), the two most likely diagnoses in this setting. Although this patient directly underwent right heart catheterization, this study is usually performed along with pulmonary angiography to confirm the diagnosis. Treatment of CTEPH involves life-long anticoagulation and pulmonary thromboendarterectomy in suitable patients.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hereditary proliferative vasculopathy** - Hereditary proliferative vasculopathy is a cause of PH (specifically pulmonary arterial hypertension) and right heart failure. However, this condition typically presents in young adults. Malignancy and recent surgery in this elderly patient with bruits over the lung fields make another diagnosis more likely.

**C - Serotonin-producing hepatic metastases** - Serotonin-producing (e.g., carcinoid) tumors that metastasize to the liver or are located in the lung can induce carcinoid syndrome, which can manifest with shortness of breath (due to bronchospasm) and right-sided heart valve disease (e.g., tricuspid insufficiency), both of which are seen here. Carcinoids can arise from the stomach but most commonly appear in the small intestine and appendix. Although carcinoid heart disease may cause pulmonary stenosis, pulmonary hypertension is a rare manifestation. Moreover, this patient lacks other symptoms characteristic of carcinoid syndrome (e.g., diarrhea, flushing).

**D - Hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction** - Hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction is the cause of PH and cor pulmonale in patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and chronic lung diseases such as COPD and interstitial lung disease (ILD). Chemotherapy regimens for gastric cancer may include taxanes (e.g., docetaxel), which can induce pulmonary fibrosis, a type of ILD. However, these etiologies are unlikely in this patient who is a nonsmoker, not obese, has normal oxygen saturation and spirometry results, and lacks evidence of lung parenchymal disease on chest x-ray. This patient's malignancy, recent surgery, and bruits over the lung fields make another diagnosis more likely.

**E - Chemotherapy-induced cardiomyopathy** - Chemotherapy-induced dilated cardiomyopathy can be induced by anthracyclines (e.g., doxorubicin), which are commonly used to treat gastric cancer. Affected individuals present with worsening dyspnea, similar to this patient. However, left-ventricular systolic dysfunction is often present, and symptomatic patients tend to have reduced ejection fraction, which is not consistent with the normal PCWP, absence of pulmonary edema on CXR, and absence of LV dilation on echo in this patient.

