### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Arterial embolism** - Acute limb ischemia is most commonly due to thrombosis of a previously patent artery but can also result from an embolus (second most common cause), dissection, trauma, and stent or graft occlusion. Sudden onset of pain, paresthesia, and weakness in a patient with no prior history of claudication or trauma makes arterial embolization the most likely underlying cause. Most emboli originate from thrombus formation in the heart, a complication of incomplete atrial/ventricular emptying in cardiac arrhythmias (e.g., atrial fibrillation), valvular heart disease, or ventricular aneurysms (e.g., following recent anterior MI).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Venous thrombosis** - Acute deep vein thrombosis of the lower limb can present with sudden unilateral leg pain and is usually associated with swelling. Although this patient has several risk factors for DVT (e.g., obesity, sedentary lifestyle, advanced age, smoking), his clinical features of pallor, muscle weakness, and absent pulses are not consistent with DVT.

Image File: 269-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58a30fc375e6f.jpg

**B - Arterial vasospasm** - Raynaud phenomenon is caused by abnormal vasospasm in response to stress or cold and may present with pale and cold extremities. It is associated with connective tissue disorders, such as SLE or systemic sclerosis. This patient's family history of systemic sclerosis is a risk factor for him developing the disease. In contrast to this patient, Raynaud phenomenon usually affects the small, distal arteries (e.g., digital arteries) and typically has a symmetric distribution.

Image File: 269-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5551a0f87eef1.jpg

**C - Popliteal artery aneurysm** - Popliteal artery aneurysm (PAA) is the second most common type of arterial aneurysm (after abdominal aortic aneurysm) but is overall a rare disease. PAA most commonly presents with chronic ischemia (claudication), but it can present with acute limb ischemia if sudden thrombosis or distal embolization occurs. While this patient has risk factors for aneurysm (e.g., hypertension, smoking) and a popliteal aneurysm cannot be entirely excluded without further diagnostics, a different etiology is more likely.

**D - Atherosclerotic narrowing of the artery** - Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is an insidious, chronic condition that is due to the narrowing of peripheral arteries by atherosclerotic plaques. This patient's history of smoking, hypertension, and type 2 diabetes mellitus put him at increased risk of developing this condition. However, PAD typically is asymptomatic or presents with progressive exertional limb pain that is relieved by rest (claudication). PAD rarely progresses to acute limb ischemia and would not present as acutely as in this patient.

**E - Inflammation-induced thrombosis** - Vasculitis and subsequent thrombosis of medium-sized arteries describe the underlying pathogenesis of thromboangiitis obliterans (TAO), which can present with limb pain, paresthesia, and absent pulses. However, the onset of TAO is insidious and it typically affects younger smokers (< 45 years). This patient presents with acute onset of unilateral leg pain with no preceding symptoms and no evidence of chronic arterial insufficiency, making TAO an unlikely diagnosis.

**G - Atheroembolism** - Atheroembolism refers to the embolization of cholesterol and atherosclerotic debris, usually to small or medium-sized arteries. It is rare and most frequently occurs as a result of endovascular intervention (e.g., cardiac catheterization, valve replacement, angiography). In contrast to this patient, atheroembolism typically causes microvascular ischemia, resulting in insidious organ damage (especially with renal involvement) and/or skin changes (e.g., livedo reticularis, blue toe syndrome). Atheroembolism is not typically associated with acute limb ischemia.

