### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Obtain urine drug screen** - Acute onset of personality and mood changes (e.g, agitation), formication, tachycardia, and hypertension raise suspicion for stimulant intoxication (e.g., cocaine, amphetamines). Other signs and symptoms of stimulant use include mydriasis, psychomotor agitation, nausea, diaphoresis, loss of appetite, weight loss, and neuropsychiatric symptoms (e.g., visual and/or auditory hallucinations, delusions). Urine drug screen is the best initial test to evaluate for potential cocaine and/or amphetamine intoxication or overdose. If urine toxicology findings show stimulant intoxication, treatment (e.g., benzodiazepines) can be initiated to alleviate agitation, reduce sympathomimetic effects, and prevent complications, such as seizures and myocardial infarction.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Obtain CT scan of the head** - Patients with new-onset psychotic symptoms may require neuroimaging (e.g., CT or MRI of the head) to evaluate for stroke, space-occupying lesions, neurodegenerative brain diseases, and/or demyelinating disorders, particularly with concomitant neurological findings (e.g., memory loss, headaches, vomiting, seizures, neurological deficits). However, in a young patient who is alert, oriented, and has no focal neurological deficits, as seen here, neurological disease is not the most likely underlying cause; therefore, a different test should be obtained first.

**C - Obtain electrocardiogram** - Acute onset of personality and mood changes (e.g, agitation), formication, tachycardia, and hypertension raise suspicion for stimulant intoxication (e.g., cocaine, amphetamines). Complications of stimulant drug use include tachyarrhythmias and vasospasm, which are risk factors for myocardial infarction. This patient's vital signs, however, show mild tachycardia and hypertension, which do not require immediate intervention. A different test should be obtained first.

**D - Request psychiatric consultation** - Acute onset of hallucinations raise suspicion for a psychotic disorder. However, psychosis is more commonly associated with auditory hallucinations than tactile hallucinations, which are rare. Moreover, this patient does not display other features of psychosis, such as illusions, delusions, disorganized speech, disorganized behaviors, and negative symptoms. Although individuals with new-onset psychotic symptoms may require psychiatric workup, psychiatric consultation should only be pursued after ruling out other organic disorders that can mimic psychosis.

**E - Obtain serum thyroid function tests** - Agitation, hallucinations, tachycardia, hypertension, warm skin, and a family history of hyperthyroidism may raise suspicion for hyperthyroidism. Patients with new-onset psychotic symptoms and features of hyperthyroidism should have TSH levels checked eventually. However, a different test should be obtained more urgently.

