### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Colonoscopy** - Streptococcus gallolyticus can be found in the normal bowel flora of healthy humans. A link between S. gallolyticus bacteremia, particularly in endocarditis, and colorectal cancer has been well established. However, it remains unclear whether this pathogen is part of the etiology of colorectal malignancies or a consequence of the disease. A colonoscopy is indicated in all patients with S. gallolyticus on blood culture.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Aortic valve replacement** - Indications for aortic valve replacement in IE include severe destruction of the valve, leading to aortic regurgitation and congestive heart failure, persistent infection despite appropriate antibiotic treatment, and infections with difficult-to-treat pathogens (e.g., fungi, resistant organisms), among others. Since this patient has made a full recovery and the repeat echocardiography shows only mild aortic regurgitation, surgery is not indicated at this time.

**B - Warfarin therapy** - Warfarin is used for antithrombotic therapy but it is not required to treat IE. Although indications for anticoagulants (e.g., prosthetic heart valves, atrial fibrillation, venous thromboembolism) are frequently present in patients with IE, none are seen here.

**C - Ciprofloxacin prophylaxis** - Patients with a history of endocarditis should receive antibiotic prophylaxis when undergoing procedures with an increased risk of bacteremia, particularly dental procedures. Antibiotics recommended for prophylaxis include amoxicillin, ampicillin, clarithromycin, and azithromycin. Ciprofloxacin is more commonly used to treat bacterial gastroenteritis and urinary tract infections; it is, therefore, not indicated in this patient.

**D - Implantable defibrillator** - Implantable defibrillators are used to prevent possible sudden cardiac death in patients with an increased risk of ventricular fibrillation (VF) and/or ventricular tachycardia (VT). The most common indications include a history of VF/VT, severe congestive heart failure (CHF), and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. While CHF can occur as a possible complication of IE, this patient shows no clinical signs of heart failure.

**F - CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis** - The finding of Streptococcus gallolyticus bacteremia is associated with colonic malignancies. Although a CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis can be helpful in the detection and staging of colon cancer, it is not the initial test of choice.

**G - Esophagogastroduodenoscopy** - An esophagogastroduodenoscopy can be used to detect malignancies and other diseases in the upper gastrointestinal tract. The finding of S. gallolyticus bacteremia, however, is associated with malignancies in the lower intestines.

