### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Streptococcus sanguinis** - Viridans streptococci, such as S. sanguinis, are the most common cause of subacute IE in damaged native heart valves (e.g., bicuspid aortic valve). Because viridans streptococci are part of the normal oral flora and can be introduced into the blood following dental procedures, patients with certain types of congenital heart disease (e.g., unrepaired cyanotic heart defects) should receive antibiotic prophylaxis prior to invasive dental procedures.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Streptococcus gallolyticus** - S. gallolyticus is an uncommon cause of subacute IE that is usually associated with colonic malignancies. This patient has no clinical features suggestive of colon cancer (e.g., weight loss, GI bleeding, abdominal mass) that would indicate infection with this pathogen.

**B - Staphylococcus epidermidis** - S. epidermidis typically causes subacute IE in patients with peripheral or central venous catheters, surgical implants, or medical devices (e.g., pacemakers, ICDs) by forming a biofilm over the implanted foreign material. This pathogen is also a common cause of IE in patients who have undergone prosthetic valve surgery. However, this patient has no risk factors associated with S. epidermidis, which makes infection with this pathogen unlikely.

**C - Enterococcus faecalis** - E. faecalis is a common cause of subacute endocarditis that is often associated with nosocomial urinary tract infections and manipulation of the genitourinary tract (e.g., occurring during cytoscopies, deliveries, and abortions). However, this patient has neither had a urinary infection, nor has he undergone any procedures, making E. faecalis an unlikely cause of his subacute endocarditis.

**E - Streptococcus pneumoniae** - S. pneumoniae is an uncommon cause of IE and is associated with cirrhosis and HIV infection. This patient has no risk factors for S. pneumoniae endocarditis, which makes it an unlikely causal organism.

**F - Staphylococcus aureus** - S. aureus is the most common cause of IE in patients with native heart valves. However, IE due to S. aureus typically causes acute IE characterized by a rapid disease progression whereas this patient has had a subacute course with symptoms for 2 months. Moreover, this pathogen typically affects previously healthy valves.

**G - Streptococcus pyogenes** - Infection with S. pyogenes can lead to rheumatic fever (RF), which can also manifest with fatigue, low-grade fever, night sweats, shortness of breath, and a heart murmur. However, splinter hemorrhages and Osler nodes are not seen in RF. This patient has subacute IE, which is very rarely caused by S. pyogenes.

**H - Candida albicans** - C. albicans can cause endocarditis in immunosuppressed individuals as well as in patients who are IV drugs users or have recently undergone cardiac surgery. This patient has none of these risk factors.

