### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Staphylococcus epidermidis** - Staphylococcus epidermidis is the most common cause of prosthetic valve endocarditis and is of particular concern in the first year after surgery. It forms a biofilm over the prosthetic valve and typically has an insidious onset with a subacute course (i.e., symptoms develop over weeks to months). This patient has features of subacute infective endocarditis with a history of a prosthetic valve replacement 5 weeks ago, making S. epidermidis the most likely causal organism. Staphylococcus aureus is another leading cause of prosthetic valve endocarditis. However, endocarditis caused by S. aureus is typically characterized by acute onset, rapid disease course, high fever, and severe constitutional symptoms, making this organism less likely.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Streptococcus gallolyticus** - Streptococcus gallolyticus can cause endocarditis, typically in association with colorectal cancer. This patient has no history or clinical features to suggest colorectal carcinoma and his colonoscopy 2 years ago was normal. Therefore, it is much more likely that a different organism is causing this patient's prosthetic valve endocarditis.

**B - Streptococcus pneumoniae** - Streptococcus pneumoniae is a very rare cause of endocarditis that manifests with the Osler triad, which consists of pneumonia, meningitis, and endocarditis. It often occurs in association with heavy drinking, smoking, cocaine use, and splenectomy. This patient has prosthetic valve endocarditis, which is more likely to be caused by a different organism.

**D - Enterococcus faecalis** - Enterococci (e.g., Enterococcus faecalis) are a relatively common cause of infective endocarditis and are typically associated with urinary tract infections or genitourinary procedures. However, this patient's recent history of a prosthetic valve replacement suggests another, more common organism.

**E - Viridans streptococci** - Viridans streptococci are the most common cause of subacute bacterial endocarditis and are associated with pre-damaged native valves and dental procedures. This man has features of prosthetic valve endocarditis 5 weeks after aortic surgery, which makes viridans streptococci endocarditis unlikely.

**F - Streptococcus pyogenes** - Streptococcus pyogenes is a very rare cause of endocarditis. In the setting of a newly implanted prosthetic valve, a different casual organism is much more likely.

**G - Neisseria gonorrhoeae** - Disseminated gonorrheal infection (DGI) due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae can cause endocarditis. However, this patient has no history of gonorrhea, nor does he have symptoms of DGI such as arthritis, meningitis, or a pustular rash.

