### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Intravenous nafcillin + rifampin for 6 weeks + gentamicin for 2 weeks** - IV combination therapy with nafcillin and rifampin can be used for at least 6 weeks in combination with gentamicin for 2 weeks to treat S. epidermidis prosthetic valve endocarditis, which requires a longer duration of therapy than native valve endocarditis. Surgical valve replacement may be required.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral penicillin V + gentamicin for 4 weeks** - Oral penicillin V is not used for the treatment of infective endocarditis. IV penicillin G in combination with gentamicin can be used in the treatment of native valve infective endocarditis if the pathogen is susceptible to this regimen. In this case, a 2-week course is recommended.For S. epidermidis prosthetic valve endocarditis, IV combination therapy for a longer period than 4 weeks is required.

**B - Oral rifampin for 2 weeks** - Rifampin can be used to treat endocarditis caused by methicillin-resistant staphylococci and enterococci. However, it does not suffice as monotherapy and cannot be administered orally. Moreover, the recommended duration of therapy for prosthetic valve endocarditis is longer than 2 weeks.

**C - Intravenous ampicillin + rifampin + ceftriaxone for 2 weeks** - Ampicillin and ceftriaxone can be used to treat native valve endocarditis, and rifampin is a suitable antibiotic for infective endocarditis caused by methicillin-resistant staphylococci. However, these three drugs are not used in combination to treat any form of infective endocarditis. Additionally, the recommended duration of therapy for prosthetic valve endocarditis is longer than 2 weeks.

**D - Oral gentamicin + ceftriaxone for 4 weeks** - The combination of gentamicin and ceftriaxone can be used to treat native valve endocarditis that is caused by a penicillin-susceptible pathogen and not associated with any complications, such as perivalvular abscess. However, a 2-week course of antibiotics is sufficient if the response to therapy is adequate (resolution of fever, chills), and antibiotics should be given parenterally rather than orally. The treatment of prosthetic valve endocarditis consists of a different combination of antibiotics, and a 4-week course is not the recommended duration.

**E - Oral amoxicillin for 6 weeks** - Oral amoxicillin is not suitable for the treatment of infective endocarditis (IE) of any form. IE usually initially requires IV antibiotic therapy. The only case in which oral cloxacillin can be used is for confirmed right-sided S. aureus endocarditis in an IV drug user.

**G - Intravenous gentamicin + penicillin G for 2 weeks** - IV gentamicin and penicillin G are effective in the treatment of native valve endocarditis caused by penicillin-susceptible gram-positive cocci as long as there are no complications, such as perivalvular abscess. If the response to therapy is adequate (resolution of fever, chills), a 2-week course is sufficient. This combination therapy is not, however, suitable for the treatment of prosthetic valve endocarditis. Moreover, the recommended duration of therapy for prosthetic valve endocarditis is longer than 2 weeks.

**H - Intravenous vancomycin for 4 weeks** - Vancomycin is the initial empiric antibiotic of choice in infective endocarditis until blood cultures and susceptibility testing are obtained. It is also used as IV monotherapy in confirmed cases of infective endocarditis caused by MRSA or methicillin-resistant coagulase-negative staphylococci (CoNS). Although most cases of CoNS infection are methicillin-resistant, this patient's blood cultures confirm methicillin susceptibility. Therefore, monotherapy with vancomycin is not required. Moreover, the recommended duration of therapy for prosthetic valve endocarditis is longer than 4 weeks.

