### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Femoropopliteal artery stenosis** - This patient's symptoms of arterial insufficiency (paresthesia, intermittent claudication) in his right calf and foot and palpable femoral pulses but absent right pedal pulses indicate stenosis of the femoropopliteal artery, the most common site of peripheral arterial disease. The tingling in his foot on leg elevation is due to the decrease in arterial blood flow to the limb when raised above the level of the heart (usually insignificant, but can cause symptoms in patients with pre-existing arterial insufficiency). The cramping pain upon exertion (e.g., walking on the treadmill) and relief at rest are characteristic of intermittent claudication (stage II according to Fontaine classification), which is a symptom of arterial insufficiency. Chronic smoking, hypertension, advanced age, and male gender are all significant risk factors for the development of PAD.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Diabetic neuropathy** - Paresthesia of the extremities is a characteristic feature of diabetic neuropathy, a complication seen in patients with chronic diabetics, as seen here. However, diabetic neuropathy typically affects the extremities symmetrically (glove and stocking distribution) and neurological examination would show sensory loss in the affected areas.

**C - Vasculitis of the right popliteal artery** - Vasculitis and thrombosis of small and medium-sized arteries, e.g., the popliteal artery, are the underlying pathogenesis of thromboangiitis obliterans (TAO), for which chronic smoking is the most important risk factor. TAO presents with features of arterial insufficiency (paresthesia, claudication, absent peripheral pulses in the affected limb), as seen in this patient. However, TAO typically affects > 1 limb, commonly manifests with features of Raynaud phenomenon and migratory thrombophlebitis, and rarely affects patients > 45 years of age.

**D - Acute thrombosis of right popliteal vein** - Acute deep vein thrombosis of the right popliteal vein can manifest with sudden, severe pain in the calf that exacerbates on exertion but would not disappear on rest. In addition, paresthesia that worsens on raising the limb above the level of the heart and absent pedal pulses on examination are not features of venous disease. Instead, acute DVT would show edema, warmth, calf tenderness, and, possibly, distended superficial veins in the affected limb, none of which are present in this patient.

**E - Lumbar spinal stenosis** - Lumbar spinal stenosis caused by progressive narrowing of the central spinal canal (e.g., due to spondylolisthesis, intervertebral disc herniation) can present with pseudoclaudication (neuropathic claudication). Although tingling and cramping are symptoms of pseudoclaudication, and the condition occurs unilaterally in about 30% of cases, it typically involves the entire leg and would not cause absent pedal pulses. Additionally, a straight-leg raise test would elicit pain in the back and/or lower limbs.

**F - Aortoiliac artery stenosis** - Although aortoiliac occlusive disease can present with unilateral paresthesia and claudication of the calf and foot, examination would show absent femoral pulses. Additionally, patients with significant aortoiliac stenosis would typically have claudication symptoms in the thigh and gluteal regions.

