### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Aortic valve stenosis** - This patient's auscultation findings are consistent with aortic stenosis (AS), which causes left ventricular outflow obstruction. The result is dizziness and exacerbation of dyspnea upon exertion, and weak peripheral pulses (pulsus parvus et tardus). Incomplete left ventricular emptying may also cause pulmonary venous congestion, which further exacerbates dyspnea.

Image File: 282-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8e498f442.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Aortic valve regurgitation** - Patients with severe aortic regurgitation can present with dizziness and exertional dyspnea, like this patient. However, examination in AR would show a high pulse pressure, a water hammer pulse, and a high-pitched early diastolic murmur heard best at the left 3rd ICS that does not radiate to the carotid arteries.

Image File: 282-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8965271b4.jpg

**B - Tricuspid valve stenosis** - Tricuspid stenosis (TS) is extremely rare and typically presents with abdominal discomfort (due to hepatomegaly) and other features of right-sided heart failure, which are not present here. In addition, the typical murmur of TS is a soft mid-diastolic murmur heard best in the parasternal region of the left 4th ICS.

**C - Pulmonary valve regurgitation** - Pulmonary regurgitation (PR) is usually asymptomatic but can also manifest as exertional dyspnea. However, features of right-sided heart failure would be present, and auscultation in PR would show an early diastolic decrescendo murmur that is best heard parasternally in the left 2nd ICS.

**D - Mitral valve prolapse** - Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) is typically asymptomatic but can also present with exertional dyspnea. However, auscultation of an MVP shows a high-frequency, midsystolic click with a late systolic murmur that is heard best at the left midclavicular line of the 5th ICS.

Image File: 282-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8fa812d65.jpg

**E - Tricuspid valve regurgitation** - Tricuspid regurgitation (TR) is extremely rare and in severe cases presents with abdominal discomfort (due to hepatomegaly) and other features of right-sided heart failure, which are not present here. In addition, the murmur of TR is holosystolic and heard best in the parasternal region of the left 4th ICS.

**F - Mitral valve stenosis** - Mitral stenosis (MS) leads to pulmonary venous congestion, which, in turn, causes dyspnea, as seen in this patient. However, auscultation in MS yields a mid-diastolic murmur heard best at the midclavicular left 5th ICS (the apex), and is often preceded by an opening snap.

Image File: 282-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb87d493973.jpg

**H - Mitral valve regurgitation** - Chronic mitral regurgitation (MR) leads to pulmonary venous congestion, which, in turn, causes dyspnea, as seen in this patient. However, patients with MR would have normal peripheral pulses and a holosystolic high-pitched murmur heard best at the left midclavicular line of the 5th ICS that radiates to the left axilla.

Image File: 282-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8d86971a6.jpg

**I - Pulmonary valve stenosis** - Pulmonary stenosis is mostly a congenital valve defect that can also manifest with exertional dyspnea. In adults, common causes include carcinoid syndrome and chronic rheumatic fever. Auscultation yields an ejection systolic murmur best heard in the left 2nd ICS.

