### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Persistent blood flow between the pulmonary artery and descending aorta** - Failure of the ductus arteriosus to completely close postnatally allows blood to flow from the descending aorta back to the pulmonary artery (left-to-right shunt). In a large patent ductus arteriosus (PDA), this leads to volume overload of the right ventricle and the lung circuit. This increased blood flow causes pulmonary hypertension and irreversible remodeling of small pulmonary vessels, which may eventually lead to an Eisenmenger reaction, manifesting as cyanosis and clubbing. The symptoms of differential cyanosis in this patient are specific for PDA. Because the ductus is located on the descending aorta after the origin of the left subclavian artery, reversal of the shunt results in a mixture of deoxygenated and oxygenated blood reaching only the lower body.

Image File: 283-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_565868481b6b5.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Single overriding great vessel arising from the heart** - A single overriding great vessel is called a persistent truncus arteriosus. This single arterial trunk arising from the heart provides mixed blood to the pulmonary arteries and the systemic circulation. Pulses may be accentuated and bounding; however, oxygen saturation would be decreased in all extremities. Furthermore, if it is not diagnosed prenatally, it will typically present perinatally with symptoms of global cyanosis and heart failure, while this adolescent patient only has differential cyanosis.

**B - Anomalous shunting of blood through a defect in atrial septum** - Atrial septal defects (ASD) are often asymptomatic. In adults, larger defects may lead to a distinct left-to-right shunt, which can result in right heart failure, supraventricular arrhythmias and pulmonary hypertension, and ultimately lead to an Eisenmenger reaction and global cyanosis. Differential cyanosis would not be seen.

Image File: 283-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_56586745170ba.jpg

**D - Positioning of the ascending aorta directly over a ventricular septal defect** - Positioning of the ascending aorta directly over a ventricular septal defect is seen in tetralogy of Fallot. The other features of this cardiac abnormality are pulmonary stenosis and right ventricular hypertrophy. It is typically symptomatic in infancy and presents with tet spells and mild cyanosis in all extremities.

Image File: 283-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_56586be29b995.jpg

**E - Abnormal narrowing of the aorta at the aortic isthmus** - Abnormal narrowing of the aorta at the aortic isthmus is consistent with coarctation of the aorta, which may manifest with bounding pulses and cyanosis of the lower extremities in neonates. Older children will have cool lower extremities with faint or unpalpable pulses, but no cyanosis. Moreover, physical examination would demonstrate a brachio-femoral pulse delay, while this patient has synchronous pulses. Finally, additional symptoms, such as headaches, epistaxis, and claudication of the lower extremities, would be expected in a patient presenting with coarctation of the aorta.

Image File: 283-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5db0703f3891a.jpg

