### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Third-degree atrioventricular block** - This patient's dyspnea, dizziness, syncopal episodes (Stokes-Adams attacks), bradycardia, recent inferior myocardial infarction (MI), and ECG findings are consistent with a third-degree atrioventricular block (i.e., complete AV block). In third-degree AV blocks, there is no rhythmic relationship between the atria (P waves) and ventricles (QRS complexes), which beat independently of one another. Additionally, the atrial rate is greater than the ventricular rate (i.e., more P waves than QRS complexes) and both rates are constant, as seen in this patient. Third-degree AV block may complicate an inferior MI (because the AV node and His bundle are primarily supplied by the right coronary artery) or an anterior MI (because the His bundle may receive blood from the septal branches of the left coronary artery). Other causes of third-degree AV block include infections (e.g., Lyme disease, bacterial endocarditis), cardiomyopathy, hyperkalemia, and iatrogenic effects (e.g., cardiac interventions, drugs such as beta blockers).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - First-degree atrioventricular block** - First-degree atrioventricular blocks can develop after an acute inferior myocardial infarction (the right coronary artery also supplies the atrioventricular node, which is where this block occurs). However, patients with first-degree AV block are typically asymptomatic. Moreover, the condition is characterized by a prolonged PR interval (> 200 ms) with a QRS complex following every P wave (i.e., all P waves are conducted through to the ventricles), which is not the case here.

Image File: 284-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_54e4997515855.jpg

**B - Atrial fibrillation** - Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a common complication of acute myocardial infarction that can cause dyspnea, dizziness, and syncope, as seen here. However, AF is characterized by an irregularly irregular rhythm with varying R-R intervals and absent P waves. Moreover, AF is commonly associated with a rapid ventricular response (ventricular rate > 100 bpm), which is not consistent with this patient's bradycardia.

Image File: 284-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59948e7953cf2.jpg

**C - Mobitz type I block** - Dyspnea, dizziness, syncopal episodes, and bradycardia may rarely be seen in Mobitz type I block, a potential complication of an inferior myocardial infarction (the right coronary artery also supplies the atrioventricular node, which is where this block occurs). However, Mobitz type I blocks are characterized by progressive lengthening of the PR interval until a beat is dropped (i.e., a nonconducted P wave that is not followed by a QRS complex), which is not the case here.

Image File: 284-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_599560f9466c9.jpg

**D - Sinus bradycardia** - Dyspnea, dizziness, and syncope may rarely be seen in sinus bradycardia, a potential complication of an inferior myocardial infarction (because the right coronary artery also supplies the sinoatrial node). However, the ECG in patients with sinus bradycardia shows P waves of normal morphology that are always followed by QRS complexes, which is not the case here.

**E - Atrial flutter** - Atrial flutter can complicate an acute myocardial infarction and cause dyspnea, dizziness, and syncope (even though most patients with atrial flutter are asymptomatic). However atrial flutter is a type of supraventricular tachycardia that is typically associated with a fast heart rate, which is not consistent with this patient's bradycardia. Moreover, flutter waves (i.e., sawtooth appearance of P waves that occur in sequence at a rate of ∼ 300 bpm), which are the characteristic ECG finding in atrial flutter, are not seen here.

Image File: 284-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_605214a4d2d6c.jpg

**F - Mobitz type II block** - Dyspnea, dizziness, syncopal episodes, bradycardia, and ECG showing atrioventricular dissociation after a recent myocardial infarction may raise suspicion for a Mobitz type II block (due to damage to the His-Purkinje system, which is where this block most commonly occurs). However, Mobitz type II blocks are characterized by intermittent dropped beats (i.e., nonconducted P waves that are not followed by QRS complexes) and a constant PR interval, which is not the case here.

Image File: 284-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6058c844b72af.jpg

