### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Administration of magnesium sulfate** - IV magnesium sulfate is the first-line treatment for torsades de pointes in hemodynamically stable patients. It is highly effective in terminating TdP as well as preventing recurrences, which is vital because patients are at an increased risk for ventricular fibrillation. TdP in this patient is most likely due to macrolide antibiotics, which are the first-line antibiotics for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia. The macrolide antibiotic should be discontinued and treatment with doxycycline initiated.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administration of metoprolol** - Metoprolol would be the initial treatment of choice in patients with nonsustained ventricular tachycardia who have an underlying cardiac condition. Beta blockers are not used in the treatment of torsades de pointes.

**C - Immediate electrical cardioversion** - Emergent electrical cardioversion is the first-line treatment for TdP in patients who are hemodynamically unstable, but this patient is conscious and hemodynamically stable.

**D - Administration of amiodarone** - Amiodarone is the first-line therapy for ventricular tachycardia in hemodynamically stable patients. Because it actually prolongs the QT interval, it is contraindicated in this patient.

**E - Intermittent transvenous overdrive pacing** - Intermittent transvenous overdrive pacing is an alternative treatment modality that is reserved for patients with long QT-related TdP who do not respond to the first-line drug. It increases the heart rate to ∼ 100 bpm and shortens the QT-interval, thereby terminating the TdP.

**F - Adminstration of potassium chloride** - Administration of potassium chloride is indicated to treat hypokalemia, which can cause TdP, but it is otherwise not the treatment of choice for TdP. This patient's K+ levels are normal.

