### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Jugular venous distention on inspiration** - Normally, the decrease in intrathoracic pressure during inspiration expands the compliant right ventricle resulting in a decrease in jugular venous pressure. In constrictive pericarditis, compliance of the right ventricle is decreased and the right ventricle fails to expand during inspiration. Therefore, the jugular venous pressure, which might already be increased in constrictive pericarditis due to restricted right ventricular filling during late diastole, would increase further during inspiration. This phenomenon, which is called Kussmaul sign, can also be seen in patients with restrictive cardiomyopathy and right atrial or ventricular tumors.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Elimination of S2 heart sound splitting with inspiration** - Splitting of the second heart sound (S2) is a physiological finding heard during inspiration. It is caused by the early closure of the aortic valve (A2) in relation to the pulmonary valve (P2) when intrathoracic pressure is decreased. In conditions such as aortic stenosis, VSD with Eisenmenger syndrome, and LBBB, elimination of S2 splitting can occur because A2 is delayed and superimposed on P2. Although severe, long-standing aortic stenosis can result in fatigue, dyspnea, orthopnea, and cough (due to cardiogenic pulmonary edema), chronic AS is not associated with fever or night sweats but with symptoms such as syncope, palpitations, and angina. Moreover, an x-ray would not show pericardial calcifications but an enlarged cardiac silhouette.

**B - Head bobbing in synchrony with heart beat** - Rhythmic nodding or bobbing of the head in synchronicity with the heartbeat is referred to as de Musset sign, a typical feature of chronic aortic regurgitation (AR). AR may present with progressively worsening fatigue, dyspnea, orthopnea, and cough (due to cardiogenic pulmonary edema). However, chronic AR is not associated with fever or night sweats, and an x-ray would not show pericardial calcifications, but rather a prominent aortic root and an enlarged cardiac silhouette.

**C - Painless erythematous lesions on palms or soles** - Painless erythematous lesions on the palms or soles are called Janeway lesions, a finding highly suggestive of infective endocarditis, which can present with dyspnea, fatigue, cough, fever, and night sweats. However, the symptoms of infective endocarditis have an acute or subacute onset (days to weeks), unlike this patient who had fever, night sweats. and cough for a year before developing dyspnea and fatigue. Moreover, an x-ray would not show pericardial calcifications, and infective endocarditis is almost always associated with the development of a new heart murmur.

Image File: 289-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59a3f6a6b10e5.jpg

**D - Prominent "a" wave on jugular venous pressure tracing** - On a jugular venous pressure tracing, the “a” wave is caused by atrial contraction in late diastole. A prominent “a” wave is a sign of increased atrial contraction pressure due to restricted filling of the right ventricle (e.g., tricuspid valve stenosis, right ventricular hypertrophy, cardiac tamponade). In constrictive pericarditis, right ventricular filling is only impaired when the elastic limit of the pericardium is reached. As a result, all right ventricular filling rapidly occurs in early diastole, producing a prominent and deep x descent and y descent on venous pressure tracing rather than a prominent “a” wave.

**F - Crescendo-decrescendo systolic ejection murmur** - A crescendo-decrescendo (diamond-shaped) systolic ejection murmur best heard in the second right intercostal space is a common finding in aortic valve stenosis. Although severe, long-standing aortic stenosis can result in chest pain, fatigue, dyspnea, orthopnea, and cough (due to cardiogenic pulmonary edema), chronic AS is not associated with fever or night sweats but with symptoms such as syncope, angina, and palpitations. Moreover, an x-ray would not show pericardial calcifications but an enlarged cardiac silhouette.

Image File: 289-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8e498f442.jpg

