### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Amiodarone** - Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic agent used for the treatment of ventricular fibrillation. The management of ventricular fibrillation should begin with unsynchronized cardioversion and, if fibrillation persists after two shocks, continue with administration of epinephrine. Amiodarone is indicated after the third cycle of unsuccessful defibrillation.

Image File: 290-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60ac5bb660670.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Sotalol** - Sotalol is a nonselective beta blocker that also acts as a potassium channel antagonist. It is used to treat both atrial and ventricular arrhythmias. However, according to the ACLS algorithm, sotalol is not indicated for the management of this patient's refractory ventricular fibrillation.

**B - Sodium bicarbonate** - Sodium bicarbonate can be used to treat underlying causes of arrhythmia (e.g., overdose with tricyclic antidepressants). However, it is not indicated in the acute management for this patient's ventricular fibrillation (according to ACLS algorithm) and would only be administered after the successful return of spontaneous circulation.

**C - Norepinephrine** - Norepinephrine is a catecholamine drug that can be used for the treatment of hypotension. According to the ACLS algorithm, it is not indicated for the management of this patient's refractory ventricular fibrillation.

**E - Epinephrine** - Epinephrine is a catecholamine drug that can be used for the treatment of ventricular arrhythmias. Although further doses of epinephrine should be given regularly as part of the ACLS algorithm, this patient has already received epinephrine and is still in ventricular fibrillation. Consequently, a different medication should be added.

**F - Dopamine** - Dopamine is a catecholamine that is used for the treatment of hypotension and hemodynamically unstable bradycardia. According to the ACLS algorithm, it is not indicated for the management of this patient's refractory ventricular fibrillation.

**G - Atropine** - Atropine can be used for the treatment of bradycardia. It is not indicated for the management of refractory ventricular fibrillation.

