### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Administer oral amoxicillin 1 hour before the procedure** - Antimicrobial prophylaxis for endocarditis is recommended for high-risk patients (e.g., patients with prosthetic heart valves, a history of infectious endocarditis, or an unrepaired cyanotic congenital heart defect) undergoing procedures that often result in bacteremia with common pathogens of infective endocarditis. These procedures include dental procedures, procedures of the respiratory tract that involve incision of the respiratory mucosa, and surgery involving prosthetic cardiac materials (e.g., prosthetic heart valves), as well as procedures involving the skin, musculoskeletal tissue, gastrointestinal tract, or genitourinary tract during an ongoing infection. The most commonly used antibiotic regimen in the prophylaxis of endocarditis is oral amoxicillin administered 60 minutes prior to a high-risk procedure.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Obtain echocardiography prior to procedure** - Echocardiography is indicated in patients with prosthetic heart valves if a change in clinical symptoms (e.g, a new murmur, new cardiac symptoms) occurs or if valve dysfunction is suspected, which is not the case in this patient. Echocardiography is not routinely indicated before dental procedures.

**C - Avoid nitrous oxide during the procedure** - Nitrous oxide is a general anesthetic used for sedation and analgesia during dental procedures. There are very few contraindications for the use of nitrous oxide, but these include known hypersensitivity to nitrous oxide, having undergone previous vitreoretinal surgery, and intraocular gas bubbles (a treatment for retinal detachment), none of which apply to this patient.

**D - Discontinue aspirin and warfarin 72 hours prior to procedure** - In patients with prosthetic heart valves undergoing procedures in which only minor bleeding is to be expected or bleeding can be easily controlled (e.g., dental procedures, minor dermatologic procedures), anticoagulation should be continued with a therapeutic INR.

**E - Administer oral clindamycin 1 hour before and 2 hours after the procedure** - Clindamycin is used as a second-line agent for the prevention of infective endocarditis in patients allergic to penicillin. However, this patient has no history of allergies, and antibiotic prophylaxis is not routinely administered following dental procedures.

