### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Aortic valve regurgitation** - The auscultatory findings in this patient are characteristic of aortic regurgitation (AR) due to valvular disease. AR causes left ventricular end-diastolic volume overload (as the LV receives blood from the left atrium and the regurgitant aorta), which results in hyperdynamic circulation. This manifests as palpitations (especially in the left lateral decubitus position, when the enlarged left ventricle is closest to the chest wall) and a widened pulse pressure, as seen in this patient. The recent exertional dyspnea in this patient indicates the onset of left heart failure, as the left heart is unable to maintain adequate cardiac output during exertion.

Image File: 292-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8965271b4.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Mitral valve regurgitation** - Mitral regurgitation (MR) can manifest as dyspnea (due to pulmonary venous congestion) and palpitations if atrial fibrillation develop, and this patient presents with both of these symptoms. However, MR presents with a holosystolic murmur best heard at the cardiac apex (left 5th intercostal space), in contrast to this patient's diastolic murmur. Furthermore, his lungs are clear to auscultation which makes pulmonary venous congestion unlikely.

Image File: 292-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8d86971a6.jpg

**B - Pulmonary valve stenosis** - Pulmonary stenosis (PS) is usually a congenital heart defect. Acquired PS is rare but can occur in patients with carcinoid syndrome or rheumatic heart disease. It would typically present with features of right-sided heart failure rather than the dyspnea and palpitations seen in this patient. The typical murmur of PS is an ejection systolic murmur, which is heard best parasternally at the left 2nd intercostal space, often with a widely split S2. This patient's diastolic murmur rules out PS as a possible diagnosis.

Image File: 292-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb7f88a3d3c.jpg

**D - Tricuspid valve regurgitation** - Tricuspid regurgitation (TR) is a rare valvular abnormality that is usually asymptomatic. Right-sided valvular heart diseases are more common in individuals with a history of IV drug use, which this patient does not have. Chronic and/or severe TR manifests with features of right-sided heart failure but usually not with dyspnea or palpitations, which are present in this patient. Furthermore, TR causes a holosystolic murmur heard best at the 4th intercostal space of the left sternal border rather than a diastolic murmur.

Image File: 292-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8d86971a6.jpg

**E - Aortic valve stenosis** - The characteristic triad of symptomatic aortic stenosis (AS) is exertional dyspnea, stable angina, and exertional dizziness/syncope caused by left ventricular outflow obstruction. Palpitations, which are seen in this patient, are not typical of AS. AS causes weak peripheral pulses (pulsus parvus et tardus) and low/narrow pulse pressure, in contrast to this patient's findings. Moreover, the characteristic murmur of AS is a harsh crescendo-decrescendo late systolic ejection murmur heard best over the right 2nd intercostal space, which radiates to the carotids.

Image File: 292-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb888d89352.jpg

**F - Mitral valve stenosis** - Mitral stenosis (MS) can manifest as dyspnea (due to pulmonary venous congestion) and palpitations if atrial fibrillation develops, and this patient presents with both of these symptoms. Although the murmur that is characteristic of MS also occurs during diastole, as heard in this clip, it is most often a mid-diastolic decrescendo murmur preceded by an opening snap and is heard best at the cardiac apex. This patient has an early diastolic murmur best heard at the left sternal border that is associated with a widened pulse pressure, and his lungs are clear to auscultation, making another diagnosis more likely.

Image File: 292-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb87d493973.jpg

**G - Mitral valve prolapse** - Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) is typically asymptomatic but can present with palpitations and exertional dyspnea, which are seen in this patient. Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) is one of the most common valvular abnormalities in the US, especially in young women. However, widened pulse pressure is not caused by MVP. Typical cardiac auscultatory findings of MVP would also include a high-frequency, midsystolic click with a late systolic murmur that is heard best at the cardiac apex (left midclavicular line of the 5th intercostal space).

Image File: 292-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8fa812d65.jpg

