### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Transthoracic echocardiogram** - A transthoracic echocardiogram is the most appropriate next step in managing an asymptomatic patient with a diastolic murmur. Unlike systolic murmurs, which are often physiologic, all diastolic murmurs are considered abnormal. The best initial test to assess both the location and severity of the valvular defect is a TTE. TTE is also indicated in certain systolic murmurs (holosystolic murmurs, late systolic, murmurs with added sounds such as clicks, radiating murmurs), continuous murmurs, and any murmur that is symptomatic.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Exercise stress test** - Exercise stress tests are used to assess patients with suspected coronary artery disease as well as those with valvular heart disease and evidence of cardiac ischemia. In an asymptomatic patient with no history of exertional chest pain or dyspnea, a stress test would not be helpful.

**B - No further testing** - Certain asymptomatic systolic murmurs can be safely monitored, with no further testing required. However, diastolic murmurs are considered abnormal and should be evaluated further.

**D - X-ray of the chest** - Chest x-rays are of limited use in assessing valvular heart disease, as they cannot visualize the heart valves in any anatomical or functional detail.

**E - CT scan of the chest with contrast** - Chest CT with contrast may be used to evaluate patients with suspected aortic valve disease, especially in the preoperative setting, as it can help to identify the extent of aortic calcification and the anatomy of the aortic root. However, chest CTs are static rather than dynamic studies and are limited in their ability to assess the anatomy and severity of valvular defects. In addition, CT involves radiation exposure and should be avoided when possible, especially in women of child-bearing age.

**F - Transesophageal echocardiography** - Indications for transesophageal echocardiography include diagnosis of suspected valvular vegetations (e.g., due to bacterial endocarditis), cardiac tumors, and intramural thrombi. TEE is an invasive study that would not be indicated in an otherwise asymptomatic patient with a diastolic murmur.

