### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Inhibition of NMDA receptors** - Inhibition of NMDA receptors and activation of dopaminergic neurons are the mechanisms of action of phencyclidine (PCP), which is typically ingested through smoking. Features of PCP intoxication in addition to those seen in this patient include increased pain tolerance, dissociative feelings, miosis, vertical nystagmus, delirium, and seizures. Benzodiazepines are the treatment of choice for agitation associated with PCP, while antipsychotics (e.g., haloperidol) may be used if there are also symptoms of psychosis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Stimulation of μ-opioid receptors** - Stimulation of μ-opioid receptors is the mechanism of action of opioids, which can cause altered mental status and amnesia, as seen in this patient. However, other classical features of opioid intoxication such as pinpoint pupils, respiratory depression, decreased heart rate, and blood pressure, as well as hypothermia are not present. Moreover, opioid intoxication would not explain this patient's muscle rigidity, visual hallucinations, or violent behavior.

**B - Direct stimulation of GABA receptors** - Direct stimulation of GABA receptors is the mechanism of action of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB), which can cause amnesia, as seen in this patient. However, other typical features of GHB intoxication such as increased sexual desire, sensitivity to touch and sound, lightheadedness, loss of consciousness, perspiration, nausea, and vomiting are not present. Moreover, GHB intoxication would not explain the violent behavior or muscle rigidity seen in this patient. Two commonly used drugs that indirectly stimulate GABA receptors are benzodiazepines, which increase the frequency of opening of the GABAA receptor chloride ion channel, and barbiturates, which increase the duration of opening of the chloride ion channel.

**C - Inhibition of dopamine D2 receptors** - Inhibition of dopamine D2 receptors is the mechanism of action of both typical and atypical antipsychotics, which can cause neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) as a side effect. NMS can manifest with hyperthermia, hypertension, muscle rigidity, and reduced facial expressions, as seen in this patient. However, NMS is not associated with violent behavior, amnesia or visual hallucinations. Moreover, this patient has no history of psychiatric illness and therefore is unlikely to be taking antipsychotic medication.

**D - Stimulation of cannabinoid receptors** - Stimulation of cannabinoid receptors is the mechanism of action of cannabis, which can cause hypertension and amnesia, as seen in this patient. Cannabis intoxication can further present with both joviality and dysphoria, anxiety/panic, conjunctival injection, increased appetite, dry mouth, perceptual changes and impaired reaction time, concentration, and coordination, none of which are seen here. Although cannabis-induced psychosis may lead to visual hallucinations, cannabis use is not associated with violent behavior, hyperthermia, or muscle rigidity.

**E - Stimulation of 5HT2A and dopamine D2 receptors** - Stimulation of 5HT2A and dopamine D2 receptors is the mechanism of action of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), a hallucinogen that can cause hyperthermia, hypertension, and visual hallucinations, as seen in this patient. However, other features of LSD intoxication such as depersonalization, synesthesia, changes in time perception, and flight of ideas are not present. Moreover, LSD intoxication does not typically cause violent behavior and amnesia, and would not explain this patient's muscle rigidity.

**F - Inhibition of adenosine receptors** - Inhibition of adenosine receptors is the mechanism of action of caffeine. This stimulant can cause psychomotor agitation and tachycardia, both of which are seen here. However, this patient does not have other features of caffeine intoxication, such as palpitations, headache, tremor, muscle twitching, diuresis, or gastrointestinal disturbance. Moreover, caffeine intoxication is not typically associated with violent behavior, muscle rigidity, amnesia, hypertension, hyperthermia, and visual hallucinations.

