### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Previous suicide attempt** - A prior history of attempted suicide is the strongest single predictive factor for suicide. Patients with such a history are 5–6 times more likely to make another attempt. This patient has multiple additional risk factors including a history of major depressive disorder, male sex, older age, access to weapons (especially firearms), and social isolation. Frequent follow-ups are vital to prevent recurrence of suicidal ideation in this patient.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Mood disorder** - Mood disorders such as major depressive disorder or bipolar disorder increase the risk of suicide. More than 90% of patients who attempt suicide have a psychiatric disorder. However, mood disorders are not the most predictive risk factor for suicide.

**C - Lack of social support** - Lack of social support is a risk factor for suicide. The risk of suicide varies with marital status with the highest risk in those who were never married followed by those who are widowed, separated, or divorced. Social support and family connectedness are thought to be protective against suicide. A lack of social support, however, is not the most predictive risk factor for suicide.

**D - Male sex** - Males are more likely than females to have a completed suicide, though females attempt suicide more often. The sex difference seems to be related to the lethality of the method chosen. Whereas the most common method of suicide for males is a firearm in the US, the most common method for females is poisoning. Male sex is not the most predictive risk factor for suicide.

**E - History of psychosis** - Psychosis is associated with an increased risk of suicide. Patients with psychosis may experience paranoia and hear voices telling them to kill themselves (i.e., command auditory hallucinations). Psychosis, however, is not the most predictive risk factor for suicide.

**F - Access to firearms** - The risk of suicide increases in patients with access to firearms. This is due to the lethality of firearms as a method of suicide. Access to arms, however, is not the most predictive risk factor for suicide.

**G - Sleeping disorder** - Psychiatric disorders such as depression, which this patient has, may result in disturbance of sleep. But it is unclear whether a sleeping disorder on its own increases the risk of suicidality.

**H - Age** - The risk of suicide increases with age in some groups (e.g. white males) and decreases in others. Comorbid physical and mental illness (particularly depression), and social inclusion seem to play a major role. Suicide attempts in the elderly are usually more planned and less impulsive than those in younger individuals. Increased age, however, is not the strongest predictive risk factor for suicide regardless of sex and race.

