### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Contrast-enhanced CT angiography** - Contrast-enhanced CT angiography is the gold standard of diagnosis for aortic injury in hemodynamically stable patients. It has high sensitivity and specificity, is widely available and non-operator dependent, and provides useful anatomical information for surgical planning. An aortic injury may manifest with an abnormal aortic contour in combination with a hematoma around the aorta. An aortic rupture may present with a mediastinal hematoma or a hemothorax.

Image File: 300-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ff071a99a382.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pericardiocentesis** - Pericardiocentesis is indicated for the treatment of pericardial effusion and cardiac tamponade, which are important differential diagnoses that can cause a widened mediastinum. However, patients with a cardiac tamponade typically have muffled heart sounds and distended (rather than flat) neck veins (caused by decreased venous return to the heart). Also, a chest x-ray may show an enlarged cardiac silhouette, which is not seen in this patient.

**C - Aortography** - Although aortography was formerly used to evaluate for aortic pathology, less invasive modalities that are more readily available and easier to perform are now preferred.

**D - Transesophageal echocardiography** - Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) offers high sensitivity and specify for identification of aortic injuries. In patients with aortic trauma, it may show aortic wall rupture, mediastinal hematoma, and/or abnormal aortic contours. TEE is indicated in patients who are hemodynamically unstable and cannot be transported safely for other imaging modalities. In a patient who is hemodynamically stable, however, a different imaging modality that is more readily available and provides more detailed anatomical information is preferred.

**E - Abdominal ultrasonography** - Abdominal ultrasonography is useful for examining solid abdominal organs and vascular structures, as well as evaluating for free abdominal fluid. However, the patient's history of deceleration trauma, as well as his presentation with chest pain, thoracic bruises, and a widened mediastinum on chest x-ray, should prompt urgent evaluation by another modality.

**F - Placement of a chest tube** - A chest tube can be used to treat patients with a pneumothorax or hemothorax. However, this patient's imaging findings do not indicate the presence of either of these conditions. Moreover, the finding of a widened mediastinum, in combination with chest pain and manifestations of compensated shock, suggest a different diagnosis.

**G - Intubation with positive pressure ventilation** - Intubation with positive pressure ventilation may be indicated if the patient is developing acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Although dyspnea, tachypnea, and tachycardia after a major traumatic event may indicate ARDS, this patient's clear lungs on auscultation and chest x-ray suggest a different diagnosis.

