### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Discontinue metformin therapy** - Metformin is associated with an increased risk of life-threatening lactic acidosis in patients with predisposing conditions that reduce lactic acid clearance (i.e., renal and/or hepatic insufficiency), increased lactic acid production (e.g., sepsis), or a combination of both (e.g., heart failure with low cardiac output). This patient's renal insufficiency and heart failure with decreased cardiac output are both contraindications to metformin therapy, which should therefore be discontinued immediately. Insulin should instead be used for inpatient glycemic control.

The use of metformin may be safe in a case of chronic heart failure with preserved cardiac output. Other important indications for discontinuing metformin (albeit temporarily) are surgery, acidemia, and the intravenous administration of an iodinated contrast medium (e.g., CT scans, fluoroscopic studies).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Begin vancomycin therapy** - Vancomycin is commonly used in the empiric treatment of suspected MRSA infections. However, in the absence of fever and leukocytosis, this patient's respiratory symptoms are more consistent with pulmonary edema secondary to acutely decompensated heart failure than an infectious etiology.

**C - Discontinue aspirin therapy** - This patient takes aspirin for his coronary artery disease, which requires low-dose aspirin. While potentially nephrotoxic agents, including NSAIDs and high-dose aspirin, should be avoided in patients with AKI, low-dose aspirin does not impair renal perfusion and should therefore be continued in this patient to prevent complications of his illness.

**D - Begin nitroprusside therapy** - In a patient with acute decompensated heart failure, the use of vasodilatory medications such as nitroprusside can be considered as an adjunct to diuretic therapy for dyspnea relief. However, nitroprusside should not be used in patients with hypotension.

**E - Begin hydrochlorothiazide therapy** - Diuretics are used in patients with acute decompensated heart failure in order to treat fluid overload. However, loop diuretics are the first-line therapy in patients with acute decompensated heart failure. Thiazide diuretics are only used if loop diuretics fail to relieve congestion.

**F - Begin mechanical ventilation** - In a patient with acutely decompensated heart failure, non-invasive mechanical ventilation such as CPAP can reduce the left ventricular afterload, alleviate work of breathing, increase diffusion of oxygen across the alveoli, and even decrease pulmonary edema. However, the benefits of mechanical ventilation can be outweighed by potential adverse effects, such as barotrauma (especially in chronic smokers), decreased right ventricular preload (due to decreased venous return), and even increased right ventricular afterload (due to increased pulmonary vascular resistance with high levels of positive airway pressure). For this reason, mechanical ventilation is only indicated for patients with persistent hypoxemia (< 90%) and/or a respiratory rate > 25/min despite O2 therapy.

**G - Begin norepinephrine therapy** - Inotropic support should be considered in a patient with acutely decompensated heart failure and hypotension. However, the inotrope of choice in patients with heart failure is dopamine. The use of norepinephrine should only be considered in patients with a systolic blood pressure < 70 mm Hg.

