### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Revascularization surgery** - In patients with critical limb ischemia, urgent revascularization therapy is indicated to prevent limb-threatening arterial occlusion. Revascularization can be performed via percutaneous transluminal angioplasty or bypass surgery, depending on the extension and location of the stenotic/occluded segment. In patients with extensive disease manifesting with long-segment and/or multifocal stenoses or occlusions, as seen here, femorotibial bypass surgery is preferred over endovascular revascularization, as long-term patency rates are higher.

Image File: 304-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f451ad518238.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Above-knee amputation** - Above-knee amputation might be indicated in patients with critical limb ischemia but is generally considered a last resort in extensive, severe gangrene or when revascularization therapy fails. Another treatment option is more appropriate at this point.

**B - Cilostazol therapy** - Cilostazol is indicated in patients with PAD and intermittent claudication, as its vasodilator effects alleviate the symptoms of claudication. However, in patients with critical limb ischemia, which is seen here, cilostazol is not effective and another treatment option is indicated at this point.

**C - Smoking cessation** - Smoking cessation should be recommended in all patients with PAD as smoking is the greatest risk factor for this condition, contributing to further progression of the disease. However, smoking cessation will not reverse this patient's severe PAD. Although strict smoking cessation is indicated in this patient, he presents with critical limb ischemia, which first requires urgent treatment.

**D - Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty** - Revascularization is indicated in critical limb ischemia and can be performed via percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) with or without stenting. PTA is usually the preferred treatment option because of its lower risk, morbidity, mortality, and shorter hospital stay compared to other treatments. However, in patients with long-segment or multifocal stenoses or occlusions, like this one, long-term patency rates of PTA are inferior compared to another treatment.

**E - Graded exercise therapy** - Graded exercise therapy is indicated in patients with PAD and intermittent claudication, as it significantly improves claudication symptoms, increasing the pain-free walking distance. This patient, however, presents with critical limb ischemia, which requires a limb-salvage intervention at this point.

