### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Administration of cilostazol** - Administration of cilostazol is the most appropriate next step in treatment for this patient with intermittent claudication from stage II peripheral arterial disease (PAD) who remains symptomatic despite conservative measures (e.g., smoking cessation, supervised exercise therapy). In addition to cilostazol, all patients with PAD should receive medical therapy with an antiplatelet agent (aspirin or clopidogrel) and a statin to reduce the risk of MI, stroke, and mortality.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Compression stockings** - Compression stockings are a treatment option for patients with chronic venous insufficiency (CVI). In contrast to PAD, the pain from venous stasis and increased hydrostatic pressures is characteristically worse with standing for long periods of time and may improve (not worsen) with walking since calf muscles aid in venous return. Because compression stockings exert external pressure on the limbs, they would further impede blood flow in this patient with PAD, worsening his symptoms.

**C - Endarterectomy** - Endarterectomy is a treatment option for patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI) or those with persistent symptoms of PAD despite conservative and pharmacologic treatment measures. This patient with no rest pain, ulcers, or gangrene does not have CLI. Although he has persistent PAD symptoms despite lifestyle changes (smoking cessation and supervised exercise therapy), another treatment is recommended at this stage.

**D - Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty** - Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) is a treatment option for PAD patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI) or symptoms of lifestyle-limiting claudication persisting despite conservative and pharmacologic treatment. This patient with no rest pain, ulcers, or gangrene does not have CLI. Although he has persistent PAD symptoms despite lifestyle changes (smoking cessation and supervised exercise therapy), another treatment option is recommended at this stage.

**E - Bypass surgery** - Bypass surgery is a treatment option for PAD patients with persistent symptoms despite conservative and pharmacologic treatment measures or in those with critical limb ischemia (CLI). This patient with no rest pain, ulcers, or gangrene does not have CLI. Although he has persistent PAD symptoms despite lifestyle changes (smoking cessation and supervised exercise therapy), another treatment is recommended at this stage.

**F - Endovenous thermal ablation** - Endovenous thermal ablation is a definitive treatment option for patients with chronic venous insufficiency (e.g., pain, bleeding, ulcer, hyperpigmentation due to chronic venous reflux) that does not respond to conservative management. In contrast to PAD, the pain from venous stasis and increased hydrostatic pressures is characteristically worse with standing for long periods of time and may improve (not worsen) with walking since calf muscles aid in venous return.

