### ** Correct Answer: **

**H - Regular phlebotomy** - Regular phlebotomy is the treatment of choice for patients with hemochromatosis who have evidence of iron overload. This patient has evidence of multiorgan involvement; dilated cardiomyopathy, arthritis (usually symmetrical, oligoarticular, progresses to chondrocalcinosis), hepatomegaly, hyperpigmented skin, and diabetes (bronze diabetes). After confirming the diagnosis, therapeutic phlebotomy should be started immediately in patients with symptomatic disease or evidence of iron overload (serum ferritin > 1000 ng/mL), as this can reverse early left ventricular systolic dysfunction and minimize damage to other organs.

Image File: 306-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6058943fafed6.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Smoking cessation** - Smoking is an important risk factor for cardiomyopathy resulting from CAD. However, this patient's additional symptoms suggest a different etiology for his heart failure. While smoking cessation should be recommended for all patients, it would not have prevented his condition.

**B - Prednisone therapy** - Prednisone is often used to treat inflammatory or autoimmune diseases, including SLE and autoimmune hepatitis. While SLE is associated with dilated cardiomyopathy (cardiac disease is common in SLE) and arthritis, the absence of a malar rash and this patient's other symptoms suggest a different etiology. Use of prednisone would not have prevented his condition.

**C - Nocturnal continuous positive airway pressure therapy** - Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) can contribute to systolic heart failure (especially if pulmonary hypertension is present) and is associated with increased cardiovascular mortality, as well as with diabetes and hepatic steatosis. While this patient's history of snoring could suggest underlying OSA, his other symptoms suggest a different etiology of his heart failure, and using nocturnal CPAP would not have prevented his condition.

**D - Alcohol cessation** - Chronic alcohol abuse can cause dilated cardiomyopathy, but this patient's additional symptoms are more suggestive of an alternative etiology of heart failure. Although he should be counseled on reducing his alcohol intake, it would not have prevented his condition.

**E - Surgical valve repair** - This patient's mitral regurgitation is likely due to the dilated cardiomyopathy (from left ventricular dilatation and stretching of the mitral annulus), rather than the cause of the cardiomyopathy. Repairing the mitral valve is not indicated and would not have prevented his condition.

**F - Thiamine supplementation** - Severe thiamine deficiency can cause dilated cardiomyopathy and neuropathy (wet beriberi). While this patient's alcohol use puts him at risk for thiamine deficiency, it would not explain his other symptoms and repleting thiamine would not have prevented his condition.

**G - Losartan therapy** - Losartan, an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), is used both for treatment of hypertension and for systolic heart failure. Angiotensin-inhibiting medications are indicated for all patients with reduced ejection fraction, due to evidence for improved survival benefit. Although this patient should be started on one now, it would not have prevented his condition.

**I - Protective clothing** - Lyme disease, a tick-borne infection caused by Borrelia burgdorferi, can cause arthritis and carditis. Lyme carditis, while very rare, typically presents with conduction abnormalities (e.g, AV node block), and there are only isolated case reports of it causing a dilated cardiomyopathy. Although he was recently camping in an endemic area, the duration and combination of his other symptoms suggest a different etiology and wearing protective clothing would not have prevented his condition.

