### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - V1–V6** - ST elevations typically develop in leads V1–V6 on ECG as a result of infarcts that involve the proximal left anterior descending artery (LAD). Leads V1–V2 correspond to the anteroseptal territory; leads V3–V4 correspond to the anteroapical territory; leads V5–V6 correspond to the anterolateral territory. In some cases, ST elevations in the lateral leads (leads I and aVL) can also develop.

Image File: 309-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5da477e9949f6.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - I, aVR** - ST elevations in leads I and aVR are an atypical finding because these leads do not correspond with any specific territory of the heart that is supplied by a single artery. This patient's coronary angiography study shows severe occlusion of the left anterior descending artery.

**B - V3R–V6R** - ST elevations in leads V3R–V6R on ECG typically develop as a result of infarcts that involve the right coronary artery and its branches, which supply the inferior aspect of the heart (e.g., right ventricle). This patient's coronary angiography study shows severe occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending artery, which does not typically affect these leads.

**D - II, III, and aVF** - ST elevations typically develop in leads II, III, and aVF on ECG as a result of infarcts that involve the right coronary artery, which supplies the inferior aspect of the heart. This patient's coronary angiography study shows severe occlusion of the left anterior descending artery, which does not typically affect these leads.

**E - V7–V9** - ST elevations typically develop in leads V7–V9 on ECG as a result of infarcts that involve the posterior descending artery, which supplies the posterior aspect of the heart. This patient's coronary angiography study shows severe occlusion of the left anterior descending artery, which does not typically affect these leads.

