### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Echocardiogram** - Echocardiogram is the primary test in patients with suspected aortic stenosis, the most likely cause of this patient's syncope. In early stages of aortic stenosis, patients are typically asymptomatic at rest. However, during exertion, peripheral vasodilation occurs to increase blood flow to muscles. If stenosis at the aortic valve is severe enough, it obstructs blood flow, thereby preventing an increase in cardiac output to maintain blood pressure during exertion, which leads to hypotension, decreased cerebral blood flow, syncope, dizziness, dyspnea, and angina pectoris. A delayed pulse supports this diagnosis. Auscultatory findings would reveal a crescendo-decrescendo systolic murmur.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Coronary angiography** - Coronary angiography is a diagnostic test for patients with anginal symptoms due to coronary artery disease (CAD). This patient has a history of chest pain that is cardiac in nature, but CAD rarely presents with syncope. Additional risk factors for CAD, such as hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, and a family history of cardiac disease, are notably absent in this patient.

**B - CT angiography** - CT angiography is a diagnostic test for pulmonary embolism (PE) and aortic dissection. This patient lacks a history of chest pain, acute worsening dyspnea, immobility, deep vein thrombosis, or a hypercoagulable state that would raise suspicion of PE. Aortic dissection manifests as the sudden onset of acute, sharp/tearing chest pain radiating to the back, which is not present here.

**D - Tilt table test** - The tilt table test is used to diagnose orthostatic hypotension (postural hypotension). Orthostatic syncope may occur when suddenly standing up after prolonged sitting or lying down, which is not what precipitated this patient's syncope. Although this patient's blood pressure is on the low side, his clinical presentation and history of chest pain on exertion are less suggestive of orthostasis as the cause of syncope.

**E - Continuous ambulatory ECG monitoring** - Continuous ambulatory ECG monitoring (Holter monitoring) is used for 24–48 hours to monitor for possible arrhythmias that are not easily found on routine ECG. However, episodes of syncope are usually not frequent enough to be detectable in such a short period of time. Moreover, this patient has a regular pulse on physical examination, which makes an arrhythmia less likely.

**F - Cardiac enzymes** - Analysis of cardiac enzymes such as troponins and CK-MB should always be ordered in patients with retrosternal chest pain on exertion and/or worsening chest pain at rest. However, this patient presents with syncope, not chest pain: his presentation is not consistent with acute coronary syndrome.

**G - Carotid duplex ultrasonography** - Carotid duplex ultrasound is used as a screening method in patients with a carotid bruit or in those that present with transient ischemic attack (TIA) and/or stroke symptoms, none of which are seen in this patient. Moreover, carotid stenosis does not typically present with syncope.

**H - Electroencephalogram** - EEG is the diagnostic test of choice in patients whose syncope is believed to result from seizure. This patient does not have a history of previous convulsions, electrolyte abnormalities, or other possible causes of seizures. Furthermore, physical examination that shows delayed pulse, low blood pressure, and the lack of confusion on regaining consciousness (postictal state) make seizure an unlikely diagnosis.

