### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Addition of enalapril** - Dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers such as amlodipine cause systemic vasodilation, which increases hydrostatic pressure within precapillary blood vessels and can lead to peripheral edema. ACE inhibitors and ARBs cause preferential vasodilation of the postcapillary blood vessels. When used in combination with calcium channel blockers (CCB), this results in reduction of the transcapillary pressure and significantly reduces the risk of developing CCB-related peripheral edema. While the edema itself is not dangerous, it may be bothersome to some patients and combination therapy with an ACEI or ARB may have prevented this from occurring.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - Addition of chlorpheniramine** - Chlorpheniramine is a first-generation H1-receptor antagonist used to treat symptoms of allergic reactions. Although this patient's edema is an adverse effect related to amlodipine, there is no evidence of an allergic reaction (e.g., hives, rash, pruritus, etc).

**C - Addition of furosemide** - Furosemide, a loop diuretic, is often used to treat peripheral edema secondary to hypervolemic states. However, edema secondary to calcium channel blockers (CCB) is unrelated to increased plasma volume, and loop diuretics have not been shown to be helpful in CCB-related edema.

**D - Discontinuation of linagliptin** - Adverse effects of linagliptin, a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor, include hypoglycemia, mild respiratory infections, and angioedema. In contrast, this patient presents with peripheral edema that is most likely an adverse effect of treatment with amlodipine. Discontinuation of linagliptin would not have prevented this from occurring.

**E - Use of compression stockings** - Adjunctive therapies for peripheral edema of any etiology include the use of compression stockings and elevation of the lower extremities. Although this patient would now benefit from compression stocking use, it would not have prevented the edema from occurring.

**F - Use of nifedipine instead** - All dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (CCB) can cause peripheral edema via vasodilation and increases in hydrostatic pressure. Use of nifedipine instead of amlodipine would not have prevented the edema from occurring.

