### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Outpatient follow-up** - Small ventricular septal defects (VSDs) typically close spontaneously without complication, so asymptomatic patients should be re-evaluated at 6 months of age for spontaneous closure. If symptoms of heart failure arise (e.g., tachypnea, distress during feeding, failure to thrive), patients should be referred for evaluation and medical therapy (diuretics, immunoprophylaxis, nutritional support). Surgical closure is indicated for patients who remain symptomatic or develop complications (e.g., pulmonary hypertension, left ventricular dilation) despite medical therapy. If the patient remains asymptomatic at a 6-month follow-up but their murmur persists, reevaluation at 1 year of age is indicated. Asymptomatic patients should subsequently be reevaluated every 2 years.

Image File: 314-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_565867ce52b14.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Amoxicillin therapy** - Amoxicillin is used for prophylaxis against infective endocarditis in certain high-risk patients who are about to undergo certain high-risk procedures (e.g., dental procedures). Patients with unrepaired non-cyanotic heart defects such as VSD are no longer considered high-risk patients, and procedures such as cardiac catheterization or surgical repair of the VSD are not high-risk procedures. Infective endocarditis prophylaxis is therefore not required in this patient.

**B - Surgical patch closure** - Surgical closure of ventricular septal defects (VSDs) before the age of 2 years is indicated for patients who have heart failure symptoms (e.g., tachypnea, failure to thrive) or complications of VSD (e.g., reversible pulmonary hypertension, left ventricular dilation) despite medical therapy. This patient is asymptomatic and has no signs of complications. A trial of medical therapy would be indicated before considering surgery.

**C - Prostaglandin E1 therapy** - Prostaglandin E1 therapy is used to maintain a patent ductus arteriosus (PDA). This patient has a VSD, which causes a left-to-right shunt, as would a PDA. Treatment with PGE1 could actually worsen this patient's shunting and cause heart failure.

Image File: 314-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_565868481b6b5.jpg

**E - Indomethacin therapy** - Indomethacin is used to induce closure of a patent ductus arteriosus (PDA). PDA is often asymptomatic and would present with a characteristic machine-like continuous murmur on cardiac auscultation. This patient's auscultatory findings are characteristic of a different diagnosis. Moreover, the lack of a PDA on this patient's echocardiogram rules out the diagnosis.

Image File: 314-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_565868481b6b5.jpg

**F - Cardiac catheterization** - Cardiac catheterization was commonly used in the past to confirm chamber pressures in the workup of VSDs. However, echocardiography has largely replaced catheterization in the initial workup of VSD, as it provides almost all of the same information without the associated risks of an invasive procedure.

**G - Transcatheter closure** - Closure of the VSD with an Amplatzer® device via cardiac catheterization is generally reserved for patients with a residual VSD after surgical closure, patients with contraindications for surgical closure (e.g., swiss-cheese septum, poorly accessible muscular VSDs), and for older children with small, restrictive muscular VSDs with significant left-to-right flow. Transcatheter closure is contraindicated in patients with membranous VSDs (which are the most common type of VSDs) because of the high risk of heart block after the procedure.

