### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Transthoracic echocardiography** - Transthoracic echocardiography is a quick, inexpensive, side effect-free, and reliable method for detecting pericardial effusion. It will show an anechoic space between the pericardium and epicardium, indicating fluid accumulation. In a case like this, a FAST exam in the trauma bay is likely going to reveal effusion; the echocardiogram is used to determine the size of it and the best approach for draining the effusion.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Contrast esophagram with gastrografin** - Contrast esophagram with gastrografin is administered to confirm esophageal rupture, which is possible after blunt thoracic trauma. This patient has pain and dyspnea, as would be expected, but this diagnosis does not explain his ECG abnormalities, muffled heart sounds, or jugular venous distention.

**B - X-ray of the chest** - An x-ray of the chest in this patient could show an enlarged cardiac silhouette, which would point to the presence of an effusion. However, there is a more specific and reliable test to confirm the suspected diagnosis.

**C - Transesophageal echocardiography** - Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) is used to detect aortic dissection in unstable patients. This patient's chest pain and motor vehicle accident should raise concern for aortic dissection, but the muffled heart sounds, ECG changes, and jugular venous distention point to a different diagnosis.

**D - CT scan of the brain** - In patients who have been involved in a car accident, a CT of the brain can be used to evaluate head and brain trauma. However, this patient did not lose consciousness and is alert and oriented, making a CT of the brain unnecessary at this time. This test would also not provide any insight into this patient's ECG abnormalities, muffled heart sounds, or distended neck veins.

**E - Contrast-enhanced CT angiography** - Contrast-enhanced CT angiography is used to diagnose aortic dissection in a stable patient. This patient's chest pain and motor vehicle accident should raise concern for aortic dissection, but the muffled heart sounds, ECG changes, and jugular venous distention point to a different diagnosis.

**F - Emergency needle thoracostomy** - Emergency needle thoracostomy is used to treat a tension pneumothorax. This is an important diagnosis to rule out considering the patient's blunt trauma, shortness of breath, and chest pain. However, physical exam would be expected to show decreased breath sounds in the affected lung and ECG would not show electric alternans.

