### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Pericardial knock** - A pericardial knock is often heard on auscultation in constrictive pericarditis in which diastolic ventricular relaxation and filling are abruptly halted by the rigid pericardial sac. A pericardial knock is a high-pitched, early-diastolic sound that sounds like a premature S3. In constrictive pericarditis, reduced ventricular filling leads to manifestations of reduced cardiac output (forward failure), such as fatigue, dyspnea, as well as those of fluid overload (backward failure), such as JVD, positive Kussmaul sign, hepatomegaly, and the clinical features seen in this patient.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Absent jugular venous pulse y descent** - The y descent of the jugular venous pulse waveform corresponds to the emptying of the right atrium following the opening of the tricuspid valve. Absent y descent would indicate resistance to all phases of diastolic filling, which is seen in cardiac tamponade. In constrictive pericarditis, the early phase of diastolic filling is unchanged, but the mid-late phase is met with resistance. This, coupled with the high JVD of chronic venous congestion, produces a prominent y descent that is accentuated in the early phase as filling drops rapidly from a higher peak pressure.

Image File: 318-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ad75913a0cc8.jpg

**B - Friction rub** - In acute pericarditis, inflammation of the pericardial layers can cause friction as they move during the cardiac cycle, creating an audible friction rub on cardiac auscultation. While a friction rub is characteristic of the acute phase of pericarditis, a different heart sound is pathognomonic for chronic constrictive pericarditis, in which the ventricles are working against a calcified and thickened pericardium.

**D - Fourth heart sound** - A fourth heart sound (S4) is caused by a late diastolic contraction of the atria and is seen in restrictive cardiomyopathy, left ventricular hypertrophy, and ischemic heart disease. Restrictive cardiomyopathy is an important differential diagnosis of constrictive pericarditis because it can present similarly. However, it does not cause calcification of the cardiac silhouette. An S4 is not a physical exam finding of constrictive pericarditis, most likely because the rigid pericardial sac impairs atrial contraction.

**E - Pulsus parvus et tardus** - Pulsus parvus et tardus is characteristic of the prolonged left ventricular total ejection time seen in aortic stenosis. Aortic stenosis would cause signs and symptoms of left heart failure, but not the symptoms of right heart failure seen in this patient. Furthermore, calcification in aortic stenosis is limited to the aortic valve and does not involve the entire cardiac silhouette, as seen here.

**F - Fixed split second heart sound** - Fixed splitting of S2 is pathognomonic for atrial septal defect. Although patients with constrictive pericarditis may occasionally have wide splitting of S2 during inspiration due to a reduction in the left ventricular ejection time, they do not have fixed splitting of S2.

