### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Fibromuscular dysplasia** - Fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) is an idiopathic, noninflammatory, nonatherosclerotic developmental defect of the blood vessel wall that causes both narrowing (stenosis) and bulging (aneurysms) of medium-sized arteries (leading to a “string of beads” appearance on angiography), both of which can lead to tissue ischemia. The most frequently affected arteries are the internal carotid and (mid or distal) renal arteries, leading to features of cerebrovascular FMD (e.g., headaches, pulsatile tinnitus, transient ischemic attacks) and/or renal FMD (e.g., renal hypertension, abdominal bruit, renal atrophy), as seen in this patient.

Image File: 319-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59b17925ba650.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Polyarteritis nodosa** - Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a small and medium-sized vessel vasculitis that results in tissue ischemia and can involve both the kidneys and the nervous system. PAN may also manifest with symptoms such as hypertension, renal atrophy, headaches, and transient ischemic attacks, as seen in this patient. However, PAN usually manifests with features of systemic disease (e.g., fever, fatigue, weight loss, arthralgia) as well as additional symptoms depending on the organs involved (e.g., polyneuropathy, skin lesions, abdominal pain), none of which are present here. Moreover, PAN most commonly affects men and is often associated with hepatitis B or hepatitis C infection. Renal angiography characteristically shows numerous microaneurysms and spasms within the affected vessels.

**C - Atherosclerotic plaques** - Atherosclerosis is the most common cause of both renal and carotid artery stenosis, which can also manifest with renal hypertension, abdominal bruit, renal atrophy, headaches, tinnitus, and transient ischemic attacks. This patient's 11-pack-year smoking history increases her risk of developing atherosclerosis. However, she lacks further known risk factors, such as advanced age, obesity, dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus, and chronic hypertension. Moreover, atherosclerotic plaques resulting in stenosis are typically found in the proximal ⅓ of the renal artery as opposed to the distal involvement seen here.

**D - Congenital renal hypoplasia** - Hypertension and a small right kidney raise suspicion for congenital renal hypoplasia. However, unilateral renal hypoplasia is usually asymptomatic and would not explain this patient's neurological symptoms. Moreover, angiography would show a proportionally small renal artery and arterial branches instead of the distal renal artery stenosis seen here.

**E - Systemic lupus erythematosus** - Neurological complaints, renal, and vascular disease in a woman of childbearing age raise suspicion for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). However, in the absence of antiphospholipid syndrome, SLE does not (typically) manifest with renal artery stenosis. Moreover, this patient lacks other characteristic findings of SLE such as fatigue, malar rash, polyarthritis/polyarthralgia, symptoms of serositis (e.g., chest pain), or hematologic disorders (e.g., anemia, thrombocytopenia).

