### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Akathisia** - Akathisia describes the symptoms of motor restlessness seen here. It is an extrapyramidal side effect of antipsychotic medications, especially typical high-potency drugs such as fluphenazine. The onset of akathisia is typically within 1–8 weeks of treatment initiation, as seen here. Another EPS that occurs within this timeframe is pseudoparkinsonism. In contrast, acute dystonia occurs more immediately (within hours to days), and tardive dyskinesia occurs later (months to years).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Restless legs syndrome** - In restless legs syndrome (RLS), patients experience disturbed sleep caused by an urge to move, similar to this patient. However, in RLS, movement typically relieves the urge to move, whereas this patient does not find relief. This patient also has symptoms during the day as well as at night, whereas the symptoms of RLS have a circadian rhythm. Restless legs syndrome is not associated with antipsychotic medications.

**B - Parkinsonism** - Pseudoparkinsonism can be induced by antipsychotic drugs and is considered a subtype of EPS. It appears within days to months of treatment initiation, and this patient was prescribed fluphenazine 2 weeks ago. However, pseudoparkinsonism is characterized by tremor, cogwheel rigidity, and shuffling gait, which this patient does not have.

**C - Athetosis** - Athetosis may occur as a feature of tardive dyskinesia, which can occur as an EPS following months to years of exposure to antipsychotic drugs. However, this patient has only been taking fluphenazine for 2 weeks. Furthermore, athetosis is characterized by slow, continuous, involuntary writhing movements, which are not present here.

**D - Tourette syndrome** - Tourette syndrome involves the urge to move that precedes its characteristic motor tics. This patient also has an urge to move. However, Tourette tics are sudden and involuntary, which does not describe this patient's symptoms. In addition, this patient does not have any vocal tics, and she is not of the typical age of onset for Tourette syndrome (i.e., before the age of 18). Lastly, Tourette syndrome is not known to be caused by antipsychotic medications and is not a known EPS.

**F - Inadequately treated schizophrenia** - Schizophrenia can cause agitation due to distressing delusions or hallucinations. This patient does not report changes in her thoughts or perceptions but instead seems agitated by her own restlessness and inability to remain still.

**G - Tardive dyskinesia** - Tardive dyskinesia is a potentially irreversible and disabling side effect of prolonged exposure (months to years) to dopamine receptor antagonists such as antipsychotics and certain antiemetics. It is a subtype of EPS and involves motor symptoms, which are seen here. However, this patient has only been taking fluphenazine for 2 weeks. Furthermore, the most common manifestations of tardive dyskinesia are involuntary orofacial movements, whereas this patient's motor symptoms are neither involuntary nor orofacial.

**H - Drug-induced mania** - Drug-induced mania can be caused by medications such as stimulants and corticosteroids, and antidepressant medications can induce hypomania or mania in patients with bipolar disorder. This patient's restlessness, poor sleep, and anxiety would fit with the diagnosis of drug-induced mania, but she is not taking antidepressants, corticosteroids, or stimulants. Mania is not a typical side effect of antipsychotics and is not a subtype of EPS.

