### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Ventricular fibrillation** - Sudden cardiac death (SCD) after MI is usually due to ventricular tachyarrhythmias such as ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. These ventricular arrhythmias result in dysfunctional ventricular contraction, which compromises cardiac output and ultimately leads to asystole. Patients with ventricular fibrillation require rapid defibrillation and CPR, otherwise hemodynamic instability can lead to loss of consciousness and SCD, which is the leading cause of death post-MI.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Papillary muscle rupture** - Papillary wall rupture, which results from weakening of the cardiac tissue due to macrophage-mediated reorganization, most commonly occurs 2–7 days after MI and manifests with features of mitral regurgitation (e.g., cough, bilateral crackles, hypotension). This complication is very unlikely to cause sudden cardiac death immediately after MI.

**B - Left ventricular failure** - Depending on the extent and distribution of an MI, contractility of the left ventricle can decrease to the point of left ventricular failure. While acute left heart failure secondary to MI does present with shortness of breath and chest pain, it typically occurs several hours after MI and is thus not the most common cause of SCD.

**D - Pericarditis** - Fibrinous pericarditis, which results from tissue necrosis and inflammation, can develop 1–3 days after MI. Dressler syndrome, a form of pericarditis and complication of MI that results from the development of circulating antibodies against cardiac muscle cells in response to antigens released from necrotic heart tissue, can develop weeks to months after MI. These complications are very unlikely to cause sudden cardiac death immediately after MI.

**E - Free wall rupture** - MI can cause weakness of the ventricular free wall, which makes it prone to rupture under the high pressures of systole. This results in cardiac tamponade and is often fatal. However, ventricular free wall rupture occurs usually within 5–14 days after MI, when necrosis has had time to sufficiently weaken the ventricular free wall tissue, not during first hour post-MI.

**F - Septal wall rupture** - Septal wall rupture, which results from weakening of the cardiac tissue due to macrophage-mediated reorganization, most commonly occurs 3–5 days after MI and manifests with holosystolic murmurs caused by a ventricular septal defect. This complication is very unlikely to cause sudden cardiac death immediately after MI.

**G - Pulmonary embolism** - Pulmonary embolism (PE) is a relatively rare complication of MI and can develop as a result of decreased cardiac output and prolonged immobilization, which increase the risk of developing venous thromboembolism. PE is not the most common cause of sudden cardiac death after MI.

