### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Acute kidney injury** - In cholesterol embolization syndrome, ruptured plaque material can seed anywhere in the peripheral arteries, including the renal arteries, which subsequently impairs kidney function, manifesting as acute or subacute kidney injury.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Lipodermatosclerosis** - Lipodermatosclerosis is a classic finding in chronic venous disease (CVD), which is characterized by chronic inflammation and fibrosis of the skin and subcutaneous tissue. It presents with painfully indurated skin and, in advanced stages, atrophic skin plaques (atrophie blanche). It would not manifest with bluish-purple discolorations of the skin. While CVD can be painful, this patient lacks other classical features of CVD, such as edema and pain that worsens on standing (and is relieved when the legs are raised).

Image File: 322-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5930185877d7b.jpg

**C - Disseminated intravascular coagulation** - In early stages, DIC can manifest with painful, bluish-purple discoloration of digits. However, the absence of a possible trigger for coagulopathy (such as infection or sepsis) makes another condition more likely in this patient. The patient also lacks other cutaneous findings indicating DIC, such as petechiae and purpura.

**D - Compartment syndrome** - Lower extremity compartment syndrome is caused by acute, sharp increases in tissue pressures within the muscular compartment of the lower legs, resulting in acute limb ischemia. It is classically trauma-induced but can also be caused by shock and coagulopathy. Patients often present with signs of acute limb ischemia (the 6 P's). Depending on the amount of internal tissue pressure, peripheral pulses are often still palpable (as in this patient). However, the combination of the warm foot, the localization of the pain (in the toes), and the amount of pain (not out of proportion to the extent of injury) is inconsistent with compartment syndrome.

**E - Basophilia** - Basophilia is not a typical finding in cholesterol embolization syndrome. Rather, increased eosinophils are commonly detected (in up to 80% of cases). Eosinophilia is assumed to be the result of a cytokine-mediated disorder, but the exact mechanism is not yet fully understood.

**F - Popliteal aneurysm** - Popliteal aneurysms are the result of chronic lower limb ischemia (peripheral artery disease, or PAD). Popliteal aneurysms are high-risk locations for obstruction of blood flow and subsequent thrombi formation, which can then embolize distally. Coronary heart disease, which this patient has, and PAD do share some of the same risk factors. However, there is no evidence for PAD in this patient's history (e.g., intermittent claudication). Furthermore, signs of embolization are seen in both feet, which suggests that the source of embolization is above the aortic bifurcation.

**G - Permanent flexion contracture** - Volkmann contracture is a complication of upper extremity compartment syndrome that occurs after permanent ischemia of the flexor muscles and the hand and fingers. It is often caused by applying plaster casts that are too tight and ultimately results in a claw-like deformity of the fingers, hand, and wrist. This patient does not have signs of upper limb ischemia such as pain, pallor, or paresthesias. Another complication of cholesterol embolization syndrome is more likely.

**H - Migratory thrombophlebitis** - Migratory thrombophlebitis is an obliterating inflammation of the superficial veins that can be caused by vasculitis, contaminated IV catheters, or occult malignancy. It typically presents as a tender, indurated erythema along the course of a vein. Occasionally, a cord-like structure (thrombosed vein) can be palpated. Cholesterol embolization usually involves peripheral arterial embolization and does not affect the superficial veins. Another complication is more likely.

