### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Intravenous procainamide** - Prompt pharmacologic cardioversion with intravenous antiarrhythmics such as procainamide, sotalol, or amiodarone is the first-line treatment for hemodynamically stable patients with sustained monomorphic VT. If pharmacologic treatment is unsuccessful or if the patient develops signs of hemodynamically unstable VT, electrical cardioversion should be performed.

This patient has a history of myocardial infarctions and ischemic heart disease, which is the most common cause of VT.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Intravenous magnesium sulfate** - Intravenous magnesium sulfate is the first-line treatment for hemodynamically stable patients with torsades de pointes (TdP), a type of VT that occurs in individuals with a prolonged QT interval. The characteristic ECG finding of TdP is polymorphic VT with wide QRS complexes that appear to be twisting around the isoelectric line, producing a spindle-shaped pattern. This patient's ECG shows monomorphic VT.

Image File: 323-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ff4077a7a91.jpg

**C - Synchronized cardioversion** - Synchronized cardioversion under sedation is the first-line treatment for patients with sustained monomorphic VT who are hemodynamically unstable but have a palpable pulse. This patient is hemodynamically stable, so a different approach is indicated. If the patient fails to respond to the initial treatment, electrical cardioversion should be performed.

**D - Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator** - An implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) reduces the risk of sudden cardiac death in patients with recurrent VT despite management of reversible causes. An ICD is not indicated in the acute management of patients with VT. Patients with VT need to be investigated and treated for reversible causes before receiving an ICD.

**E - Defibrillation** - Defibrillation and cardiopulmonary resuscitation are indicated in hemodynamically unstable patients with pulseless VT or with polymorphic VT and a palpable pulse. This patient has sustained monomorphic VT and is hemodynamically stable, which confirms that he has a pulse, so defibrillation is not indicated.

