### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Coxsackie virus infection** - Coxsackievirus B is the most common cause of viral myocarditis in children and adolescents. The myocarditis is sometimes preceded by flulike symptoms, as in this patient. Although the condition is often asymptomatic, severe, potentially fatal courses (due to cardiac arrhythmias or cardiogenic shock) are possible and are more common in children. To assess the severity of this patient's cardiac dysfunction, an ECG would be an appropriate next step.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Acute rheumatic fever** - Acute rheumatic fever occurs mostly in children and is characterized by rheumatic (e.g., polyarthritis, subcutaneous nodules), cardiac (e.g. myocarditis), and neurologic manifestations (e.g., Sydenham chorea). Since this patient meets only one criterion of the Jones criteria (myocarditis), acute rheumatic fever is unlikely.

**B - Giant cell myocarditis** - Giant cell myocarditis is a rare and usually fulminant type of autoimmune myocarditis. The exact cause is unknown, but a T lymphocyte-mediated inflammatory reaction seems likely. Although giant cell myocarditis would present with features similar to those seen in this patient (dyspnea on exertion, chest pain, and swollen ankles), the disease typically worsens very rapidly over the course of one or two days, which is not the case here.

**C - Borrelia burgdorferi infection** - Borrelia burgdorferi infection is the cause of Lyme disease, which can result in symptomatic myocarditis. Although this patient was recently at a summer camp in Colorado, Lyme disease is not endemic in this region and there is no evidence of typical early-stage manifestations in this patient (e.g., erythema migrans). Moreover, myocarditis would be expected only in a later stage of Lyme disease (e.g., early disseminated disease), which manifests weeks to months after infection.

**E - Respiratory syncytial virus infection** - Respiratory syncytial virus infection mainly affects infants and young children, but it can affect people of all ages. While it is theoretically possible that it was the cause of this patient's lower respiratory tract infection, it is not associated with myocarditis and, therefore, unlikely to have caused her present symptoms.

**F - Rhinovirus infection** - Although a rhinovirus infection may have caused this patient's upper respiratory tract infection, there are only a handful of reports of it being associated with myocarditis.

