### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Smoking cessation** - Idiopathic APBs can occur in otherwise healthy individuals. The diagnosis requires ruling out organic causes such as structural heart disease or electrolyte imbalances, neither of which are found in this patient. Therapeutic options mainly include counseling to avoid potential triggers, such as caffeine and/or alcohol consumption, stress, and smoking. In symptomatic cases (e.g., tachycardia or ventricular response), electrophysiological evaluation with concurrent ablation or medical therapy with beta blockers can be considered.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Diltiazem therapy** - No clear evidence exists regarding the efficacy of calcium channel blockers like diltiazem (antiarrhythmic class IV) in treating symptomatic APBs. Also, medical therapy should only be considered after a trial of trigger avoidance.

**B - Coronary angiography** - A coronary angiogram is indicated in patients with signs of symptomatic coronary artery disease to determine the presence and extent of obstruction and possibly to administer treatment (coronary angioplasty). However, symptomatic CAD usually presents with chest pain and shortness of breath. Furthermore, normal ECG findings in this man make symptomatic CAD even less likely.

**C - Radiofrequency ablation** - Other than occasional palpitations, this patient does not experience serious symptoms or changes in his vital signs. In symptomatic cases (e.g., tachycardia or ventricular response) with electrophysiological evaluation showing a manifest trigger, concurrent radiofrequency ablation can be considered, especially if there is concern for cardiomyopathy secondary to frequent APBs, or in cases resistant to medical therapy.

**D - Metoprolol therapy** - In the absence of contraindications, oral metoprolol (class II antiarrhythmic agent) and other antiarrhythmics (class IA, IC, III) can be used to reduce symptoms and frequency of APBs. However, medical therapy should only be considered after a trial of trigger avoidance (e.g., cessation of caffeine and/or alcohol intake, stress, smoking).

**E - Flecainide therapy** - Flecainide is a class IC antiarrhythmic agent that can also be used as 2nd-line therapy to reduce symptoms and frequency of APBs. Other steps should be conducted before considering class IC antiarrhythmics.

**F - Permanent pacemaker placement** - The placement of a permanent pacemaker is most commonly indicated for symptomatic bradyarrhythmias without a reversible cause, such as AV block or sick sinus syndrome. APB without an organic cause is not an indication for pacemaker placement.

