### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Arterial hypertension** - Hypertensive nephrosclerosis is the result of renal vascular injury secondary to long-standing arterial hypertension, which was noted in this patient's history. The kidney biopsy findings of sclerosis in the capillary tufts and arterial hyalinosis are caused by chronic damage from increased capillary hydrostatic pressure in the glomeruli as well as ischemic damage as renal arterioles progressively narrow. Patients with nephrosclerosis present with elevated blood pressure and laboratory findings suggestive of impaired renal function, including elevated BUN/creatinine and proteinuria. Some patients may also have microangiopathic hemolytic anemia.

Image File: 327-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dee773fb768c.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Diabetes mellitus** - Diabetic nephropathy is the leading cause of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in the industrialized world. While this patient has a history of diabetes, renal biopsy in diabetic nephropathy would typically show glomerular basement membrane thickening on light microscopy, with increased mesangial matrix and round eosinophilic nodules in the glomeruli (Kimmelstiel-Wilson nodules). This patient's hemoglobin A1c of < 7% indicates well-controlled diabetes and the absence of these findings on kidney biopsy make diabetic nephropathy an unlikely cause of his ESRD.

**B - Amyloidosis** - Amyloidosis is a potential cause of nephrotic syndrome in adults. While this condition can be associated with chronic infections (such as hepatitis C) and would result in proteinuria and peripheral edema, amyloidosis classically presents in patients with multiple myeloma and signs of extrarenal organ involvement, such as restrictive cardiomyopathy, as opposed to coronary artery disease. Moreover, renal biopsy in amyloidosis would show green birefringence under Congo red stain.

**D - Membranous nephropathy** - Membranous nephropathy is a common cause of nephrotic syndrome in adults. While this condition is associated with hepatitis C and may cause proteinuria and peripheral edema, membranous nephropathy would also cause hypoalbuminemia, and thickening of the glomerular capillary loops and basal membrane would be evident on light microscopy. The absence of these findings in this patient makes membranous nephropathy an unlikely cause of his end-stage renal disease.

**E - Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis** - Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) is potential cause of nephrotic syndrome in adults. Although this condition is associated with hepatitis C and would cause proteinuria and peripheral edema, MPGN would also cause hypoalbuminemia and basement membrane thickening and splitting with IgG or C3 deposits (“train-track” appearance) would be evident on electron microscopy.

**F - Renal artery stenosis** - Renal artery stenosis is a possible cause of chronic kidney disease and secondary hypertension (HTN). Although this patient has multiple risk factors for renal artery stenosis, including HTN, atherosclerotic disease, and diabetes, physical exam findings in renal artery stenosis would include auscultation of a bruit over the flank or abdomen. The absence of an abdominal bruit and the findings from this patient's kidney biopsy suggest his end-stage renal disease is caused by a different mechanism.

