### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Clozapine** - Clozapine is used primarily for schizophrenia resistant to first-line pharmacological therapy. While it is highly effective in the treatment of schizophrenia, it has serious adverse effects, which can include the life-threatening agranulocytosis seen in this patient. About 1–2% of all patients who begin taking clozapine eventually develop agranulocytosis (usually in the first months of treatment), though this risk falls substantially after the first year. The most common symptoms of agranulocytosis are oral ulcerations, fever, malaise, and increased susceptibility to infections such as pneumonia.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Olanzapine** - Olanzapine is an atypical antipsychotic that is commonly used as first-line treatment for schizophrenia. Adverse effects include weight gain, hyperglycemia, and orthostatic hypotension, but it does not typically cause agranulocytosis. Furthermore, it is rarely used for refractory schizophrenia, making it an unlikely cause of this patient's symptoms.

**C - Haloperidol** - Haloperidol is a high-potency antipsychotic that can cause extrapyramidal and anticholinergic adverse effects, neither of which are seen in this patient. This patient's agranulocytosis is not an expected adverse effect.

**D - Risperidone** - Risperidone is an atypical antipsychotic that can cause hyperprolactinemia, which may lead to gynecomastia. This patient's agranulocytosis is not a typical adverse effect.

**E - Chlorpromazine** - Chlorpromazine is a medium-potency antipsychotic used for schizophrenia in addition to bipolar disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and nausea. It can cause extrapyramidal and anticholinergic symptoms, but this patient's agranulocytosis is not a typical adverse effect.

**F - Quetiapine** - Quetiapine is an atypical antipsychotic that can cause sedation, metabolic syndrome, hyperglycemia, and weight gain. This patient's agranulocytosis is not a typical adverse effect.

