### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Observation and rest** - Premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) are often asymptomatic but can manifest with a feeling of “skipped beats;” PVCs only cause chest pain or fatigue in very rare cases. This patient's lack of sleep and stress of studying are most likely triggering her PVCs. Other common triggers include caffeine, alcohol, or nicotine consumption. In patients with frequent or long episodes of PVCs, further diagnostic studies are indicated (e.g., echocardiography) to assess for underlying heart disease. Because this is the first incident of PVCs in this patient, no treatment is necessary at this time; however, observation and rest should be recommended to reduce the frequency of these episodes.

Image File: 330-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6005b07a9ac22.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Echocardiography** - Echocardiography is indicated in the case of frequent and recurring premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) to assess for underlying heart disease. Because this is the first time PVCs have occurred in this patient, no further diagnostic studies are necessary at this time.

**C - Electrical cardioversion** - Electrical cardioversion is commonly used for atrial fibrillation, atrial tachycardia, and ventricular tachycardia. As seen on the ECG, this patient has a normal sinus rhythm with occasional premature ventricular contractions. Electrical cardioversion would, therefore, be unnecessary.

**D - Pharmacologic cardioversion** - Pharmacologic cardioversion is commonly used in patients with new-onset atrial fibrillation. This patient has a normal sinus rhythm on ECG with occasional PVCs, which makes pharmacologic cardioversion unnecessary.

**E - Beta blockers** - Beta blockers or possibly calcium channel blockers can be used as antiarrhythmics in patients with PVCs who present with severe symptoms (e.g., lightheadedness, dizziness) or with a high frequency of PVCs. As this is the first incident of PVCs and she is only presenting with mild symptoms linked to a possible trigger, no pharmacotherapy is necessary at this time.

**F - Cardiac catheter ablation** - Cardiac catheter ablation can be used to treat arrhythmias by scarring areas of the heart from which these arrhythmias arise. In patients with PVCs who are refractory to medical therapy, cardiac catheter ablation can be considered.

