### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Interventricular septal hypertrophy** - Interventricular septal hypertrophy is seen in patients with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy and is the most common cause of sudden cardiac death in athletes under the age of 30. The condition is often asymptomatic but can cause life-threatening arrhythmias and sudden death as in this patient. A systolic ejection murmur that increases with valsalva maneuver and standing and decreases with hand grip, squatting, or lying down can be an important clue toward the diagnosis.

Image File: 332-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8e498f442.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Defect in the atrial septum** - Atrial septal defects are relatively common with ∼ 2/1000 live births and can lead to congestive heart failure and arrhythmias if left untreated. However, symptoms usually manifest later on in life, and sudden cardiac death in a previously asymptomatic patient is very unlikely.

Image File: 332-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_56586745170ba.jpg

**B - Embolus in the pulmonary artery** - Pulmonary embolism is often triggered by physical exercise/strain. Although a large pulmonary embolism can lead to shock with circulatory collapse and sudden death, risk factors such as immobility and hypercoagulability or symptoms of deep vein thrombosis are usually present. While the diagnosis cannot be definitively excluded here, a different cause of death is more likely in a young athlete.

**C - Cardiac myxoid tumor** - Cardiac myxoid tumors (e.g., atrial myxomas) most commonly occur in the left heart and can cause obstruction and damage to the mitral valve. While congestive heart failure and rarely sudden cardiac death can occur in untreated patients, symptoms such as weight loss, pallor, dyspnea on exertion, and palpitations are more common. Additionally, cardiac myxomas most frequently occur in adults between 40–60 years.

**D - Postductal narrowing of the aorta** - Postductal narrowing of the aorta would be present in a patient with coarctation of the aorta. Although coarctation of the aorta can very rarely lead to sudden cardiac death, patients more typically present with hypertension in the upper extremities as well as hypotension and claudication of the lower extremities. Sudden death in a previously asymptomatic patient would be unlikely.

Image File: 332-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5db0708ce465f.jpg

**E - Enlarged descending aorta** - An enlarged descending aorta would be present in a patient with a thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA), which can lead to sudden death if it ruptures (or even more rarely if it dissects). However, generally rupture or dissection in a nontraumatic setting will be preceded by at least a short period of severe chest and/or back pain before collapse. Additionally, TAAs are usually found in older adults. They can occur in young patients, but mainly in those with connective tissue diseases (e.g., Marfan syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome) and occur most commonly in the ascending aorta. This patient has no positive family or personal history nor specific signs to suspect these conditions, such as long fingers, hyperextensible joints, or hyperelastic skin. This combination of factors means that this finding is less likely the cause of his sudden death.

**F - Atheromatous plaque rupture** - Atheromatous plaque rupture would be seen in a patient with myocardial infarction (MI). Although MI is a common cause of sudden cardiac death, MI due to arteriosclerosis is rare in young patients unless they have a hereditary condition such as familial hypercholesterolemia. This patient has no family or personal history of serious illness so that a congenital lipid disorder is unlikely.

Image File: 332-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ea99aaac4dba.jpg

**H - Pericardial fluid collection** - A pericardial fluid collection (pericardial effusion) can lead to pericardial tamponade. While pericardial tamponade can cause cardiogenic shock and subsequent death, especially if the fluid accumulates quickly, other symptoms such as chest pain and dyspnea usually precede a collapse. Furthermore, this patient has no history of chest trauma or conditions such as pericarditis, which are commonly associated with pericardial tamponade.

Image File: 332-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_55095f233320e.jpg

