### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Intracranial hemorrhage** - Patients with untreated aortic coarctation usually develop secondary hypertension, resulting in an increased risk of intracranial hemorrhage. Moreover, aortic coarctation is associated with intracranial aneurysm formation (due to hypertension and/or genetic risk factors), which increases the risk of hemorrhage due to aneurysm rupture. Other complications of aortic coarctation include aortic dissection, coronary artery disease, ischemic stroke, endocarditis, and heart failure.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Central cyanosis** - Central cyanosis is seen in patients with congenital heart defects that lead to right-to-left shunting, such as tetralogy of Fallot and transposition of the great vessels. It is not typically seen in aortic coarctation, which is considered an acyanotic heart defect. Cyanotic heart defects usually become evident in the newborn period, often manifesting with acute, life-threatening episodes of cyanosis. If left untreated, most defects are fatal within the first year of life.

**C - Paradoxical embolism** - Paradoxical embolism is a possible complication of shunts that allow a thrombus to pass from venous to arterial circulation, such as patent foramen ovale and atrial septal defect (ASD). Since both of these conditions are usually asymptomatic, intermittent claudication would not be expected. Moreover, unlike this patient's murmur, ASD manifests with a mid-systolic pulmonary flow or ejection murmur accompanied by wide, fixed splitting of S2.

**D - Abdominal aortic aneurysm** - Risk factors for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) include smoking, advanced age, atherosclerosis, and arterial hypertension. Although aortic coarctation often leads to secondary hypertension, blood flow in the vessels distal to the constriction at the aortic isthmus is actually decreased, resulting in hypotension of the lower extremities. Therefore, the risk of AAA is not increased. However, increased blood flow proximal to the constriction increases the risk of dilation of the aorta and subsequent dissection.

**E - Right heart failure** - Left ventricular outflow tract obstruction caused by aortic coarctation results in compensatory left ventricular hypertrophy and arterial hypertension, either of which can eventually result in left-sided heart failure. Although right-sided heart failure can occur secondary to left-sided heart failure, this patient is at a higher risk of a different complication.

