### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Prescribe aspirin** - Niacin upregulates prostaglandin synthesis in the skin by activating a G-protein coupled receptor in keratinocytes and dermal Langerhans cells. These prostaglandins cause cutaneous flushing, which is sometimes accompanied by paresthesias such as tingling or itching. The flushing typically begins within an hour of niacin intake. NSAIDs (e.g., aspirin, ibuprofen) taken 30–60 minutes before niacin can prevent flushing by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis. Alternatively, the use of an extended-release niacin formulation, which is associated with less flushing, can be considered. Niacin-induced flushing often subsides over the course of a few weeks as a result of tachyphylaxis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Prescribe oral prednisone** - Corticosteroid therapy is not indicated because the underlying mechanism of this patient's symptoms is not an immune-mediated process.

**C - Measure urine hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels** - A urine test for 5-HIAA is indicated if carcinoid syndrome is suspected. Carcinoid syndrome, which is caused by carcinoid lung and GI tumors, has a peak incidence between the 5th and 7th decades of life and it would result in episodic flushing. Itching has also been reported in some patients. However, patients also have other symptoms such as diarrhea and/or wheezing. Do not be distracted by the history of chronic smoking or the family history of colonic adenocarcinoma and SCLC in this patient! Smoking is not associated with an increased risk of carcinoid tumors, and neither colonic adenocarcinoma nor SCLC are associated with carcinoid syndrome.

**D - Prescribe diphenhydramine** - Antihistamines (e.g., diphenhydramine) are used to treat urticaria (a histamine-mediated process!), which can occur following the introduction of a new drug and cause itching as well as erythema that disappears within minutes to hours. However, urticarial lesions have a characteristic appearance – pale or pink edematous lesions surround by a red flare (“wheals”) – unlike the generalized erythema in this patient. Moreover, drug-induced urticaria occurs more rapidly and with greater severity with repeated dosing. Antihistamine therapy is not indicated for this patient because the underlying mechanism of her symptoms is not a histamine-mediated process.

**E - Measure urine metanephrine levels** - A urine test for fractionated metanephrines is indicated if pheochromocytoma is suspected. A pheochromocytoma has a peak incidence between the third and fifth decades of life, and is the underlying cause for hypertension in 0.5–1% of cases. However, adequate blood pressure control by a single antihypertensive drug suggests a diagnosis of essential hypertension rather than secondary hypertension. Moreover, this patient does not have paroxysms of headache, palpitations, or sweating that are characteristic of a pheochromocytoma. In a patient with pheochromocytoma, flushing can occur as a result of reactive vasodilation after paroxysms of hypertension. However, itching would not be expected.

**F - Switch hydrochlorothiazide to lisinopril** - Switching hydrochlorothiazide to lisinopril does not improve blood pressure control or drug safety (there are no known interactions between hydrochlorothiazide and niacin). Coadministration of NSAIDs and ACE inhibitors is typically avoided due to the potential attenuation of antihypertensive effects.

**G - Switch niacin to fenofibrate** - Fibrates (e.g., fenofibrate) can cause a 30–50% decrease in the levels of triglycerides but can only cause a mild reduction in LDL. In this patient with a high LDL of 172 mg/dL and only mildly elevated triglycerides, a medication that adequately controls LDL such as niacin is necessary.

