### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Mobitz type I AV block** - This patient presents with typical features of Mobitz type I AV block on ECG. The condition is usually asymptomatic, but may present with an irregular pulse, bradycardia, reduced cardiac output, and subsequent symptoms of hypoperfusion (e.g., dizziness, syncope). Treatment is recommended for symptomatic and/or hemodynamically unstable patients (e.g., pacemaker, atropine). Although no immediate treatment is necessary, the patient should be clinically assessed for underlying diseases (e.g., structural heart diseases, electrolyte imbalances) and receive follow-ups with cardiac monitoring to evaluate progression of the disease.

Image File: 338-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6007074f9e09c.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Myocardial infarction** - A myocardial infarction (MI) most commonly occurs in individuals with coronary heart disease secondary to atherosclerosis. While this patient's risk for a MI is increased (positive family history, hypercholesterolemia) and an atypical presentation with few symptoms (e.g., no dyspnea, chest pain) is possible, his ECG findings indicate another condition rather than MI.

Image File: 338-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_54eb1ff74583d.jpg

**B - Third-degree AV block** - A third-degree AV block is characterized by a complete interruption of atrioventricular conduction, characterized by P waves and QRS complexes that occur at regular intervals but are dissociated from one another. The resulting bradycardia and possible brief episodes of asystole may lead to cerebral hypoperfusion (e.g., fatigue, dizziness), dyspnea, Stokes-Adams attacks, or cardiac arrest. This patient's ECG indicates impaired AV conduction, but not a complete block.

Image File: 338-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_613217419eb54.jpg

**C - Mobitz type II AV block** - An ECG of a Mobitz type II AV block typically shows single or intermittent non-conducted P waves that are not followed by QRS complexes. In contrast to the ECG seen in this patient, the PR interval remains constant. In addition, the resulting bradycardia leads to reduced cardiac output and causes symptoms of fatigue, dizziness, and dyspnea that are not seen in this patient.

**E - Atrial fibrillation** - Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a sustained cardiac arrhythmia characterized by an altered heart rate (most commonly tachycardia), indiscernible P waves, and narrow QRS complexes (< 0.12 seconds) on ECG. While individuals with AF are often asymptomatic as this patients, the absence of typical findings on ECG rules out this diagnosis.

Image File: 338-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60511f1660f6f.jpg

**F - Atrial flutter** - Atrial flutter is a supraventricular tachyarrhythmia that shows a characteristic sawtooth appearance of the P waves with a rate of approx. 300 bpm, and regular, but narrow QRS complexes. While the condition is more common in men and tends to be asymptomatic, the absence of typical features on ECG rules out this diagnosis.

Image File: 338-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_605214a4d2d6c.jpg

**G - First-degree AV block** - First-degree AV blocks are often an incidental finding on ECG in otherwise healthy individuals (e.g., athletes). While the condition is usually asymptomatic, a characteristic feature is a PR interval > 200 ms with a normal atrial to ventricular conduction, which rules out the diagnosis in this patient.

Image File: 338-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_54e4997515855.jpg

**H - Ventricular fibrillation** - Ventricular fibrillation (VF) is a life-threatening cardiac arrhythmia most commonly associated with coronary heart disease (CHD). While this patient is at increased risk for CHD (positive family history, hypercholesterolemia), he shows no symptoms of VF (e.g., chest pain, palpitations, dyspnea). The absence of typical features on ECG, including absent atrial P waves, indiscernible QRS complexes, and tachycardia > 300 bpm rule out this diagnosis.

Image File: 338-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_598843b732e51.jpg

