### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Prolonged QT interval** - A prolonged QT interval may be congenital or acquired, and typically remains asymptomatic until patients present with syncope or life-threatening arrhythmias such as torsade de pointes, as seen in this patient. Acquired prolongation of the QT interval can be caused by certain medications (e.g., amiodarone, methadone, ondansetron) or electrolyte imbalances (e.g., hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and hypocalcemia). This patient's history of ondansetron and methadone therapy makes drug-induced QT prolongation that progressed to torsade de pointes the most likely cause of his syncope.

Image File: 339-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60f71561a0cab.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Acute myocardial ischemia** - Acute myocardial ischemia can present with syncope and, in some cases, ventricular tachyarrhythmia, which is seen in this patient with risk factors for coronary artery disease (DM and hypertension). However, he lacks other typical features of acute myocardial ischemia, such as chest pain, lasting ECG changes (e.g., ST changes), and elevated cardiac enzymes.

**C - Shortened PR interval** - A shortened PR interval can be seen in pre-excitation syndromes such as Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) and Lown-Ganong-Levine (LGL) syndrome. While these conditions can also present with syncope, this patient lacks the characteristic findings of WPW syndrome (i.e., short PR interval, slurring and slow rise of the initial upstroke of the QRS complex, and widened QRS complex) or LGL syndrome (i.e., short PR interval with normal QRS complexes). Instead, torsade de pointes is seen, which is not a feature of these conditions. Both WPW and LGL syndrome cause atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia but not ventricular tachycardias such as torsade de pointes.

Image File: 339-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6022c8bd5b602.jpg

**D - Fast accessory conduction pathway** - A fast accessory conduction pathway can be seen in Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome, which can present with palpitation and syncope, as seen in this patient. However, typical ECG findings include a shortened PR interval (< 120 ms), slurring and slow rise of the initial upstroke of the QRS complex (delta wave), and a widened QRS complex, which are absent on this patient's ECG. WPW syndrome causes atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia but not ventricular tachycardias such as torsade de pointes.

Image File: 339-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6022c8bd5b602.jpg

**E - Prinzmetal angina** - Prinzmetal angina can lead to ventricular arrhythmias that can present with syncope and reversible ECG changes, which are seen in this patient. However, unlike in this patient, Prinzmetal angina typically presents with recurrent episodes of retrosternal chest pain or pressure radiating to the neck, jaw, left shoulder, or arm.

**F - Brugada syndrome** - Brugada syndrome can present with syncope and ventricular tachyarrhythmia, as seen in this patient. However, the characteristic ECG findings include incomplete right bundle branch block and ST-segment elevations in the anterior precordial leads, which are not seen on this patient's ECG.

Image File: 339-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60253e35f0e69.jpg

**G - Hypomagnesemia** - Hypomagnesemia is a predisposing factor for torsade de pointes. However, this patient has no risk factors for hypomagnesemia (e.g., diarrhea, alcoholism, use of diuretics) and lacks other typical features of hypomagnesemia such as neuromuscular manifestations (e.g., tetany, seizures).

