### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Left ventricular failure** - This patient's acute onset dyspnea and x-ray findings suggest cardiogenic pulmonary edema due to left ventricular failure. Individuals with left ventricular failure initially develop interstitial edema, which results in smooth reticular opacification and Kerley B lines due to accentuation of the vascular markings. With the further increase in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, individuals can develop features of alveolar edema (e.g., consolidation with an air bronchogram) and pleural effusion (e.g., blunting of the costophrenic angle). In pulmonary edema, the opacification can often assume a perihilar distribution (a so-called “batwing” or “butterfly-shaped” pattern), which is seen here, because the periphery of the lung has better lymphatic drainage than the central regions.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Tricuspid regurgitation** - Tricuspid regurgitation is a rare valvular condition. It typically manifests with clinical features of right heart failure, such as jugular venous distention, pulsatile hepatomegaly, and pedal edema, none of which are seen here. Moreover, the chest x-ray findings for tricuspid regurgitation typically include right atrial and right ventricular enlargement, unlike the left ventricular enlargement seen on this patient's x-ray.

Image File: 340-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60d336b721108.jpg

**C - Spontaneous pneumothorax** - Spontaneous pneumothorax causes acute onset dyspnea, and a chest x-ray would show a radiolucent region without lung markings (air collection). This patient's chest x-ray findings are inconsistent with a pneumothorax.

Image File: 340-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5aba6b11d0754.jpg

**D - Acute respiratory distress syndrome** - Acute respiratory distress syndrome can cause dyspnea, and a chest x-ray would show butterfly-shaped perihilar opacification, which is seen here. However, this patient's cardiomegaly suggests a chronic underlying cardiovascular condition and, thus, a cardiac cause for the pulmonary edema.

Image File: 340-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6076e1e6ceb1d.jpg

**E - Pulmonary embolism** - Pulmonary embolism can cause acute onset dyspnea as well as blunting of the costophrenic angle due to a pleural effusion caused by pulmonary infarction. Kerley B lines and butterfly-shaped perihilar opacities would not, however, be seen in pulmonary embolism. The chest x-ray findings associated with pulmonary embolism are relatively nonsensitive and nonspecific and include wedge-shaped pulmonary opacification due to pulmonary infarction, a regional decrease in pulmonary vascular markings, and enlargement of the pulmonary artery, none of which are seen here.

Image File: 340-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_547454f18d972.jpg

**F - Pulmonary emphysema** - Smoking is an important risk factor for pulmonary emphysema, which causes dyspnea and fatigue. However, the symptoms of emphysema typically evolve over months and years rather than a few days. Moreover, the characteristic x-ray findings for emphysema are increased lung lucency and flattening of the diaphragm due to hyperinflation. This patient's x-ray findings are inconsistent with pulmonary emphysema.

Image File: 340-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5639fcbd76261.jpg

**G - Interstitial pneumonia** - Certain infectious causes of interstitial pneumonia (e.g., Mycoplasma pneumonia, Pneumocystis pneumonia) lead to acute onset dyspnea, fatigue, and perihilar interstitial infiltrates. However, blunting of the costophrenic angle (due to pleural effusion) is uncommon in both Mycoplasma and Pneumocystis pneumonia, and features such as cardiomegaly and Kerley B lines would not be expected in interstitial pneumonia.

Image File: 340-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fc6613a726bc.jpg

**H - Bronchial asthma** - An acute exacerbation of bronchial asthma can cause acute onset dyspnea, and the x-ray would be normal or show evidence of hyperinflation (e.g., increased lung lucency, flattening of the diaphragm). This patient's x-ray findings are inconsistent with bronchial asthma.

Image File: 340-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ffe9b8f66010.jpg

**I - Pulmonary fibrosis** - Smoking is an important risk factor for pulmonary fibrosis, which can cause dyspnea and reticular opacification. However, the symptoms of pulmonary fibrosis typically evolve over months and years rather than a few days. In addition, the reticular opacification of pulmonary fibrosis manifests with honeycombing of the lung, and it typically affects the base of the lungs, unlike the butterfly-shaped perihilar reticular opacities seen here. Moreover, the x-ray findings of Kerley B lines and blunting of the costophrenic angle are inconsistent with pulmonary fibrosis.

Image File: 340-I
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6139dda1e4f46.jpg

