### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Cardiac tamponade** - Pericarditis is a common cause of cardiac tamponade; it may occur in cases in which the pericardium becomes scarred and less elastic, while increased amounts of inflammatory fluids are secreted into the pericardial space. Other causes of cardiac tamponade include uremia and aortic dissection.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Papillary muscle rupture** - Papillary muscle rupture is a life-threatening complication of acute myocardial infarction that leads to mitral regurgitation with subsequent hypotension and pulmonary edema. Although this patient presents with chest pain, symptoms of acute MI do not usually last for three consecutive days and present with more specific findings on ECG, making papillary muscle rupture very unlikely.

**B - Pulmonary infarction** - Pulmonary infarction is most commonly caused by pulmonary embolism, which can also present with chest pain and nonspecific ST elevation. However, other common features of PE would be expected, including dyspnea, tachypnea, cough, hypotension, or signs of right ventricular pressure overload on ECG (e.g., right axis deviation). The absence of these symptoms in this case, as well as the presence of a friction rub on auscultation, make pulmonary embolism and therefore pulmonary infarction unlikely.

**C - Mediastinitis** - Mediastinitis may occur as a result of esophageal disorders (e.g., Boerhaave syndrome). Patients with Boerhaave syndrome often present with a history of explosive vomiting and symptoms such as retrosternal pain and mediastinal emphysema (Mackler triad). The retrosternal pain seen in this patient makes Boerhaave syndrome an important differential diagnosis. However, in this case, the patient's history, auscultatory and ECG findings are suggestive of a different disease.

**E - Ventricular aneurysm** - A ventricular aneurysm is a late (> 3 weeks) complication of myocardial infarction that presents with persistent ST elevations and T-wave inversions on ECG and can lead to cardiac arrhythmias and thromboembolisms. Although this patient presents with chest pain, symptoms of acute MI do not usually last for three consecutive days and present with more specific findings on ECG. Consider the timing and that MI is unlikely, ventricular aneurysm can be ruled out.

