### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation** - Atrial fibrillation is a supraventricular tachyarrhythmia caused by uncoordinated atrial activation. Although usually asymptomatic, it can also cause symptoms such as this patient's dizziness and palpitations. In particular, acute alcohol consumption often triggers paroxysmal A-fib (also known as “holiday heart syndrome”), which subsides within 7 days without intervention. As in this patient, an ECG shows irregular RR intervals, indiscernible p waves, and tachycardia with narrow QRS complexes. To prevent future episodes, this patient should abstain from alcohol in the future.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy** - Hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy is a hereditary disease of the myocardium that is characterized by asymmetric hypertrophy of the left ventricle. Although it is usually asymptomatic and often an incidental finding, it can cause syncope and/or lethal arrhythmias that lead to sudden cardiac death, typically during periods of physical exertion. In some cases, it can cause palpitations and dizziness as in this patient. However, ECG findings would show abnormally deep Q waves and signs of left ventricular hypertrophy (according to the Sokolow-Lyon Index).

**B - Dilated cardiomyopathy** - Dilated cardiomyopathy is a unilateral or global enlargement of the myocardium, which leads to limited contractility and a subsequent decrease in pumping function. Although the condition could explain this patient's arrhythmia, palpitations, and dizziness, other specific signs of right ventricular failure (e.g. peripheral pitting edema, signs of increased central venous pressure) or left ventricular failure (e.g. pulmonary edema, dyspnea) are not present, making this condition very unlikely.

**D - Brugada syndrome** - Brugada syndrome is a genetically inherited disorder that causes a repolarization abnormality and occurs more commonly in males of Asian descent. Although it is usually asymptomatic, it can cause palpitations and dizziness, as in this patient, which may also be triggered by substance abuse or alcohol consumption. However, an ECG would show a persistent ST elevation in V1–V2 with intact p waves.

**E - Ventricular tachycardia** - Ventricular tachycardia is a potentially life-threatening arrhythmia originating in the ventricles and is associated with structural heart disease or myocardial infarction. Although it can present with palpitations, which may also be triggered by substance abuse or alcohol consumption, ECG findings would show AV dissociation and broad QRS complexes with a heart rate > 120 bpm.

**F - Sick sinus syndrome** - Sick sinus syndrome is due to a dysfunctional sinoatrial node that can cause bradyarrhythmias and/or supraventricular tachyarrhythmias. Although it can present with an irregular rhythm with narrow QRS complexes and no discernable p-waves, ECG findings usually also show sinoatrial pauses or “tachycardia-bradycardia” cycling. In addition, sick sinus syndrome is associated with coronary artery or structural heart diseases. This patient's age, history of a single event, and ECG findings make sick sinus syndrome an unlikely explanation for his symptoms.

