### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Aortic wall stress** - This patient most likely has a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm. The pathophysiology of abdominal aortic aneurysms is not fully understood, but numerous genetic and environmental factors, such as smoking, are believed to cause inflammation and proteolysis of connective tissue within the aortic wall. This leads to loss of structural integrity and weakening of the aorta. When high aortic wall stresses are applied, as in hypertension, further weakening, widening, and rupture of the aortic wall can occur. Abdominal aortic aneurysms are most commonly located below the renal arteries (infrarenal).

Image File: 348-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f1e98fb28ef2.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Coronary artery narrowing** - Coronary atherosclerosis resulting narrowing of the vessel lumen is involved in the pathophysiology of angina pectoris and myocardial infarction. Coronary atherosclerosis leads to narrowing of the arterial lumen, which decreases the blood flow to the myocardium. During exercise, myocardial flow is unable to meet increased myocardial demand, which causes myocardial ischemia and symptoms of angina. While smoking increases the risk for MI, this man's history of acute onset, stabbing abdominal pain with an umbilical mass and hypotension suggest a different disease process.

**C - Mesenteric atherosclerosis** - Mesenteric atherosclerosis is involved in the pathophysiology of chronic mesenteric ischemia, in which intestinal blood flow is reduced. In the postprandial period, there is a mismatch between low splanchnic blood flow and high intestinal metabolic demand, which leads to postprandial ischemia and pain within an hour of eating. Bloating, nausea, and weight-loss due to food aversion are common symptoms. This man has acute-onset, stabbing abdominal pain with an umbilical mass and hypotension, features that suggest a different, more emergent disease process.

**D - Gastric mucosal ulceration** - Gastric mucosal ulceration is involved in the pathophysiology of peptic ulcer disease. One of the complications of this disease is gastric or duodenal perforation, which presents with sudden onset, stabbing abdominal pain, and distention that can progress to peritonitis. This man's periumbilical mass, abdominal bruit, and hypotension are inconsistent with a perforated duodenal or gastric ulcer.

**E - Abdominal wall defect** - Abdominal wall defects can predispose patients to hernia formation. Uncomplicated hernias are typically asymptomatic and occur when intra-abdominal contents protrude through congenital defects or areas of weakness in the abdominal wall. Complicated hernias include incarcerated hernias (irreducible), strangulated hernias (disrupted blood supply), or obstructed hernias (kinked intestine), and typically present with acute pain at the site of the hernia and possible bowel obstruction. Although this patient has a periumbilical mass, he also has an abdominal bruit and hypotension, suggesting a different etiology for his symptoms.

**F - Portal vein stasis** - Portal vein stasis predisposes patients to the formation of acute portal vein thrombosis, which presents with right upper quadrant or generalized abdominal pain. Portal vein thrombosis often arises as a complication of cirrhosis, but this patient lacks symptoms of chronic liver disease (jaundice, pruritus, hepatosplenomegaly, telangiectasias, caput medusae, gynecomastia). Furthermore, this man's periumbilical mass and abdominal bruit suggest a different cause for his symptoms.

