### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Creatine kinase MB** - Creatine kinase MB levels are specific for myocardial injury, peak 12–24 hours after an infarction, and take only 2–3 days to normalize. Based on these kinetics, CK-MB elevations should have normalized since this patient's MI 3 days ago. Current elevations in CK-MB would therefore indicate a reinfarction as the etiology of his chest pain.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Lactate dehydrogenase** - LDH levels peak 2–7 days after an infarction and can take 10–20 days to normalize. Based on these kinetics, elevated LDH would not allow a prior infarction to be reliably distinguished from a reinfarction. Furthermore, LDH is found in cardiac muscles, kidneys, and erythrocytes, meaning that elevations are not specific to MIs.

**C - Cardiac troponin T** - Although cardiac troponin T is one of the most sensitive biomarkers for MI, it can take 6–14 days for levels to return to normal. A single elevated troponin T level 3 days after a MI would not allow for reliable differentiation between a prior infarct and a reinfarction. Serial troponin T levels can help differentiate between a recent infarct and reinfarction. Specifically, a 20% increase in troponin T levels 3–6 hours after obtaining an initial troponin T level for recurrence of chest pain suggests a reinfarction. However, troponin T levels would not be the fastest method of establishing the diagnosis.

**D - Copeptin** - Copeptin may be elevated early in the course of a MI. However, there is insufficient data to support its clinical use in diagnosing MIs and limited data on how well it allows recent MIs to be differentiated from reinfarctions.

**E - Aspartate aminotransferase** - AST levels peak 18–36 hours after an infarction and can take 3–6 days to normalize after a MI. Therefore, an elevated AST level may not allow a prior infarction to be reliable distinguished from a reinfarction. Moreover, because AST can be found in cardiac muscle, skeletal muscle, and the liver, elevations would not be specific to a MI.

**F - Myoglobin** - Because myoglobin levels peak 6–12 hours after an MI and normalize within 24 hours, elevated levels would suggest a new infarction. However, myoglobin is not specific to cardiac muscles, and elevations can be found in other conditions (e.g., skeletal muscle damage). Therefore, a biomarker more specific to cardiac injury should be used in this case for diagnosis.

