### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Increased heart rate** - An increase in heart rate is the first compensatory mechanism for hypovolemic shock and may be seen as early as class I hemorrhagic shock. In this patient, blood loss has resulted in hypovolemia and decreased stroke volume. The heart rate increases (as a result of intracardiac and arterial baroreceptor reflexes) to help maintain cardiac output. Initially, this mechanism may be sufficient to compensate for volume loss; patients in class I hemorrhagic shock may be otherwise asymptomatic. As shock progresses, compensatory mechanisms become overwhelmed by volume loss, resulting in further derangements in vital signs (e.g., tachycardia, hypotension, tachypnea, hypoxemia) and damage to multiple organ systems.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Increased production of lactic acid** - Increased production of lactic acid occurs as a result of the body's inability to meet tissue demand for oxygen. This occurs in the later phase of shock; it is not the first physiologic response. Blood loss in hemorrhagic shock results in poor tissue perfusion. Consequently, cells are unable to maintain aerobic metabolism and revert to anaerobic metabolism, a less efficient mechanism that causes increased production of lactic acid. Blood is simultaneously shunted away from the extremities to more vital organs, such as the heart and brain, further decreasing the supply of oxygen to peripheral tissues.

**C - Decreased urine output** - In response to the hypovolemic state of hemorrhagic shock, urine output decreases in an attempt to preserve the remaining circulatory volume. However, this physiologic response does not occur until class II of hemorrhagic shock and, therefore, would not be the first one to occur in this patient.

**D - Increased firing of chemoreceptors** - Increased firing of chemoreceptors occurs in patients with hemorrhagic shock in response to hypoxia of the carotid body and metabolic acidosis (caused by decreased tissue perfusion and increased lactic acid production). The chemoreceptor reflex augments the baroreceptor reflex in activating the sympathetic nervous system. However, this occurs in the later phases of shock; it is not the first physiologic response.

**E - Increased capillary refill time** - Peripheral vasoconstriction is an early response to hypovolemia, which causes decreased tissue perfusion and leads to an increased capillary refill time. However, the peripheral capillaries of the skin and the nails are not typically involved until class II of hemorrhagic shock. Therefore, increased capillary refill time is not the first physiologic response to occur in this patient.

**F - Decreased systolic blood pressure** - Hemorrhagic shock results in the depletion of intravascular volume. However, because of several compensatory mechanisms, the body is initially able to maintain blood pressure and tissue perfusion via peripheral vasoconstriction, which may lead to a narrowed pulse pressure; a decreased systolic blood pressure is not the first physiologic response. As shock progresses (class III hemorrhagic shock), the compensatory mechanisms are overwhelmed by hypovolemia, and the systolic blood pressure decreases.

**G - Increased respiratory rate** - The respiratory rate increases in patients with hemorrhagic shock because tachypnea helps to alleviate the metabolic acidosis caused by decreased tissue perfusion and increased lactic acid production. However, this physiologic response does not occur until class II of hemorrhagic shock and, therefore, would not be the first one to occur in this patient.

