### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Warfarin** - In a patient who has recently suffered a TIA and is found to have atrial fibrillation (irregular pulse, no distinct P waves), anticoagulation therapy should be initiated immediately to prevent any future episodes of TIA or stroke that may be caused by the underlying atrial fibrillation (AF). In addition to anticoagulation, new-onset atrial fibrillation should be treated with either rate control or rhythm control strategy. In any patient with newly diagnosed nonvalvular AF, a CHA2DS2-VASc score should be calculated to assess the risk of systemic embolization. This patient's score is 6, which indicates a risk of stroke per year of > 9%. Her score is based on age (+1 if 65–74 years of age), sex (+1 for females), history of hypertension (+1), TIA (+2), and history of diabetes mellitus (+1). In patients with AF and a score ≥ 2, oral anticoagulation with either warfarin or newer oral anticoagulants is indicated.

Image File: 353-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_612e13abdfc85.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Atorvastatin** - Atorvastatin is indicated in patients with TIA or ischemic stroke to reduce the risk of recurrence. Moreover, it is indicated in all patients with carotid artery stenosis to prevent progression of the disease. While treatment with a statin should be started in this patient, her TIA was most likely caused by thromboembolism related to atrial fibrillation, which would not be prevented by atorvastatin.

**B - Enalapril** - Enalapril therapy is used to treat hypertension, the most important modifiable risk factor for ischemic stroke. This patient would benefit from better blood pressure management, but her TIA was most likely caused by thromboembolism related to atrial fibrillation. This drug is unlikely to prevent future TIA episodes related to atrial fibrillation.

**C - Carotid endarterectomy** - Carotid endarterectomy is used to treat severe carotid artery stenosis (CAS). The procedure should be considered in female patients with symptomatic CAS with ≥ 70% stenosis and in asymptomatic patients with ≥ 80 stenosis. This patient has only mild CAS. In addition, this patient's CAS is unlikely to be the cause of her TIA. Instead, her TIA is more likely due to a thromboembolic complication of atrial fibrillation (AF), which would not be prevented by carotid endarterectomy.

**E - Alteplase** - Alteplase is used early (< 4.5 hours) in patients with an ischemic stroke due to a thrombus. This woman had a TIA and her symptoms have already resolved. Therefore, alteplase therapy is no longer indicated. Moreover, this drug is not used to prevent future TIA episodes.

**F - Aspirin** - Aspirin is used as an antiplatelet agent in patients with TIA or ischemic stroke to reduce the risk of recurrence. However, this drug is ineffective for preventing thromboembolism related to atrial fibrillation because it is not an anticoagulant. In this patient with evidence for a cardioembolic etiology, a different drug is more likely to prevent future neurologic symptoms.

**G - Clopidogrel** - Clopidogrel is used as an antiplatelet agent in patients with TIA or ischemic stroke to reduce the risk of recurrence. However, this drug is ineffective for preventing thromboembolism related to atrial fibrillation because it is not an anticoagulant. In this patient with evidence for a cardioembolic etiology, a different drug is more likely to prevent future neurologic symptoms.

**H - Aortic valve replacement** - Aortic valve replacement is required for severe, symptomatic aortic stenosis. This patient has a murmur that is consistent with mitral valve prolapse rather than aortic stenosis (AS would manifest with a harsh crescendo-decrescendo systolic ejection murmur with radiation to the carotids). Moreover, this patient most likely has had a TIA due to thromboembolism related to atrial fibrillation. Aortic valve replacement would not be beneficial in preventing future TIA episodes.

