### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Compression stockings** - The presence of bilateral lower extremity pitting edema, dilated tortuous veins (varicose veins), and excoriation marks (indicating pruritic dermatitis) in the absence of other systemic findings (e.g., hepatomegaly, bilateral pulmonary crackles, jugular venous distension, or an S3 gallop) strongly suggests chronic venous insufficiency (CVI). Initial management of CVI involves conservative measures to reduce symptoms (e.g., pain, swelling, skin pigmentation) and prevent progression of the disease (e.g., ulceration, infection). Compression stockings, which are the mainstay of conservative therapy, are used for symptomatic management by increasing pressure in the interstitial space and reducing fluid extravasation by opposing hydrostatic forces.

Image File: 354-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5769bf9d148cb.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Sclerotherapy** - Although sclerotherapy is a treatment option for varicose veins, it is less effective than other available options in treating valve incompetence of medium- to large-sized veins. Additionally, this patient's diagnosis must be confirmed before any invasive treatment options are offered.

**B - Diuretic therapy** - Diuretic therapy should be considered if the patient's leg edema was due to congestive heart failure. The lack of pulmonary findings (shortness of breath, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, crackles) or cardiac findings (chest discomfort, extra heart sounds or murmurs, jugular venous distention) makes CHF an unlikely diagnosis. Additionally, treatment should not be initiated until the underlying cause of her edema has been determined.

Image File: 354-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5357a6c9f3e95.jpg

**C - Ankle-brachial index** - The ankle-brachial index would be the test of choice if peripheral artery disease (PAD) was suspected. While this patient does have risk factors for PAD (smoking, hypertension) and a history of arterial disease (coronary artery disease), the lack of leg pain with exertion (intermittent claudication) and the finding of normal peripheral pulses, make PAD unlikely. Also, PAD does not usually present with pitting edema, unless there is comorbid heart disease.

Image File: 354-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91fac9e0.jpg

**E - Duplex ultrasonography** - Duplex ultrasonography is the imaging modality of choice to confirm the diagnosis of chronic venous insufficiency (CVI) because it is noninvasive and inexpensive. However, CVI is primarily a clinical diagnosis and is managed conservatively before imaging is required. If clinical diagnosis of venous insufficiency or obstruction cannot be established and/or conservative therapy fails, further evaluation with duplex ultrasonography should be undertaken. Conducting duplex ultrasonography helps determine the underlying etiology (reflux, obstruction, or reflux and obstruction), specific anatomical sites involved (deep or superficial veins, perforators, or greater veins), the severity of the disease, and whether the patient has a coexisting peripheral artery disease. Venous insufficiency appears as reflux of blood through the affected vein, suggesting incompetent venous valves. Duplex ultrasonography can also determine the patency of the deep lower extremity veins, ruling out more concerning causes of venous hypertension, such as chronic vein thrombosis.

**F - Echocardiography** - Echocardiography would be the test of choice if congestive heart failure (CHF) was the suspected etiology of this patient's leg edema. Her hypertension and coronary artery disease put her at risk for CHF. Because this patient lacks pulmonary findings (shortness of breath, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, crackles) or cardiac findings (chest discomfort, extra heart sounds or murmurs, jugular venous distention) to suggest CHF, echocardiography is not the best initial test.

**G - Contrast venography** - Contrast venography can be used for surgical planning for chronic venous disease (CVD). However, it is expensive and has been largely replaced by less invasive tests. Because this patient's diagnosis needs to be confirmed before surgical treatment options can be planned, contrast venography would not be indicated at this time.

