### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Abrupt standing** - The characteristic auscultatory finding of mitral valve prolapse (MVP) is a high-frequency mid-systolic click, which is caused by sudden tensing of the chordae tendineae as the valve leaflets prolapse. The click may be followed by a mid-to-late systolic murmur indicating mitral regurgitation. Since the prolapse occurs when the contracting ventricle reaches a critical volume, the timing of the click varies according to the left ventricular end-diastolic volume (EDV). Decreased EDV, e.g., due to decreased venous return to the heart during abrupt standing (i.e., decreased preload) causes the leaflets to prolapse sooner, resulting in an earlier onset (i.e., closer to S1) and an increased intensity of auscultatory findings. Conversely, maneuvers that increase the volume (e.g., squatting) result in a later onset and decreased intensity.

Image File: 355-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8fa812d65.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hand grip** - The characteristic click heard on auscultation in patients with mitral valve prolapse (MVP) results from the bulging of the valve leaflets into the atrium, which begins when the contracting left ventricle reaches a critical volume during systole. An increased left ventricular end-diastolic volume, e.g., due to increased afterload and subsequent increased left ventricular end-systolic volume during hand grip (hand clenching) delays the point when that volume is reached and results in a later onset of the auscultatory findings.

**C - Rapid squatting** - The characteristic click heard on auscultation in patients with mitral valve prolapse (MVP) results from the bulging of the valve leaflets into the atrium, which begins when the contracting left ventricle reaches a critical volume during systole. An increased left ventricular end-diastolic volume, e.g., due to increased venous return to the heart during rapid squatting (i.e., increased preload) delays the point when that volume is reached and results in a later onset of the auscultatory findings.

**D - Valsalva release phase** - The characteristic click heard on auscultation in patients with mitral valve prolapse (MVP) results from the bulging of the valve leaflets into the atrium, which begins when the contracting left ventricle reaches a critical volume during systole. An increased left ventricular end-diastolic volume, e.g., due to increased venous return to the heart during the release phase of the Valsalva maneuver (i.e., increased preload) delays the point when that volume is reached and results in a later onset of the auscultatory findings.

**E - Leaning forward** - Leaning forward brings the heart closer to the chest, but it has no significant impact on preload or afterload, so it does not affect the timing of the murmur of mitral valve prolapse. However, a pericardial friction rub and the murmur of aortic regurgitation are best heard with the patient leaning forward.

