### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy** - Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is the most common hereditary heart disease and may be obstructive or non-obstructive. HCM may be asymptomatic or present with exertional dyspnea, syncope (as in this patient), cardiac arrhythmias, heart murmurs, or sudden cardiac death (particularly during or after intense physical activity). As is the case here, HCM is typically associated with a harsh crescendo-decrescendo systolic ejection murmur at the left lower sternal border that increases in intensity with maneuvers that decrease left ventricular filling (Valsalva maneuver and standing), and decreases in intensity with maneuvers that increases left ventricular filling (squatting or passive leg elevation).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Prolonged QT interval** - A prolonged QT interval may be congenital or acquired. It typically remains asymptomatic until patients present with syncope, seizures, or life-threatening arrhythmias. Syncope in young patients should raise suspicion of a congenital long QT syndrome. However, these syndromes would not account for the murmurs in this patient.

**C - Bicuspid aortic valve** - While a bicuspid aortic valve is associated with early-onset aortic stenosis, which would cause a systolic murmur, maneuvers that increase venous return like passive elevation of the legs would increase the intensity of this murmur. Furthermore, an aortic stenosis murmur is best heard at the right upper sternal border.

**D - Mitral valve prolapse** - Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) is the most common heart valve abnormality and the most common cause of mitral regurgitation (MR). MVP is typically associated with a mid-to-late systolic crescendo murmur best heard at the cardiac apex. As in this patient, maneuvers that increase ventricular volumes (e.g., passive leg elevation) will cause the murmur typical of MVP to diminish or be delayed. Passive leg elevation results in increased right ventricular volume, right ventricular output, and, subsequently, increased left ventricular volume. However, the murmur in MVP is also associated with a midsystolic click, which is absent in this patient. Furthermore, syncope does not typically occur in MVP.

Image File: 358-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb8fa812d65.jpg

**E - Orthostatic syncope** - Orthostatic hypotension occurs as a result of hypovolemia (dehydration, hemorrhage, or use of diuretics), insufficient counterregulation due to autonomic dysfunction, or as a side effect of medication (vasodilators). This patient has no significant changes in hemodynamics on standing, and his murmurs would not be explained by orthostatic hypotension, making this choice unlikely.

**F - Vasovagal syncope** - Vasovagal syncope is neurally-mediated syncope caused by parasympathetic hyperactivity and/or sympathetic hypoactivity, leading to bradycardia and/or vasodilation. These physiologic responses lead to a decrease in blood pressure and cerebral perfusion. It is usually triggered by prolonged standing, emotional stress, or painful stimuli, none of which is part of this patient's history. Furthermore, vasovagal syncope would not explain the murmurs seen in this patient.

**G - Carotid sinus syndrome** - Carotid sinus syndrome can cause neurally-mediated syncope due to hypersensitivity of the afferent or efferent limbs of the carotid sinus reflex arc. This results in bradycardia and/or vasodilation. Syncope is often triggered when pressure is applied to the carotid sinus. This patient's history of passing out while moving furniture is not consistent with this diagnosis. Furthermore, carotid sinus syndrome cannot explain the murmurs in this patient.

**H - Mitral valve stenosis** - Mitral valve stenosis (MVS) can also present with exertional dizziness. However, MVS causes a delayed, decrescendo diastolic murmur that is best heard at the cardiac apex. Unlike this patient's cardiac murmur, the murmur of MVS would increase with maneuvers that increase venous return and cardiac preload.

Image File: 358-H
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5acb87d493973.jpg

