### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Occlusion of the left anterior descending artery** - This patient's persistent retrosternal chest pain with ST-segment elevation on ECG in leads I, aVL, and V1–V6 (most prominent in V2–V4) are all consistent with a STEMI caused by an occlusion of the proximal left anterior descending artery (LAD). Acute occlusion of the proximal LAD leads to infarction of the anterior wall of the left ventricle. Reciprocal ST-segment depression in leads II, III, and aVF are also characteristic of infarction of this segment of the myocardium.

Image File: 359-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5da477e9949f6.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Occlusion of the right coronary artery** - Occlusion of the proximal right coronary artery causes myocardial infarction (MI) of the inferior wall (which causes ST elevation in leads II, III, aVF) and/or the right ventricle (which causes ST elevation in leads V1 and V3r–6r on a right-sided ECG). MI of the right side of the heart often manifests with severe hypotension due to right ventricular dysfunction. If there is also infarction of the sinoatrial node and/or atrioventricular node, profound bradycardia may also be observed.

**B - Inflammation of the pericardium** - Inflammation of the pericardium (pericarditis) typically manifests with pleuritic chest pain that worsens while laying down and improves when sitting and/or leaning forward. Pericarditis is also associated with low-grade fever, nonproductive cough, shortness of breath, and a pericardial friction rub on cardiac auscultation. None of these features are present in this patient. Moreover, ECG in a patient with pericarditis would typically show diffuse ST-segment elevation and PR-segment depression.

**D - Thromboembolism to the right interlobar pulmonary artery** - A pulmonary embolism (PE) typically manifests with sinus tachycardia, which is seen in this patient. PE is also usually associated with dyspnea, hypoxemia, and pleuritic chest pain, none of which are present in this patient. In addition, PE pathophysiology causes ECG changes consistent with right ventricular strain (new RBBB, right axis deviation, or the classic constellation of an S wave in lead I, Q wave in lead III, and T-wave inversion in lead III) but not ST-segment elevations or depressions in contiguous ECG leads.

**E - Diffuse coronary vasospasm** - Diffuse coronary vasospasm (vasospastic angina or Prinzmetal angina) manifests with transient substernal chest pain with associated ST changes that last approximately 5 to 15 minutes. This patient's chest pain has lasted for more than 2 hours and ECG shows persistent ST-segment elevations. These findings are consistent with a different cause of the patient's chest pain.

**F - Occlusion of the left circumflex artery** - Occlusion of the left circumflex artery would cause a lateral wall myocardial infarction. Infarction of the muscle supplied by the left circumflex artery manifests on ECG as ST-segment elevation in leads I, aVL, and/or V5–V6.

**G - Tear in the intimal lining of the aorta** - Aortic dissection is caused by a tear in the intimal lining of the aorta. An aortic dissection typically manifests with the sudden onset of severe chest pain described as “tearing” or “ripping”. Radiation to the area between the scapulae is also very common. Aortic dissection is associated with asymmetrical blood pressure in the upper extremities and can progress to cardiac tamponade (ascending dissection), which leads to hypotension and cardiogenic shock. This patient has none of these symptoms. Furthermore, the presence of ST elevations on ECG would be a rare finding with aortic dissection, making a different cause much more likely.

