### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Bupropion** - The preferred first-line treatment for MDD is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) such as sertraline. Response to the antidepressant is assessed 6–12 weeks after initiating treatment. If the patient has minimal response to the initial therapy or experiences significant adverse effects, the antidepressant should be replaced with a different one by cross-tapering. The class of antidepressants that should be prescribed as a replacement depends on the type of depressive symptoms (e.g., hypersomnia vs. hyposomnia, hyperphagia vs. anorexia, weight gain vs. weight loss) and the side effects from the initial drug (e.g., SSRIs can cause drowsiness, anorgasmia, and decreased libido). This patient has lethargy, difficulty concentrating, and weight gain, and would therefore benefit from switching to bupropion, an atypical antidepressant that has a stimulant effect and is associated with weight loss. Bupropion also does not cause sexual dysfunction.

If the patient has a partial response to the initial antidepressant with minimal adverse effects, augmentation therapy with another medication (e.g., a different antidepressant, an atypical antipsychotic, lithium, liothyronine) or with psychotherapy is considered. If the patient has a complete response to the initial antidepressant prescribed for the first onset of a major depressive episode, the drug is continued for another 6–12 months (continuation phase therapy) after which it can be gradually tapered off if the patient remains in remission. Therapy beyond this period (maintenance phase therapy) is considered for patients with a history of recurrent, long-lasting, and/or severe major depressive episodes.

Question Difficulty: 0

** Other Answers: **

**A - Trazodone** - Trazodone is an atypical antidepressant that causes sedation. An antidepressant without a sedative effect is necessary for this patient with drowsiness, lethargy, and difficulty concentrating. Moreover, if trazodone is used as monotherapy for MDD, high doses of trazodone are needed for an antidepressant effect and are associated with an increased risk of other side effects (e.g., cardiotoxicity, hypertension, priapism). Trazodone is primarily used in low doses for the treatment of insomnia or as an augmentation agent for the treatment of MDD if the patient has insomnia as a predominant symptom.

**C - Aripiprazole** - Aripiprazole is an atypical antipsychotic and can be used as an augmentation agent if the patient has a partial response to the initial therapy. However, antipsychotics are not used as monotherapy for MDD.

**D - Imipramine** - Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), such as imipramine, can cause sedation, but also have other significant side effects, including anticholinergic effects (e.g., urinary retention, dry mouth), and are only used in exceptional cases. Switching to an antidepressant with a better side effect profile would be more appropriate.

**E - Paroxetine** - In cases where the patient has minimal response to sertraline, switching to another selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), such as paroxetine, can be helpful. However, this patient is experiencing drowsiness, a possible side effect of all SSRIs. Moreover, paroxetine is an SSRI that can cause weight gain. For this patient, switching to another antidepressant class with a more favorable side effect profile is appropriate.

**F - Buspirone** - The anxiolytic buspirone is used primarily for the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder. There is no evidence to support the use of buspirone as either a monotherapy or augmentation agent in the treatment of MDD.

