### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Oral atorvastatin** - This patient with ST segment elevation on ECG and elevated troponin T was correctly started on unfractionated heparin, dual antiplatelet therapy (aspirin and ticagrelor), and sublingual nitroglycerin for his STEMI. He would also benefit from early initiation of a high-dose statin such as atorvastatin. This intervention has been shown to improve long-term outcomes regardless of baseline LDL and cholesterol levels.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral metoprolol** - While beta blockers such as metoprolol succinate are given as part of the initial management of acute coronary syndrome, they are contraindicated in patients with bradycardia, hypotension, cardiogenic shock, or signs of heart failure. Because this patient has both hypotension and a low heart rate, beta blockers should not be used until his vital signs stabilize.

**B - Intravenous morphine** - Intravenous morphine administration in the management of acute MI is reserved for patients with severe anxiety or severe, persistent chest pain, as it is associated with a higher adjusted risk of death. This patient was already given sublingual nitroglycerin, which provided pain relief, so intravenous morphine is not indicated.

**D - Intravenous furosemide** - Intravenous furosemide is indicated in patients with myocardial infarctions who have evidence of left ventricular failure such as acute pulmonary edema. This patient had a normal pulmonary examination, making pulmonary edema unlikely. Moreover, furosemide is contraindicated in patients with severe hypotension.

**E - Intravenous insulin** - Intravenous insulin is not indicated in this patient because his blood glucose levels are < 180 mg/dL, which is the target level for patients with myocardial infarction regardless of the presence of diabetes mellitus.

**F - Intravenous nitroglycerin** - Intravenous nitroglycerin is indicated in patients with persistent symptoms and/or persistent chest pain. This patient was already given sublingual nitroglycerin, which provided pain relief, so intravenous nitroglycerin is not required.

