### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Elevated hemoglobin A1c** - Transposition of the great arteries is a cyanotic heart condition that is associated with maternal diabetes. Mothers with untreated diabetes will have an elevated HbA1c. Other potential neonatal complications from maternal diabetes include macrosomia (seen in this patient), polycythemia, hypoglycemia, hypocalcemia, and respiratory distress syndrome.

Image File: 361-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58de495fcbb38.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increased serum TSH** - An increased serum TSH concentration suggests hypothyroidism. Subclinical maternal hypothyroidism can increase the risk for future cognitive impairment, but it is not associated with transposition of the great arteries.

**B - Prenatal alcohol consumption** - Prenatal alcohol consumption can cause fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD). FASD can manifest with a wide range of cardiac abnormalities, including atrial septal defects, ventricular septal defects, and great heart vessel defects. However, structural heart defects also typically manifest in combination with other more characteristic FASD findings, such as facial abnormalities (e.g., short palpebral fissures, thin vermillion border, smooth philtrum).

Image File: 361-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5add98081962c.jpg

**C - Prenatal phenytoin intake** - Prenatal phenytoin intake is associated with fetal hydantoin syndrome. Although cases of congenital heart defects have been reported with maternal phenytoin use, transposition of the great arteries is rare. Furthermore, fetal hydantoin syndrome manifests with nail hypoplasia, hypoplasia of the digits, and abnormal facial features, none of which is seen in this patient.

**D - Prenatal lithium intake** - Prenatal lithium intake is associated with Ebstein anomaly. This anomaly has a wide range of clinical presentations, including congenital cyanosis from right-to-left shunting. Depending on the severity of the anomaly, patients can develop a holosystolic murmur (due to tricuspid regurgitation), as heard in this patient. However, chest x-ray shows a box-shaped heart (due to the severe right-sided cardiomegaly from hypertrophy), not the egg-on-a-string sign seen in this patient. Furthermore, lithium intake is not associated with transposition of the great arteries.

Image File: 361-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58a427be992c1.jpg

**E - Positive rapid plasma reagin test** - A positive rapid plasma reagin test suggests a diagnosis of maternal syphilis, which can infect the infant in utero. Most cases of early congenital syphilis are asymptomatic at birth; symptoms do not typically develop until 5 weeks of life. If symptomatic at birth, findings include hepatosplenomegaly, jaundice, nasal discharge, generalized lymphadenopathy, skeletal abnormalities, and pemphigus syphiliticus, none of which are seen in this patient. Transposition of the great arteries is not associated with congenital syphilis.

Image File: 361-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d942405be.jpg

