### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Exercise ECG test** - Patients with an intermediate pretest probability should undergo additional evaluation with cardiac stress testing to further risk stratify, as positive results in these individuals are most likely to indicate true underlying coronary artery disease. The exercise ECG test is the most appropriate type of cardiac stress test for this patient, who does not have any contraindications to exercise stress testing, has a normal resting ECG, and exercises regularly, indicating that he is likely able to achieve the target of 85% of the maximum heart rate.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - No further testing needed** - Individuals with a low pretest probability of coronary artery disease (CAD) should not undergo any further diagnostic testing, as a positive test result in a low-risk patient is likely to be a false positive. However, this patient has an intermediate pretest probability of CAD and would benefit from further testing.

**B - Troponin I measurement** - Troponin I is elevated in acute myocardial infarction and can be a useful tool in the workup of suspected acute coronary syndrome (ACS). In this patient, the absence of unprovoked chest pain at rest and signs of ischemia on ECG (e.g., ST segment changes) make ACS unlikely, and his presentation is more consistent with stable ischemic heart disease. Therefore, troponin I is likely to be negative and of little value here.

**C - Stress myocardial perfusion imaging** - Stress myocardial perfusion imaging is a cardiac nuclear stress test performed in patients with suspected stable ischemic heart disease who have an abnormal resting ECG but are able to achieve their target heart rate through exercise. Although cardiac stress testing is indicated in this patient, who has an intermediate pretest probability of coronary artery disease, he has a normal resting ECG. Therefore, stress myocardial perfusion imaging is not the test of choice in this patient.

**D - Cardiac catheterization** - Cardiac catheterization is the gold standard for diagnosing coronary artery disease (CAD) because it provides information on coronary blood flow, direct visualization of the coronary arteries, and opportunity for therapeutic intervention (percutaneous coronary intervention). However, cardiac catheterization is reserved for patients with STEMI and high-risk non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome due to the invasive nature of the procedure. Although it may also be considered in patients with a high pretest probability of CAD, this patient has an intermediate pretest probability of CAD and should undergo further noninvasive testing before cardiac catheterization.

**E - Dipyridamole stress echocardiography** - Dipyridamole stress echocardiography is a type of pharmacological stress test performed in patients with suspected stable ischemic heart disease who have an abnormal resting ECG or are unable to exert themselves sufficiently to achieve the target heart rate. Although cardiac stress testing is indicated in this patient with an intermediate pretest probability of coronary artery disease (CAD), he has a normal resting ECG and good activity tolerance. Dipyridamole stress echocardiography is therefore not the test of choice in this patient.

