### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Create a pericardial window** - Creating a pericardial window is the most appropriate treatment for this patient with hemodynamically stable cardiac tamponade. In this surgical procedure, part of the pericardium is removed to continuously drain excess fluid from the pericardial space into the pleural cavity, providing pericardial decompression. Pericardial window is often indicated in recurrent malignant pericardial effusion, which is seen in this patient, because it prevents the reaccumulation of fluid and, therefore, offers definitive treatment.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform serial echocardiography** - Serial echocardiography (e.g., every five to seven days) can be used to monitor patients with pericardial effusion who are asymptomatic and show no signs of hemodynamic compromise. However, this patient presents with signs and symptoms that suggest cardiac tamponade, which, untreated, can progress to acute heart failure. Therefore, a conservative approach is not appropriate.

**C - Administer sublingual nitroglycerin** - Administering sublingual nitroglycerin is indicated for the treatment of angina pectoris, which manifests with symptoms such as chest pain and shortness of breath, both of which are seen here. Although this patient is known to have coronary heart disease, her history of lung cancer and recent pericardiocentesis, as well as evidence of cardiac tamponade, indicate recurrent malignant pericardial effusion. Vasodilators, such as nitrates, should be avoided in patients with cardiac tamponade to prevent hypotension and hemodynamic instability.

**D - Administer intravenous furosemide** - Administering intravenous furosemide is indicated in patients with congestive heart failure, which often manifests with symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, and orthopnea, all of which are seen here. However, this patient's history of lung cancer and recent pericardiocentesis, as well as evidence of cardiac tamponade, indicate recurrent malignant pericardial effusion. Diuretics should be avoided in patients with cardiac tamponade to prevent hypovolemia and hemodynamic instability.

**E - Administer oral colchicine** - Colchicine is indicated for the treatment of acute pericarditis because it alleviates symptoms and reduces the rate of recurrence. Acute pericarditis typically manifests with low-grade fever, pleuritic chest pain, and pericardial friction rub on auscultation, none of which are seen in this patient. An ECG would show diffuse, concave-shaped ST elevations with or without PR depression. Although acute pericarditis can potentially cause pericardial effusion, this patient's history of lung cancer and recent pericardiocentesis suggest recurrent malignant pericardial effusion. Furthermore, colchicine is relatively contraindicated in patients with renal insufficiency, which is seen here.

**F - Discontinue cisplatin** - Chemotherapeutic agents, such as doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, are associated with increased risk for pericarditis and pericardial effusion. Cisplatin, however, is not known to cause pericardial effusion. Discontinuing this drug would neither treat this patient's current condition nor prevent recurrent pericardial effusions.

