### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Clopidogrel and simvastatin** - An antiplatelet agent, like clopidogrel, and a moderate-intensity statin, such as simvastatin, are part of the long-term management in patients with peripheral arterial disease. Antiplatelet therapy prevents critical limb ischemia, while a lipid-controlling agent helps improve the cardiovascular risk factor of hyperlipidemia. Other cardiovascular risk factors that require long-term treatment are hypertension (controlled in this patient) and hyperglycemia (for which this patient has no history of). A thorough workup of this patient is warranted, as PAD often coexists with coronary artery disease, stroke, atrial fibrillation, and renal disease.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Operative vascular reconstruction** - Operative vascular reconstruction is a bypass surgery where an autologous vein (e.g., great saphenous vein) is used to bypass the stenosis. This is a treatment option for advanced disease with critical limb ischemia that has not responded to medical therapy.

**C - Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting** - Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stenting are the treatment options for advanced PAD with critical limb ischemia and no response to medical therapy.

**D - Vancomycin and piperacillin** - Vancomycin and piperacillin is the treatment of choice for severe soft tissue infection (e.g., cellulitis). This patient does not have any erythematous skin lesions on physical exam, purulent exudate, or any systemic signs of infection such as fevers, chills, or confusion.

**E - Rest and orthotic braces** - Rest and orthotic braces is the treatment of choice for insertional tendinopathy. While tendinopathies are characterized by pain, especially on movement, they would not present with the pallor, pulselessness, and the decreased ankle-brachial index demonstrated by this patient.

**F - Cooling of the legs and fasciotomy** - Cooling of the legs and fasciotomy is the treatment of choice for acute compartment syndrome, or for chronic compartment syndrome that has failed conservative treatment. While this patient has some of the symptoms of compartment syndrome, such as pulselessness and pallor, he does not have the characteristic leg swelling or pain out of proportion to exam. A different diagnosis is much more likely.

