### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Normal saline bolus** - A normal saline bolus treats right ventricular infarction or ischemia by optimizing preload. Maintaining preload is critical because right ventricular ischemia impairs left ventricular filling in two ways: (1) it impairs right ventricular contraction, which decreases the volume delivered to the left ventricle, and (2) it reduces right ventricular relaxation, which increases the right ventricular diastolic pressure and decreases the volume of the left ventricle by pushing the septum into the left ventricle. Increasing the preload optimizes left ventricular filling and reduces hemodynamic instability in patients with right ventricular complications of inferior myocardial infarctions.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous atropine** - Intravenous atropine can be used to treat bradyarrhythmias, which frequently occur within 24 hours of inferior myocardial infarction, if symptoms such as lightheadedness, confusion, or syncope are present. However, another intervention should be considered before administering atropine, and atropine may be ineffective without first performing this intervention.

**B - Oral metoprolol** - Beta blockers such as metoprolol are used in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction to reduce myocardial oxygen demand and limit the size of the infarct. However, they are contraindicated in patients with bradycardia, hypotension, congestive heart failure, and cardiogenic shock. Treating this patient's right ventricular infarction with oral metoprolol would cause a dangerous reduction in his blood pressure and heart rate.

**C - Intravenous morphine** - Intravenous morphine is used to treat severe chest pain and anxiety in acute myocardial infarction. However, it reduces preload by inducing venous dilation; therefore, it is contraindicated in right ventricular infarction, which is preload-dependent.

**D - Sublingual nitroglycerin** - Nitroglycerin is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of acute coronary syndrome (ACS), except when any of the following are present: suspected or confirmed right ventricular involvement, hypotension, bradycardia, or recent use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors. Patients with right ventricular dysfunction, which is seen in this patient, are dependent on preload to maintain adequate blood pressure. Therefore, nitroglycerin is contraindicated in this patient.

**E - Phenylephrine infusion** - Alpha-adrenergic agonists like phenylephrine increase blood pressure by inducing peripheral vascular vasoconstriction. However, they also causes pulmonary vasoconstriction, which increases right ventricular afterload and impedes right ventricular outflow. Phenylephrine would therefore exacerbate the hemodynamic instability that occurs as a result of right ventricular infarction.

