### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Administer procainamide** - In a hemodynamically stable patient with evidence of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, antiarrhythmics that slow conduction within the aberrant pathway and/or prolong the aberrant pathway's refractory period, such as procainamide, would be used as a temporary measure. AV nodal blocking agents are avoided in patients with evidence of ventricular pre-excitation because AV nodal blockage would result in increased conduction through the aberrant pathway, which could result in life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Definitive therapy of WPW syndrome, which is radioablation of the aberrant pathway, should be performed as early as possible.

Image File: 375-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5106a45bb79f4.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform synchronized cardioversion** - Synchronized cardioversion is indicated for tachyarrhythmias with evidence of hemodynamic instability (e.g, hypotension, altered mental status, chest pain, or other signs of shock) and a palpable pulse. A different therapy is indicated for this hemodynamically stable patient.

**B - Administer magnesium sulfate** - Magnesium sulfate is indicated for patients with torsades de pointes syndrome (TdP). TdP would present with a wide QRS complex tachycardia and an irregular rhythm may be present. However, the shape/size of the QRS complex would vary from beat to beat (polymorphic ventricular tachycardia), and patients would usually have evidence of hemodynamic instability (e.g., syncope, hypotension). Also, the patient does not have risk factors for TdP such as hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, or the intake of drugs that cause QT interval prolongation (e.g., antipsychotics, antidepressants, or antiarrhythmics).

**C - Administer verapamil** - If no evidence of ventricular pre-excitation is present and the patient is hemodynamically stable, non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers (e.g., verapamil, diltiazem) can be used for long-term rate control in patients with atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, or paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. Non-dihydropyridine CCBs should be avoided in patients with evidence of pre-excitation because they cause AV nodal blockage and shorten the refractory period of the accessory pathway, which results in increased conduction through the aberrant pathway that could cause life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias.

**D - Administer atenolol** - Beta-blockers may be used for long-term rate control in hemodynamically stable patients with atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, or paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardias if no evidence of ventricular pre-excitation is seen and the patient does not have pulmonary disease. AV node blocking agents such as beta-blockers (e.g., atenolol) should be avoided in patients with evidence of pre-excitation because AV nodal blockage would result in increased conduction through the aberrant pathway, which could result in life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias.

**F - Perform unsynchronized cardioversion** - Non-synchronized electrical cardioversion is indicated for patients with polymorphic ventricular tachycardia that present with features of hemodynamic instability, pulseless ventricular tachycardia, or ventricular fibrillation. A different therapy is indicated for this hemodynamically stable patient.

**G - Administer adenosine** - In a hemodynamically stable patient with no evidence of ventricular pre-excitation, adenosine is used to terminate paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) if vagal stimulation by a carotid massage does not terminate the arrhythmia. AV node blocking agents such as adenosine should be avoided in patients with evidence of ventricular pre-excitation because AV nodal blockage would result in increased conduction through the aberrant pathway, which could result in life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias.

