### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Unsynchronized cardioversion** - Unsynchronized cardioversion, or defibrillation, should be performed immediately in a patient with ventricular fibrillation. Ventricular fibrillation is a life-threatening emergency and this patient's loss of consciousness indicates that he is already hemodynamically compromised. Although defibrillation is the only way to convert ventricular fibrillation to sinus rhythm, administration of epinephrine or amiodarone may be helpful adjuncts if the initial electrical shocks are not successful (see Advanced Cardiac Life Support). Immediate initiation of high-quality chest compressions, minimizing interruption of chest compressions, and early defibrillation are the most important factors in improving patient survival.

Image File: 378-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60ac5bb660670.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer lidocaine** - Lidocaine is an antiarrhythmic drug that can be used for the treatment of ventricular tachyarrhythmias. However, it is not first line treatment for ventricular fibrillation and should not be used before all recommended treatment options have been exhausted.

**C - Coronary angiography** - Coronary angiography is an invasive imaging modality used to diagnose ischemic heart disease. This patient's ECG is consistent with acute myocardial infarction, most likely related to cocaine-induced coronary vasospasm. Coronary angiography (and, potentially, percutaneous coronary revascularization) should be performed after stabilization of the patient in order to prevent ongoing ischemia. However, the patient is currently in ventricular fibrillation, a life-threatening arrhythmia that requires immediate treatment.

**D - Administer amiodarone** - Amiodarone is an antiarrhythmic drug that is used for the treatment of refractory ventricular fibrillation. Although this patient may benefit from administration of amiodarone as an adjunct, it is not indicated for initial management.

**E - Administer epinephrine** - Epinephrine is a vasopressor that increases myocardial blood flow and can be used to treat cardiac arrest and ventricular arrhythmias. It can be a useful as an adjunct in the management of ventricular fibrillation, which this patient has, but it is not indicated as the initial treatment.

**F - Synchronized cardioversion** - Synchronized cardioversion is used to treat atrial fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia in hemodynamically unstable patients. However, it is not an effective therapy for the treatment of ventricular fibrillation, which is present in this patient. This type of cardioversion delivers an electric shock at the peak of the QRS complex. In ventricular fibrillation, there are no QRS complexes to use for reference.

