### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Thoracic aortic rupture** - Thoracic aortic rupture can be traumatic (e.g., high-velocity blunt chest wall trauma) or spontaneous (e.g., following aortic dissection). Only around 20% of patients with blunt traumatic aortic injuries survive long enough to reach the hospital. Of those that survive, patients may initially present with symptoms of respiratory distress, as in this vignette, and often develop features of hemorrhagic shock (hypotension, tachycardia) later. The widened mediastinum, deviation of the esophagus, and depression of the left main-stem bronchus as well as hemothorax (suggested by dullness on percussion) are indicators of a ruptured blood vessel. This woman most likely has thoracic aortic rupture and needs immediate resuscitation and prompt surgical repair of the thoracic aorta.

Image File: 381-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60391097c8856.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Flail chest** - Flail chest can present with respiratory distress, as seen above. However, paradoxical chest movement is not present in this patient. Additionally, the chest x-ray shows only one fractured rib and a widened mediastinum is not associated with flail chest, making it an unlikely diagnosis.

Image File: 381-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e8dfdb2d5566.jpg

**B - Diaphragmatic rupture** - Diaphragmatic rupture commonly results from blunt or penetrating trauma and occurs more often on the left than on the right side (as the liver protects against a rupture on the right). The condition can present with respiratory distress and decreased breath sounds, as in this patient. But x-ray findings typically show herniation of abdominal organs like the stomach and colon, causing an 'hourglass' appearance rather than the widened mediastinum seen in this vignette.

Image File: 381-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d92f9f737.jpg

**C - Pulmonary contusion** - Pulmonary contusion usually occurs after blunt trauma and can present with tachycardia, respiratory distress, and hypoxia, which are all present in this patient. However, it does not commonly present with dullness on percussion. Additionally, the chest x-ray typically shows patchy alveolar infiltrates and not a widened mediastinum, as described above.

**D - Traumatic bronchial rupture** - Traumatic bronchial rupture often results from high-velocity blunt chest wall trauma and can present with respiratory distress, as seen in this patient. However, it is commonly associated with a pneumothorax and subcutaneous emphysema – features not present in this woman. Additionally, a widened mediastinum on a chest x-ray would not be expected.

Image File: 381-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d90973c56.jpg

**F - Cardiac tamponade** - Cardiac tamponade results from conditions such as pericarditis, chest trauma, malignancies, or kidney dysfunction. Cardiac tamponade can present with respiratory distress, as seen in this woman. This patient has hypotension, but she does not have the jugular venous distention or muffled heart sounds that would be expected in an individual with cardiac tamponade (Beck’s triad). Additionally, in contrast to this vignette, x-ray findings of cardiac tamponade would typically include an enlarged cardiac silhouette.

**G - Tension pneumothorax** - While a tension pneumothorax can present with tachycardia and hypoxia, as seen in this patient, the lung is typically hyperresonant and not dull to percussion. Additionally, although mediastinal shift is seen on the chest x-ray of tension pneumothorax, absent lung markings would also be expected and there would not be a widened mediastinum, as seen in this vignette.

Image File: 381-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e6b37c9f2d2d.jpg

