### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Increase aspirin dose** - NSAIDs are the first-line treatment for Dressler syndrome because they provide pain relief and have anti-inflammatory properties. Aspirin is usually preferred over other NSAIDs, because it is indicated for secondary prophylaxis after an acute MI. Combining aspirin with another NSAID increases the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding and kidney injury. The higher dosage of aspirin is maintained until symptoms resolve (usually 3–4 weeks), then tapered to the standard prophylaxis dosage. Rare complications of Dressler syndrome include pericardial effusion, pericardial tamponade, and constrictive pericarditis.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Start heparin infusion** - Heparin infusion is indicated for acute MI, which is an important differential diagnosis considering this patient's current chest pain and history of MI. However, an acute MI would not explain the diffuse ST elevation, friction rub, and the normal findings on echocardiography.

**B - Administer vancomycin and ceftriaxone** - Vancomycin and ceftriaxone should be administered if purulent pericarditis is suspected. Patients with purulent pericarditis present with fever, chest pain, a friction rub, and diffuse ST elevation, which are seen in this patient. Echocardiography would show fluid in the pericardial sac, however, which is not seen here. This patient also has no history that would predispose him to pericardial infection (i.e., pneumonia, endocarditis, or surgery).

**C - Administer prednisone** - Prednisone can be used to treat acute pericarditis and Dressler syndrome, but it is only used in situations in which the first-line treatment is not sufficient.

**D - Administer nitroglycerin** - Nitroglycerin would be a useful treatment in the setting of acute MI. This patient's chest pain and history of MI make it an important differential diagnosis. In the case of acute MI, though, the pattern of ST elevations on ECG would be expected to follow a specific distribution and no friction rub would be present. Furthermore, the findings on echocardiography would most likely not be normal.

**F - Perform pericardiocentesis** - Pericardiocentesis is part of the treatment plan for purulent pericarditis and pericardial effusion, both of which present with symptoms similar to those seen in this patient (i.e., chest pain and dyspnea). Dressler syndrome can present with effusion. However, this patient's echocardiogram did not reveal any pericardial fluid, which would make pericardiocentesis unnecessary.

