### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Alprostadil** - Alprostadil (prostaglandin E1) is used in newborns with congenital heart defects to maintain a patent ductus arteriosus. In this infant, who has transposition of the great vessels, only deoxygenated blood is pumped from the right ventricle into the aorta. Therefore, it is important that oxygenated and deoxygenated blood are mixed through a shunt flow until definitive treatment (e.g., surgery) is performed. Other ductal-dependent heart defects include tetralogy of Fallot, critical pulmonic stenosis, and pulmonary atresia.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Sildenafil** - Sildenafil, a phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor, is used to dilate pulmonary vessels in neonates with pulmonary hypertension until the underlying cause is addressed. In this patient, dilation of pulmonary vessels could decrease right to left shunting across the PDA and, thus, worsen his symptoms.

**C - Metoprolol** - Beta blockers, such as propranolol and metoprolol, are used for the treatment of neonatal hypertension and congenital long QT syndrome. In this patient, tachycardia is a compensatory mechanism and thus should not be treated with beta blockers.

**D - Indomethacin** - Indomethacin, an inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis, is used to close a patent ductus arteriosus in premature infants. In patients with transposition of the great vessels, survival depends on communication between the two parallel circulations. Hence, closure of the patent ductus arteriosus would have a deleterious effect in this infant.

**E - Dopamine** - Dopamine can be used to raise systemic blood pressure in infants with cardiogenic shock. This infant does not need a vasopressor as he is not hypotensive.

