### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Left carotid endarterectomy** - Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is indicated for asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis that is ≥ 80% in patients with a periprocedural risk of stroke ≤ 3% who have a life expectancy ≥ 5 years. CEA may also be considered in highly selected asymptomatic patients with 60–79% stenosis, but the effectiveness of CEA compared to medical management alone is not well established in this patient group. The 85% stenosis of the left carotid in this otherwise healthy patient warrants recanalization at this time to prevent future morbidity and mortality. In addition, all patients with carotid artery stenosis should receive medical treatment comprised of lifestyle modifications (e.g., physical activity), antiplatelet drugs (e.g., aspirin or clopidogrel), and statins.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Aspirin therapy only** - Aspirin therapy is used to manage carotid stenosis by reducing the risk of cardiovascular events, such as stroke. While this patient should be placed on aspirin therapy or another antiplatelet agent such as clopidogrel, medical therapy alone would not be recommended in a patient with stenosis that is > 80%.

**B - Atorvastatin therapy only** - Atorvastatin therapy is used to manage carotid stenosis by reducing the risk of cardiovascular events, such as stroke. While this patient should be placed on a long-term statin, medical therapy alone would not be recommended in a patient with stenosis that is > 80%.

**D - Carvedilol therapy only** - Carvedilol therapy is indicated to control hypertension in patients who have carotid artery stenosis. This patient is normotensive and does not require hypertension medication at this time.

**E - Reassurance** - Reassurance is not appropriate for this patient at this time. Studies have shown that the annual risk of stroke in patients with asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis ≥ 50% is 0.5–1%.

**F - Carotid artery stenting** - Carotid artery stenting (CAS) can be considered in patients with carotid stenosis who are not appropriate candidates for carotid endarterectomy, such as patients who have comorbidities that increase perioperative mortality. Compared to the treatment of choice, CAS is associated with an increased risk of adverse events in patients > 70 years. This otherwise healthy 71-year-old patient should therefore be considered for a different next step in management.

**G - Bilateral carotid endarterectomy** - Bilateral carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is not indicated at this time. CEA is indicated for asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis that is > 80%, and may also be considered in selected patients with asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis between 60% and 79%. The right carotid artery is only 55% occluded at this time and can be managed expectantly.

