### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Aortic valve regurgitation** - Aortic valve regurgitation causes a backward flow from the aorta during diastole. This backflow decreases diastolic pressure in the aorta (N = 60–90 mm Hg) and increases diastolic pressure in the left ventricle (N = 5–12 mm Hg). This regurgitant blood combines with blood from the left atrium to fill the left ventricle, which results in an increased preload and a subsequent increase in stroke volume. As a result, the systolic pressure in both the ascending aorta (N = 90–140 mm Hg) and in the left ventricle (N = 90–140 mm Hg) is increased. Oxygen saturation and right heart pressures are normal in aortic regurgitation. If left untreated, this condition leads to eccentric hypertrophy of the left ventricle and left heart failure.

Image File: 394-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5c6fb32e62a3d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Mitral stenosis** - Mitral stenosis can cause a heart murmur (decrescendo diastolic murmur), palpitations, and normal oxygen saturation, as seen in this patient. However, mitral stenosis would increase left atrial pressure (N = 2–12 mm Hg) and decrease left ventricular diastolic pressure (N = 5–12 mm Hg) due to a decreased amount of blood reaching the left ventricle during diastole, unlike the normal left atrial pressure and increased left ventricular diastolic pressure seen here. Moreover, this patient's increased systolic pressures in the aorta and left ventricle are not consistent with mitral stenosis.

Image File: 394-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5c6fb2dc0caed.jpg

**B - Mitral regurgitation** - Mitral regurgitation can cause a murmur (holosystolic murmur), palpitations, and normal oxygen saturation, as seen here. However, chronic mitral regurgitation increases left atrial pressure (N = 2–12 mm Hg), unlike the normal left atrial pressure seen here. Moreover, mitral regurgitation does not explain this patient's increased aortic or left ventricular pressure.

Image File: 394-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5c6fb387b09b3.jpg

**D - Ventricular septal defect** - Ventricular septal defects (VSD) can cause a heart murmur (holosystolic murmur) and palpitations. However, VSDs usually increase right ventricular pressure (N =15–30/1–7 mm Hg) and right ventricular oxygen saturation (N = 60–80%) due to the shunting of oxygen-rich blood from the left ventricle to the right ventricle, unlike the normal right ventricular pressure and oxygen saturation seen here. Moreover, VSD would not explain this patient's increased aortic and left ventricular pressures.

Image File: 394-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_565867ce52b14.jpg

**E - Aortic stenosis** - Aortic stenosis can cause a heart murmur (crescendo-decrescendo systolic murmur), palpitations, normal oxygen saturation, and increased left ventricular systolic pressure (due to higher ejection resistance), as seen here. However, aortic systolic pressure would be decreased in these patients, not increased. Additionally, a decreased diastolic pressure in the aorta is inconsistent with aortic stenosis.

Image File: 394-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5c6fb3ee6b8e2.jpg

**F - Atrial septal defect** - Atrial septal defects (ASD) can cause a heart murmur (systolic pulmonary ejection murmur) and palpitations, both of which are seen in this patient. However, in the case of an ASD, pressures in the right atrium (N = 2–7 mm Hg), right ventricle (N =15–30/1–7 mm Hg), and pulmonary trunk (N = 15–30/4–12 mm Hg), and the oxygen saturation in the right atrium (N = 60–80%) would be increased as a result of a left-right shunt, unlike the findings in this patient. Moreover, this patient's increased systolic pressures in the aorta and left ventricle are not consistent with ASD.

Image File: 394-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_56586745170ba.jpg

