### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Bipolar I disorder** - Bipolar I disorder is a subtype of bipolar disorder that is characterized by at least one manic episode lasting ≥ 1 week with or without major depressive episodes. In addition to meeting the criteria for a manic episode, this patient has a history of major depressive disorder, which is supportive of bipolar I disorder, though not necessary for the diagnosis. In bipolar I disorder, mood changes may be accompanied by mood congruent psychotic symptoms, as seen in this patient (auditory hallucinations as suggested by his talking to the “fellow prophets”). Any stressor (e.g., the death of the patient's mother) can trigger a mood episode (e.g., mania, major depressive episode) in bipolar I disorder. An acute manic episode is a psychiatric emergency and requires immediate management, including assessment of suicidal behavior and treatment with a mood stabilizer and/or an atypical antipsychotic, depending on the severity of the manic episode.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Schizoaffective disorder** - Schizoaffective disorder is characterized by psychosis (e.g., hallucinations, delusions) that is intermittently accompanied by a major mood disorder (e.g., manic or depressive symptoms). To diagnose this condition, the psychotic symptoms must be more dominant than the mood symptoms, and psychosis must be present for at least 2 weeks in the absence of any mood disturbance. In this patient, auditory hallucinations (as suggested by his talking to his “fellow prophets”) have been present for less than 2 weeks and there was no period during which psychosis was not accompanied by symptoms of mania.

**B - Pathological grief** - Pathological grief is characterized by functional impairment in response to the death of a loved one and yearning for the deceased that persists beyond 12 months in adults or 6 months in children. It can be associated with hallucinations of the deceased and somatic symptoms. This patient has experienced the death of his mother, but his mood and behavior disturbances are not described as yearning, and they do not meet the clinical timeframe for pathological grief.

**C - Major depressive disorder with atypical features** - Major depressive disorder with atypical features is characterized by mood reactivity (i.e., transient improvement in mood in response to a positive event) and ≥ 2 of the following symptoms: increased appetite, weight gain, hypersomnia, leaden paralysis, and/or long-standing interpersonal rejection sensitivity that results in occupational or social impairment. Although this patient has a history of major depressive disorder, he does not have other atypical features, and he is experiencing a manic episode.

**D - Bipolar II disorder** - Bipolar II disorder is characterized by ≥ 1 hypomanic episode and ≥ 1 major depressive episode. Although this patient has a history of major depressive episodes, his current manic symptoms are more severe than hypomania and meet the diagnostic criteria of a manic episode, as they have lead to significant functional impairment.

**F - Cyclothymic disorder** - Cyclothymic disorder (cyclothymia) is characterized by ≥ 2 years of distinct periods of depressive symptoms that do not meet the diagnostic criteria of a major depressive episode and distinct periods of hypomanic symptoms that do not meet the diagnostic criteria of a hypomanic episode. Any symptom-free period in cyclothymia must last less than 2 months. This patient has a history of major depressive disorder, indicating that his depressive symptoms did meet the criteria for a major depressive episode, and his symptom-free period lasted for more than 2 months (over a year). Furthermore, his current symptoms are not hypomanic, but meet the diagnostic criteria of a full manic episode.

**G - Brief psychotic disorder** - Brief psychotic disorder is characterized by ≥ 1 positive symptom(s) of psychosis (hallucinations, delusions, disorganized speech, grossly disorganized or catatonic behavior) lasting < 1 month and often develops after stressful life events. This patient likely has auditory hallucinations (as suggested by his talking to his “fellow prophets”) and his symptoms developed after a stressful life event (his mother's death). However, he also experiences mood disturbances (i.e., elevated mood) and meets the criteria for a manic episode, which suggests a different diagnosis.

**H - Major depressive disorder with psychotic features** - Major depressive disorder (MDD) with psychotic features is characterized by MDD and concurrent psychotic symptoms that are often mood congruent (hallucinations or delusions about, e.g., deserved punishment, death, or worthlessness). Although this patient has a history of major depressive disorder, he is currently experiencing a manic episode, which is a criterion of exclusion for MDD. In addition, his psychotic symptoms are mood congruent with mania rather than with a major depressive episode.

