### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Ankle-brachial index** - Ankle-brachial index is the initial step in the management of PAD because it is a readily available and noninvasive test to diagnose peripheral vascular occlusion. Reduced ABI values between 0.4–0.9 indicate mild to moderate PAD with claudication, whereas values below 0.4 correlate to severe PAD with resting pain and/or gangrene.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - MRI spine screening** - MRI spine screening is used to evaluate patients with spinal stenosis or intervertebral disc herniation. Spinal stenosis often occurs in middle-aged to older patients such as this patient and presents with claudication pain while walking. However, unlike in this patient, the pain is typically bilateral, involves the buttocks or upper legs, and is associated with cramping, numbness, and tingling in the legs. Symptoms are usually relieved by bending forward or sitting down and not at rest as in this woman. Since this patient's symptoms are more indicative of peripheral arterial disease, MRI spine screening is not indicated.

**B - Duplex ultrasonography** - Duplex sonography is the best initial test in suspected acute limb ischemia (ALI), which may present with coolness and decreased pulses in the leg, and is likely in a patient with multiple atherosclerotic risk factors (hypertension, diabetes mellitus, smoking) and a medical history of heart disease (i.e., atrial fibrillation). However, onset of ALI is typically acute, involving severe, acute pain, tingling, and weakness in the leg. This patient has had pain associated with walking for the past two months.

**C - CT angiography** - Although CT angiography (CTA) is useful to identify atherosclerotic plaques, it is not the first step in diagnosing peripheral arterial disease because it's expensive, invasive, and exposes patients to contrast agents and radiation.

**D - Nerve conduction studies** - Nerve conduction studies are used to determine the degree of nerve damage in neuropathies. Because of this patient's age, her history of type 2 diabetes, and the claudication pain she experienced, diabetic neuropathy should be considered. Unlike in this patient, diabetic neuropathy typically manifests in both extremities and is characterized by a progressive symmetrical loss of or abnormal sensation in the distal lower extremities (glove and stocking sensation). Also, patients with diabetic neuropathy have warm extremities and palpable foot pulses, which this patient does not have.

**E - Trendelenburg test** - Trendelenburg test is indicated for the assessment of patients with chronic venous insufficiency. This condition often occurs in middle-aged women such as this patient and commonly presents with claudication pain of the leg while walking. Unlike in this patient, chronic venous insufficiency causes ankle swelling, telangiectasia, stasis dermatitis, and/or lipodermatosclerosis due to impaired venous return. Because this patient's history and symptoms are more indicative of peripheral arterial disease, a Trendelenburg test is not indicated.

**F - Digital subtraction angiography** - Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is the gold standard for diagnosing peripheral arterial disease and also allows treatment for arterial stenosis through percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) in the same setting. This procedure is invasive and expensive, and revascularization is not the first-line therapy for PAD with claudication symptoms only on exertion. This patient's diagnosis must first be confirmed with a noninvasive test.

**H - MR angiography** - MR angiography (MRA) can identify atherosclerotic plaques (which lead to PAD). In contrast to other imaging techniques, it does not require administering a contrast agent and does not expose the patient to radiation. However, MRA is not the initial step in diagnosing PAD because it is expensive and not readily available.

**I - Biopsy of tibial artery** - A biopsy of the tibial artery can be used to diagnose vasculitis. Vasculitides (e.g., Takayasu arteritis, obliterative thromboangiitis) can be associated with claudication pain while walking. However, vasculitides often occur in combination with constitutional symptoms such as fatigue and are rarely limited to only one extremity. A biopsy of the tibial artery is not indicated as this patient's history and symptoms are more indicative of peripheral arterial disease.

