### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Doppler echocardiography** - Doppler echocardiography is the test of choice for diagnosing aortic coarctation. In addition to echocardiography, which provides dynamic imaging of the heart and can detect concurrent anomalies, Doppler helps to localize the coarctation and estimate its severity. This patient's signs and symptoms are consistent with the presentation of aortic coarctation in adulthood. Moreover, this patient is now experiencing sequelae of untreated aortic coarctation because his dyspnea and ECG findings indicate heart failure.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cardiac catheterization** - Cardiac catheterization is a diagnostic and/or therapeutic procedure for several cardiac conditions (e.g., acute myocardial infarction). Cardiac catheterization can be used to evaluate for coarctation of the aorta, which this patient has. However, it is an invasive procedure and more typically reserved for cases in which a concurrent intervention is expected or evaluation for concurrent coronary artery disease is needed.

**B - Measurement of ankle-brachial index** - Ankle-brachial index is the initial diagnostic test for peripheral arterial disease. While this patient has lower extremity claudication with exertion that can result in a pathological ankle-brachial index, he has a constellation of other signs and symptoms, including headache, epistaxis, hypertension, rib notching on x-ray, and heart failure, that do not solely characterize peripheral arterial disease. Additionally, it is unusual to see symptomatic atherosclerosis in a relatively young patient. Though this patient's condition results in a pathological ankle-brachial index, another diagnostic step is necessary to establish the diagnosis

**C - Renal duplex ultrasonography** - Renal duplex ultrasonography is the imaging test of choice for evaluating renal artery stenosis. Although this patient's secondary hypertension is also due to a vascular source, he does not have an abdominal bruit or hypokalemia (secondary to release of renin) that are characteristic of renal artery stenosis. Moreover, renal artery stenosis does not explain his dyspnea, lower extremity claudication with exertion, and x-ray findings.

**E - 24-hour measurement of urinary metanephrine excretion** - Measurement of metanephrines in 24-hour urine is the confirmatory test of choice for pheochromocytoma. Hypertension and headaches in a young patient may be consistent with pheochromocytoma, but this type of tumor does not explain this patient's lower extremity claudication with exertion and rib notching on x-ray. Moreover, this patient does not have other characteristic symptoms of pheochromocytoma, including tachycardia, diaphoresis, and palpitations.

**F - Urine toxicology screening for cocaine** - Urine toxicology screening for cocaine can help in the assessment for an alternative cause of secondary hypertension, headaches, epistaxis, and heart failure. However, cocaine use would not explain this patient's lower extremity claudication with exertion and rib notching seen on x-ray.

**G - 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring** - Monitoring of 24-hour blood pressure can be used to diagnose hypertension. While this patient is hypertensive, blood pressure monitoring would not help identify the underlying etiology of this patient's secondary hypertension. He has a constellation of signs and symptoms, including lower extremity claudication with exertion, rib notching on x-ray, and heart failure at a young age, that would be difficult to explain by isolated hypertension.

