### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Papillary muscle rupture** - Papillary muscle rupture is a potentially life-threatening condition that typically occurs within one week of a myocardial infarction. Rupture of a papillary muscle is more common in patients with involvement of the right coronary artery. It results in acute mitral valve regurgitation, which presents with a new systolic murmur. Patients can also have a mid-systolic click due to mitral valve prolapse. Severe, acute mitral regurgitation can result in hemodynamic compromise and pulmonary edema (due to volume overload in the left atrium and subsequently the pulmonary circulation), as seen here.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Left ventricular aneurysm** - Left ventricular aneurysm can occur after myocardial infarction and present with symptoms of heart failure such as dyspnea. Mitral regurgitation with ventricular aneurysm can also occur as a result of tethering of the papillary muscles and/or annular dilation. However, evidence of ventricular aneurysm, including symptoms of heart failure, ventricular arrhythmias, and/or embolization of a mural thrombus due to ventricular aneurysm usually appears weeks to months (rather than 3 days) after the myocardial infarction. In addition, other features such as a double apical impulse, persistent ST elevation on ECG, and deep Q waves in the same leads would be expected. Moreover, ventricular aneurysms typically occur with anterior and/or lateral wall infarcts, but this patient had an inferior wall infarct (as evident from the ECG changes in inferior limb leads).

**B - Early infarct-associated pericarditis** - Early infarct-associated pericarditis can result in tachycardia, tachypnea, and new-onset dyspnea within a few days of myocardial infarction. However, other features such as chest pain and a pericardial friction rub would be expected. Moreover, the ECG in a patient with early infarct-associated pericarditis would typically show diffuse ST-segment elevations, which is not consistent with this patient's ECG.

Image File: 403-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58b00087cca7f.jpg

**C - Ventricular septal rupture** - A ruptured interventricular septum typically occurs within 3–5 days after myocardial infarction. It also presents with sudden onset of hemodynamic instability (hypotension, tachycardia), dyspnea, and a new-onset holosystolic murmur, as seen here. However, patients with ventricular septal rupture would also have new-onset chest pain and features of right-sided heart failure such as increased JVP. The expected murmur would be heard best over the left sternal border rather than the apex. Moreover, an ECG would show new ST-segment changes, a heart block, decreased/absent Q waves, and/or large P waves (due to atrial overload).

**D - Postmyocardial infarction syndrome** - Postmyocardial infarction syndrome can result in dyspnea, tachypnea, and tachycardia. However, postmyocardial infarction syndrome usually occurs 1–10 weeks after an MI, and other features such as chest pain and/or fever would be present. Moreover, cardiac auscultation would reveal a pericardial friction rub instead of a new-onset holosystolic murmur, and the ECG would typically show ST-segment elevations in all leads.

**E - Coronary artery dissection** - Coronary artery dissection is a complication of coronary angioplasty (PCI). Reinfarction due to coronary artery dissection can precipitate acute heart failure, which would result in new-onset dyspnea, and possibly a functional mitral regurgitation. However, coronary artery dissection due to PCI typically occurs during or immediately after the procedure, and other features such as new-onset chest pain as well as new ST-segment changes on ECG would be expected.

**F - Ventricular free wall rupture** - Ventricular free wall rupture, a complication that occurs within 2 weeks of myocardial infarction, would result in features of heart failure (e.g., dyspnea, hypotension, tachycardia) due to cardiac tamponade. However, a new-onset murmur is not a typical presentation of cardiac tamponade. Instead, muffled heart sounds on auscultation and other features such as new-onset chest pain, increased JVP, and pulsus paradoxus would be expected. The ECG would typically show low voltage ventricular complexes, electrical alternans, new ST-segment changes, and/or tall T waves in the precordial limbs, none of which are seen here.

