### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Nocturnal upper airway obstruction** - The collapse of pharyngeal muscles during sleep leading to nocturnal upper airway obstruction is the main mechanism underlying obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Typical features of this disease include nocturnal snoring, morning headaches, and poor concentration, as seen in this patient. Nocturnal apneic episodes in individuals with OSA result in hypercapnia, which, in turn, causes an increased sympathetic response that leads to secondary hypertension. Other symptoms include daytime sleepiness, fatigue, and depression. Obesity, especially around the neck, is the most important risk factor for developing OSA, and weight loss will often improve symptoms.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Low circulating free thyroxine levels** - Low circulating free thyroxine levels, seen in hypothyroidism, could explain this hypertension, patient's impaired concentration, and obesity. However, he lacks other characteristic features of hypothyroidism, such as cold intolerance, constipation, hyporeflexia, bradycardia, and skin changes (e.g., cold, dry skin, myxedema, hair loss). A different pathology is a more likely cause of this patient's hypertension.

**C - Hypophyseal neoplasm** - Hypophyseal or pituitary adenomas can cause a mass effect leading to headaches, as seen in this patient. Secondary hypercortisolism due to increased ACTH secretion from a functional pituitary adenoma (Cushing disease) could also explain this patient's hypertension, poor concentration, and obesity. However, pituitary adenomas usually cause visual field defects (e.g., bitemporal hemianopsia), which are not reported on neurological examination. In addition, hyperpigmentation and cutaneous features of Cushing syndrome (e,g., thin skin, striae, buffalo hump) would be expected in patients with Cushing disease.

**D - Proliferation of adrenal chromaffin cells** - A pheochromocytoma, a benign tumor of the chromaffin cells in the adrenal gland, could explain this patient's hypertension and intermittent headaches. However, the headaches associated with pheochromocytoma are typically paroxysmal and accompanied by significant sweating, tachycardia, and pallor. Early morning headache, obesity, and snoring suggest a different cause for the patient's hypertension.

**E - Hypersecretion of aldosterone** - Primary hyperaldosteronism can manifest with hypertension and headaches. However, hyperaldosteronism would not explain this patient's snoring or obesity. The presence of these features suggests a different diagnosis.

**F - Low synaptic serotonin levels** - Low synaptic serotonin levels are associated with depression, which can manifest with weight gain, inability to concentrate, and chronic headache (e.g., migraine) but it would not cause hypertension.

