### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - No further testing needed** - Women < 50 years of age with atypical angina have a low pretest probability (< 10 %) of coronary artery disease (CAD). Patients with a low pretest probability of CAD should not undergo any further diagnostic testing, as a positive test result in a low-risk patient is likely to be a false positive. Other patients considered to be at low risk for CAD (who do not require further testing) include asymptomatic men and women of all ages, men < 40 years of age with noncardiac chest pain, and women < 60 years of age with noncardiac chest pain.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Coronary CT angiogram** - Coronary CT angiogram (CCTA) is an alternative to cardiac stress testing in patients with intermediate pretest probability for significant coronary artery disease (CAD). Due to its high sensitivity and negative predictive value, CCTA can also be used to rule out significant CAD in intermediate-risk patients with inconclusive stress test results. However, this patient has a low pretest probability of CAD.

**B - Nuclear exercise stress test** - The nuclear exercise stress test is a type of cardiac stress test performed in patients with suspected stable ischemic heart disease who are able to achieve the target heart rate (85% of maximum heart rate) but have an uninterpretable resting ECG. Cardiac stress testing is most useful for diagnosing coronary artery disease in patients with intermediate pretest probability, as positive results in these patients are most likely true positives. However, this patient has a low pretest probability of CAD and no evidence of ischemia on ECG.

**C - Troponin I measurement** - Troponin I is elevated in acute myocardial infarction and is therefore useful in the workup of suspected acute coronary syndrome (ACS). In this patient, the absence of acute chest pain and signs of ischemia on ECG makes ACS unlikely. Troponin I is, therefore, likely to be negative and of little value in patients with suspected stable ischemic heart disease.

**E - Exercise ECG test** - The exercise ECG test is a type of cardiac stress test performed in patients with suspected stable ischemic heart disease who are able to achieve the target heart rate (85% of maximum heart rate) without any contraindications. Cardiac stress testing is most useful for diagnosing coronary artery disease in patients with intermediate pretest probability, as positive results in these patients are most likely true positives. However, this patient has a low pretest probability of CAD.

**F - Dobutamine stress echocardiography** - Dobutamine stress echocardiography is a type of cardiac stress test performed in patients with suspected stable ischemic heart disease who are unable to exercise and have contraindications to adenosine and dipyridamole (e.g., active bronchospasm, first-degree AV block, systolic blood pressure < 90 mm Hg, methylxanthine use). Cardiac stress testing is most useful for diagnosing coronary artery disease in patients with intermediate pretest probability, as positive results in these patients are most likely true positives. However, this patient has a low pretest probability of CAD.

