### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - No further management is indicated** - This patient initially presented with what was presumed to be new-onset symptomatic Afib. While controlling rate and/or rhythm, as well as providing anticoagulation (according to CHA2DS2-VASc score), are the key therapeutic principles in this condition, the patient's spontaneous conversion to sinus rhythm and her CHA2DS2-VASc score of 1 indicate no further management (i.e., medical or electrophysiological intervention), aside from observation, is necessary at this time. Nonetheless, underlying causes of Afib (such as structural heart disease, hyperthyroidism, electrolyte imbalances) should be investigated.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer intravenous adenosine** - Administration of an IV bolus of adenosine causes a transient AV node block that can terminate acute supraventricular tachycardias. It can also be used to unmask underlying Afib or atrial flutter in supraventricular tachyarrhythmias. However, adenosine is not effective in terminating Afib. Moreover, this patient has converted to sinus rhythm.

**B - Prescribe oral apixaban** - In nonvalvular Afib, which this patient most likely has, anticoagulation should be initiated based on the CHA2DS2-VASc score. Since this patient has a CHA2DS2-VASc score of 1, which is considered low risk for stroke in women, anticoagulation is not required.

**C - Begin oral metoprolol therapy** - Beta blockers (e.g., metoprolol) are the first-line therapeutic agents for rate control in Afib. They normalize ventricular rate and reduce symptoms. However, since this patient spontaneously converted to sinus rhythm, a rate control strategy is not indicated at this time.

**D - Perform electrical cardioversion** - In new-onset Afib, emergency electrical cardioversion should be performed in hemodynamically unstable patients, or elective electrical cardioversion might be performed in hemodynamically stable patients, in an attempt to restore sinus rhythm. This patient, however, is hemodynamically stable and spontaneously converted to sinus rhythm, making electrical cardioversion unnecessary.

**F - Refer for catheter ablation** - Catheter ablation of ectopic foci and pulmonary vein isolation is a long-term therapeutic option for patients with symptomatic refractory Afib or atrial flutter. In a new-onset Afib that has spontaneously reverted, as is the case here, catheter ablation is not indicated.

