### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Acute viral infection** - The most common cause of acute pericarditis is idiopathic (assumed viral etiology) followed by cases of confirmed viral etiology. The most common causes of viral pericarditis are coxsackievirus B and echovirus; other pathogens include hepatitis viruses, influenza virus, measles virus, mumps virus, varicella virus, and HIV.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Dressler syndrome** - Dressler syndrome is an autoimmune complication that presents as pericarditis weeks after a myocardial infarction. This patient without coronary artery disease or past myocardial infarction is unlikely to develop this type of pericarditis.

**B - Acute myocardial infarction** - Although substernal chest pain should raise the concern for acute myocardial infarction (MI), this patient does not have risk factors for coronary artery disease (e.g., diabetes, tobacco use) aside from family history. Furthermore, acute myocardial infarction does not present with positional chest pain, friction rub, or noncontiguous ST elevations. MI may cause pericarditis within 1–3 days (i.e., post-infarction fibrinous pericarditis), but this patient has no history of recent MI.

**C - Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection** - Tuberculosis is the most common cause of pericarditis in developing countries. However, tuberculosis pericarditis is unlikely in a patient who has no characteristic symptoms (cough, weight loss, night sweats). Furthermore, he has no demographic risk factors (travel to endemic countries, work in hospitals/nursing homes, incarceration) nor medical risk factors (congenital or acquired immunodeficiency) of tuberculosis.

**D - Systemic lupus erythematosus** - Cardiovascular involvement is common in SLE patients, including pericarditis and endocarditis (Libman-Sacks). Pericarditis in SLE patients is most commonly subclinical, noted only on echocardiogram. This patient presents with symptomatic pericarditis, has no signs of SLE, and has no family history of autoimmune disease.

