### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Ultrasound-guided thrombin injection** - Ultrasound-guided thrombin injection initiates the rapid formation of a fibrin clot, stopping blood flow to the hematoma. This procedure has become the gold standard for the treatment of uncomplicated postcatheterization pseudoaneurysms that measure ≥ 3 cm, and it has a success rate of > 90%. Pseudoaneurysms are most often iatrogenic (e.g., a complication of vascular puncture or cardiovascular surgery) and typically present within 24 hours following the procedure, as seen here. In some cases, iatrogenic pseudoaneurysms only become symptomatic 7–10 days after the intervention. The incidence of iatrogenic pseudoaneurysms is low: they are reported following < 1% of all diagnostic and therapeutic catheterizations. In contrast, true aneurysms of the femoral artery usually require open surgical repair if they become symptomatic or measure ≥ 3 cm.

Image File: 409-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f1e98fb28ef2.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - Ultrasound-guided compression** - Ultrasound-guided compression (UGC) is the first-line treatment for symptomatic iatrogenic arteriovenous fistulas, an important but extremely rare differential diagnosis for a postinterventional groin mass with a bruit. However, this condition is often initially asymptomatic and manifests 48 hours to several months after the intervention. Additional symptoms typically include fatigue, lower extremity ischemia and/or edema, deep vein thrombosis, varicosis, neuropathy, and high-output cardiac failure, none of which are seen here. Moreover, duplex ultrasonography would show involvement of the femoral vein and a continuous rather than pulsatile flow. For uncomplicated pseudoaneurysms, UGC is now rarely used because it is not as effective as other procedures.

**C - Observation and serial imaging** - Observation and serial imaging are indicated for uncomplicated pseudoaneurysms that measure < 3 cm if they are asymptomatic and have been present for < 6 weeks, as they may resolve spontaneously. Since this patient's pseudoaneurysm is ≥ 3 cm in size and symptomatic, it is likely to continue to grow without intervention and, therefore, requires treatment.

**D - Open surgical repair** - Open surgical repair is indicated for complicated pseudoaneurysms, i.e., pseudoaneurysms that cause hemodynamic instability or tissue compromise (e.g., limb ischemia, neuropathy, skin necrosis), expand rapidly, or show signs of infection (e.g., erythema, warmth), and for uncomplicated pseudoaneurysms that were unable to be repaired through other, less invasive measures. Because this patient shows no symptoms that would classify the pseudoaneurysm as complicated and has not yet received any treatment, open surgical repair is not appropriate at this time.

**E - Covered stent implantation** - Covered stent implantation may be utilized if other noninvasive treatments have not been successful or if a pseudoaneurysm is detected on angiography prior to removal of the catheter during the initial procedure. Alternatively, coil embolization can be considered for endovascular therapy. Because this patient has not yet undergone noninvasive treatment, stent implantation and coil embolization are not indicated at this time.

