### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Duloxetine** - Duloxetine, a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) is considered a first-line treatment for generalized anxiety disorder. SNRIs are effective anxiolytic drugs with no potential for dependence, and they have a more favorable side-effect profile than second- and third-line options. It can take up to 4–6 weeks for SNRIs to begin improving symptoms.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Mirtazapine** - Mirtazapine is primarily used for the treatment of major depressive disorder. It can also be considered in patients with generalized anxiety disorder, but is generally reserved for cases in which first-line and second-line medications have not been effective, as it can actually exacerbate anxiety in the first weeks of treatment or during periods of dose changes.

**C - Doxepin** - Doxepin and other tricyclic antidepressants can be used in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder. However, they are no longer considered the first-line treatment due to their negative side-effect profile (e.g., anticholinergic symptoms) and risk of overdose.

**D - Propranolol** - Propranolol can be used as an adjunctive medication in the primary treatment of panic disorder, which typically presents with recurrent, unexpected panic attacks in which the patient experiences intense episodes of fear and discomfort, overstimulation of the sympathetic system (e.g., sweating, palpitations), and concern for future attacks. This patient's symptoms, however, are not consistent with panic disorder.

**E - Buspirone** - Buspirone can be used in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder. However, it is considered a second-line treatment option and can also be used as an augmenting agent in patients who have only a partial response to first-line treatment.

**F - Pregabalin** - Pregabalin can be used in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder. However, it is considered an alternative treatment option that can either be used alone or as an augmenting agent in patients who have only a partial response to first-line treatment.

**G - Lorazepam** - Lorazepam, a benzodiazepine, can be used as an adjunctive medication in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder. While effective in improving symptoms in the short term, benzodiazepines should never be used in long-term management because of their high potential for addiction and negative side-effect profile. In this patient, the history of risky alcohol use puts him at increased risk of developing dependence and abuse; therefore, this class of medications should be avoided.

