### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Avoid isosorbide dinitrate at night** - Development of tolerance is a typical side-effect of chronic nitrate therapy. The mechanism underlying nitrate tolerance is not completely understood but is thought to involve decreased sensitivity of the vascular endothelium to nitrates. The most effective strategy to prevent this is intermittent therapy with nitrate-free intervals of at least 8 hours, which would be accomplished by avoiding isosorbide dinitrate at night.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increase dose of daily metoprolol** - Beta blockers such as metoprolol are a first-line therapy for stable angina, as their effect of lowering heart rate and contractility reduces ischemia. However, this patient already has a low heart rate, indicating that metoprolol is still effective. Increasing the metoprolol dose further could cause hemodynamic instability.

**C - Discontinue atorvastatin therapy** - Statins are commonly used in the treatment of both hyperlipidemia and coronary artery disease. Discontinuation may be necessary in the setting of intolerable side effects or statin-induced myopathy which would present with symptoms of muscle pain and weakness. This patient, however, is experiencing drug tolerance, not drug toxicity.

**D - Add tadalafil to medication regimen** - Phosphodiesterase type-5 inhibitor such as tadalafil are contraindicated in patients taking nitrates, because the synergistic vasodilation can result in extreme hypotension and syncope. Furthermore, tadalafil is indicated for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, BPH, and pulmonary hypertension but not angina pectoris.

**E - Perform coronary angiography** - Invasive tests such as coronary angiography are reserved for patients with stable angina who are either refractory to optimal medical management or belong to a high-risk demographic. This patient was asymptomatic after initial pharmacotherapy but is now exhibiting signs of drug tolerance, indicating that medical management is sub-optimal. Furthermore, angiography alone would not treat this patient's symptoms since it is a diagnostic test, not a therapeutic intervention.

**F - Decrease amount of aerobic exercise** - Patients with stable angina pectoris should be encouraged to engage in regular aerobic exercise, since this can result in a lower oxygen requirement of the myocardium for a given workload, thereby improving exercise tolerance and reducing symptoms. Furthermore, this patient has experienced improvement from her original 15-minute exercise tolerance which indicates that her capacity for aerobic exercise has not decreased.

