### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Abdominal ultrasonography** - Patients with a suspected asymptomatic AAA should undergo abdominal Duplex ultrasonography to confirm the diagnosis (dilatation of the aorta ≥ 3 cm) and evaluate the extent of disease, including location and size of the aneurysm, presence of a blood clot, and presence of comorbid iliac artery aneurysms. The sensitivity and specificity of abdominal ultrasonography for AAA are nearly 100%. After the diagnosis is established, management strategies depend on the risk factors for rupture (e.g., aneurysm diameter and rate of expansion).

Image File: 418-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f9e852ee8d00.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - CT scan of the abdomen with contrast** - CT angiography of the abdomen and pelvis is appropriate for hemodynamically stable patients with confirmed or suspected symptomatic AAA. This test provides a detailed assessment of the location, size, and extent of the aneurysm, as well as the involvement of branch vessels, presence of a thrombus, and/or rupture. Signs of symptomatic AAA include abdominal, back, or flank pain, flank ecchymoses, and signs of aortic fistula (e.g., heart failure, upper gastrointestinal bleeding), which this patient does not have. A different step in management is more appropriate for asymptomatic AAA.

Image File: 418-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93dd2578.jpg

**B - Catheter arteriography** - Intraoperative catheter arteriography of the aorta can be used to assess the intraluminal space and the presence of a leak after repair of an AAA. However, it has limited use during diagnostic workup, as it only assesses the aortic lumen and cannot distinguish between the vessel wall and a blood clot in an aneurysm (and thus cannot estimate aneurysm size).

**C - Prostate biopsy** - A prostate biopsy would be appropriate for a patient with a high suspicion for prostate cancer (e.g., presence of constitutional symptoms, terminal hematuria). However, this patient's urinary symptoms (hesitancy and incomplete voiding), in combination with a digital rectal examination showing a symmetrically enlarged, smooth, firm, nontender prostate with rubbery texture, are consistent with benign prostatic hyperplasia. This does not merit urgent management at this time, particularly in this patient with findings suspicious for an AAA.

**D - PSA level testing** - Elevated prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels are a nonspecific finding in several conditions that affect the prostate, including prostate cancer and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). This patient's urinary symptoms (hesitancy and incomplete voiding), in combination with a digital rectal examination showing a symmetrically enlarged, smooth, firm, nontender prostate with rubbery texture, are consistent with BPH. This does not merit urgent management at this time, particularly in this patient with findings suspicious for an AAA.

**F - Renal arteriography** - Renal arteriography is the gold standard for diagnosing renal artery stenosis (RAS), which can also present with an abdominal bruit. However, additional clinical features include treatment-resistant hypertension and hypokalemia (from elevated aldosterone levels) and elevated serum creatinine concentration, which this patient does not have. Other diagnostic methods for workup of RAS include renal ultrasonography, CT angiography, and MR angiography.

