### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Apixaban** - Afib can lead to stasis of blood and clot formation in the atrium, resulting in thrombotic embolizations when the patient is converted back to sinus rhythm. Therefore, anticoagulation with a direct oral anticoagulant (DOAC) such as apixaban should be initiated prior to cardioversion and continued for at least 4 weeks after cardioversion, also in patients with Afib starting in the past 48 hours who have a moderate to high thromboembolic risk, such as this patient. If DOACs are contraindicated, heparin (e.g., for pregnant patients) or warfarin (e.g., for patients with valvular Afib) can be used.

Image File: 419-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_604f9d52b57c3.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Diltiazem** - Diltiazem can be used in patients with Afib when rate control is indicated. The target resting heart rate in Afib is < 110/minute for patients who are asymptomatic and < 80/minute for patients who are symptomatic. Because this patient has a heart rate of 72/min, diltiazem should not be used.

**B - Eptifibatide** - Eptifibatide is an antiplatelet medication only used in high-risk patients with unstable angina or NSTEMI to prevent thrombotic complications during percutaneous coronary intervention. This drug is not used in the prevention of thromboembolism, which is what is required for a patient with Afib who is scheduled for elective cardioversion.

**C - Atenolol** - Atenolol can be used in patients with Afib when rate control is indicated. The target resting heart rate for patients with Afib is < 110/minute for asymptomatic patients and < 80/minute for symptomatic patients. This patient has a heart rate of 72/min and, therefore, should not be given a beta blocker.

**D - Flecainide** - Flecainide may be used in patients with Afib for pharmacological cardioversion, but this patient is already scheduled for electrical cardioversion. Furthermore, flecainide is contraindicated in patients with structural heart disease (e.g., left ventricular hypertrophy, mild atrial enlargement), as the drug is highly proarrhythmic, inducing, e.g., QT prolongation, QRS complex widening, and bradyarrhythmias. In addition to the use for cardioversion, flecainide is also sometimes subscribed to patients with Afib without structural heart disease as part of a pill-in-pocket approach.

**E - Aspirin** - Aspirin is an antiplatelet medication used in the prevention of cardiovascular disease and after acute myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, and acute ischemic stroke. It is not used in the prevention of thromboembolism, which is what is required for a patient with Afib who is scheduled for elective cardioversion.

