### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Administer adenosine intravenously** - If vagal maneuvers are ineffective in terminating AVNRT, intravenous administration of adenosine is the next step in management. It successfully terminates AVNRT in over 80% of cases, and has a rapid onset of action. Patients should be supine and have continuous blood pressure and electrocardiographic monitoring. Adverse effects include facial flushing and shortness of breath, hypotension, and bradycardia. Patients with asthma and reactive airway disease should not receive adenosine because of the risk of inducing bronchospasm.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Administer verapamil intravenously** - Intravenous verapamil (a calcium channel blocker) can terminate AVNRT, but it is generally considered a second-line agent. Adverse effects include hypotension and bradycardia. Verapamil can also be used in atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, and multifocal atrial tachycardia.

**C - Electrical cardioversion** - Electrical cardioversion is the management option of choice in patients with supraventricular tachycardia (such as AVNRT, in this case) who have signs of hemodynamic instability (e.g., hypotension, shortness of breath, chest pain, shock, altered mental status). This patient is hemodynamically stable, and thus an alternative management strategy is preferred.

**D - Administer digoxin intravenously** - Intravenous digoxin (a cardiac glycoside) can terminate AVNRT, but it is generally considered a second-line agent, particularly because digoxin has a low therapeutic index; toxicity can cause cardiac arrhythmias, gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain), neurologic symptoms (e.g. confusion, weakness, lethargy), and visual changes. Digoxin can also be used in atrial fibrillation.

**E - Administer metoprolol intravenously** - Intravenous beta blockers (metoprolol, esmolol) can terminate AVNRT, but they are generally considered second-line agents. Patients with severe asthma and reactive airway disease should not receive beta blockers because of their risk of inducing bronchospasm. Other adverse effects include hypotension and bradycardia.

**F - Administer diltiazem intravenously** - Intravenous diltiazem (a calcium channel blocker) can terminate AVNRT, but it is generally considered a second-line agent. Adverse effects include hypotension and bradycardia. Diltiazem is also used for atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter.

**G - Catheter ablation** - Catheter ablation of the aberrant pathway (in this case, within the AV node) is highly effective and generally the preferred long-term management strategy for recurrent symptomatic AVNRT. There is a small risk of resultant AV node block and need for cardiac pacemaker. It should be considered as an option in the chronic management of this patient. However she currently requires immediate management of her arrhythmia.

