### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Perform a percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty** - Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PCI) is the preferred method of revascularization in patients with myocardial infarction. Emergency revascularization is the most important step in the management of patients with acute STEMI because it restores the patency of the occluded coronary artery, limiting a further increase in the size of the infarction. Since early reperfusion is associated with improved clinical outcomes, door-to-PCI time should be < 90 minutes. Fibrinolysis can be considered in patients with acute STEMI if PCI fails, is unavailable, or cannot be performed ≤ 120 minutes after first medical contact and symptom onset is < 12 hours.

Dual antiplatelet and anticoagulation therapy should also be initiated as soon as possible. Therapy with beta blockers is associated with better outcomes (reduced infarct size and decreased mortality) and must be initiated within the first 24 hours of admission unless there are contraindications (e.g., cardiogenic shock, hypotension, features of heart failure). Patients should also be started on high-intensity statin therapy regardless of baseline cholesterol levels.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer sublingual nitroglycerin** - Sublingual or intravenous nitrates are generally indicated in patients with acute STEMI for symptomatic relief of chest pain. However, nitrates are contraindicated in patients with inferior wall infarction and/or hypotension, as seen here.

**B - Perform a coronary artery bypass graft surgery** - Coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery is a revascularization method not routinely recommended for acute STEMI because it cannot restore myocardial perfusion as rapidly as other modalities. CABG may be a reasonable second-line treatment if first-line reperfusion techniques fail, or the patient's coronary anatomy is not amenable to other reperfusion techniques.

**D - Start intravenous metoprolol therapy** - Intravenous metoprolol is indicated in patients with acute coronary syndrome because beta blockers reduce myocardial infarct size and overall mortality. However, because of their negative inotropic effect, beta blockers are contraindicated in patients with hypotension or cardiogenic shock, which this patient has.

**E - Start single antiplatelet therapy** - Single antiplatelet therapy can be initiated 12 months after an acute STEMI. However, in the acute management of patients with a STEMI, dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin plus an ADP receptor inhibitor (e.g., clopidogrel, ticagrelor) is typically indicated.

**F - Administer intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator** - Intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) can be considered in patients with acute STEMI if first-line reperfusion techniques fail, are unavailable, or if PCI cannot be performed ≤ 120 minutes after first medical contact and symptom onset is < 12 hours. If, however, the patient arrives at the hospital within 120 minutes (ideally 90 minutes) of first medical contact, as seen here, a different method of reperfusion is preferred.

