### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor** - HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, more commonly referred to as statins, are the first-line treatment for dyslipidemia. According to the 2018 AHA/ACC guidelines, adults ≤ 75 years of age should be started on statin therapy if they have concomitant clinical ASCVD, an LDL-cholesterol concentration ≥ 190 mg/dL, an estimated 10-year ASCVD risk ≥ 7.5%; adults age 40–75 with diabetes mellitus should also be started on statin therapy. This patient has a calculated LDL level of 191 mg/dL, which is an indication for statin therapy. Statins are the most effective drug for reducing LDL levels and also improve HDL and triglyceride levels. The treatment goal should be a LDL level < 130 mg/dL.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Vitamin B3** - Vitamin B3 (niacin) can be given as an adjunct if dietary measures do not sufficiently improve serum lipid levels. It increases HDL levels and, to a lesser degree, reduces triglyceride and LDL synthesis. However, it is not the first-line drug in patients with dyslipidemia.

**B - Cholesterol absorption inhibitor** - Ezetimibe, a cholesterol absorption inhibitor, is a second-line lipid-lowering agent that is reserved for patients who do not tolerate the first-line drug or have contraindications for it. It may also be administered to augment the effect of the first-line drug if it does not sufficiently lower LDL levels.

**C - Proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin 9 inhibitor** - PCSK9 inhibitors such as alirocumab and evolocumab are new drugs that are highly effective in lowering LDL levels. They are only approved as an adjunctive treatment in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia or a history of atherosclerotic CVD who require additional lowering of LDL levels if dietary measures and/or the maximum tolerated statin dose are insufficient.

**E - Bile acid resins** - Bile acid resins such as cholestyramine may be used as a monotherapy or in combination with statins to manage dyslipidemia. However, this class of drugs only minimally lowers LDL and the gastrointestinal side effects (nausea, bloating, cramping) and increase in liver enzymes often necessitate discontinuation of treatment.

**F - Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha activator** - PPARα activators, which are more commonly referred to as fibrates (e.g., bezafibrate, fenofibrate), are a second-line treatment for dyslipidemia. Another lipid-lowering agent with a more potent effect on LDL levels is the preferred choice.

