### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Clopidogrel therapy** - This patient with symptomatic lower extremity PAD should begin long-term antiplatelet therapy. Clopidogrel reduces the risk of ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction, and vascular death in patients with symptomatic PAD. Other antiplatelet agents, including aspirin and ticagrelor, also decrease morbidity and mortality. This patient also has several other risk factors to address and would benefit from smoking cessation, antihypertensive therapy, and lipid-lowering therapy.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pentoxifylline therapy** - Pentoxifylline is an approved drug for claudication, but studies have not shown significant improvement of symptoms compared to other pharmacologic therapies.

**B - Cilostazol therapy** - Cilostazol inhibits platelet aggregation and is a direct arterial vasodilator that can improve symptoms of claudication. In this patient, starting cilostazol will likely improve his symptoms. However, there is currently insufficient data on whether cilostazol treatment decreases mortality in patients with PAD.

**D - Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty** - Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) is indicated for patients with critical limb ischemia or severe claudication that persists despite optimal management. Studies have shown that for patients with mild to moderate claudication, PTA decreases symptom severity at 6 months; however, there is currently insufficient data on whether it provides long-term benefits or decreases mortality.

**E - Graded exercise therapy** - Graded exercise therapy can increase walking tolerance in patients with claudication and would be useful in this patient. However, there is currently insufficient data on whether exercise rehabilitation decreases mortality in patients with PAD.

