### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Esophageal compression** - Long-standing mitral stenosis can lead to an enlarged left atrium due to chronically elevated left atrial pressures. In some patients, the atrium may become so massively enlarged that it can compress the esophagus. In only very rare cases do patients develop esophageal compression that is severe enough to cause dysphagia (dysphagia megalatriensis).

Image File: 432-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60dee406205c8.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Nephritic syndrome** - Nephritic syndrome due to poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis is an immune-complex mediated complication of streptococcal infection. This patient, who has rheumatic heart disease, has most certainly had a streptococcal infection during childhood or early adolescence. However, PSGN occurs within 1–6 weeks of streptococcal infection in the same age group; it would not occur in adulthood.

**B - Retinal vein occlusion** - Retinal vein occlusion is a complication of systemic disease such as atherosclerosis, diabetes mellitus, and vasculitis, and is also seen in patients with hypercoagulable states (e.g., polycythemia vera, sickle cell disease, oral contraceptive use). Patients with mitral stenosis and concurrent atrial fibrillation due to an enlarged left atrium, are at increased risk of retinal artery occlusion secondary to embolization from the atria.

**D - Bleeding from intestinal angiodysplasia** - GI bleeding from intestinal angiodysplasia in patients with aortic stenosis (AS) has been called Heyde's syndrome. AS can occur in rheumatic heart disease and cause dyspnea. However, AS would cause a crescendo-decrescendo systolic murmur that is best heard at the upper sternal borders, and an opening snap would not be expected.

**E - Left ventricular hypertrophy** - Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is associated most commonly with chronic HTN and aortic stenosis (AS). Patients with untreated, severe mitral stenosis (MS) are instead at increased risk of developing right ventricular hypertrophy due to pulmonary artery hypertension (from high left atrial pressures). The presence of an opening snap in this patient is suggestive of mitral stenosis, thus LVH would be very unlikely to develop.

**F - Ventricular tachycardia** - Ventricular tachycardia is a serious arrhythmia that arises from the ventricle. Patients with mitral stenosis due to rheumatic heart disease are more likely to develop a supraventricular tachyarrhythmia such as atrial fibrillation (due to atrial enlargement)

Image File: 432-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_597b0774ca879.jpg

