### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Calcification of the aortic valve** - This patient's aortic stenosis is most likely secondary to calcification and fibrosis of the aortic valve, which occurs at an increasing rate as patients age (prevalence is 65% in those aged 75–84 years). The increased afterload created by stenotic aortic valves reduces cardiac output, which manifests over time with anginal pain, syncope, and heart failure. Other common underlying risk factors of aortic stenosis, especially in younger patients, include bicuspid aortic valves and a history of rheumatic fever.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Rupture of the chordae tendineae** - Ruptured chordae tendineae lead to mitral regurgitation, which presents with a systolic murmur. However, the murmur in MR is typically heard loudest at the apex and radiates to the axilla and not the carotids. Also, rupture of the chordae tendineae results in acute MR, most likely leading to severe symptoms such as pulmonary edema or even cardiogenic shock.

**B - Fibrosis of the sinus node** - Fibrosis of the sinus node is a cause of sick sinus syndrome, which may present with syncope and angina. However, sick sinus syndrome cannot account for this patient's heart murmur.

**C - Asymmetric septal hypertrophy** - Asymmetric hypertrophy of the septal myocardium is seen in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, which also causes a systolic murmur and may present with angina or syncope on exertion. Because hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a congenital disease that typically presents in younger patients, it would be unusual for the disease to present for the first time in an elderly patient.

**E - Embolus in the pulmonary artery** - Although this patient's syncope may be due to pulmonary embolism, PE severe enough to cause syncope would not resolve on its own nor be asymptomatic after the event. Instead, dyspnea, chest pain, hypotension, and/or tachycardia would have been present, making PE very unlikely.

