### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Cystic medial necrosis** - Cystic medial necrosis of the aorta can lead to development of a thoracic aortic aneurysm, which may manifest with back pain and pressure in the chest. Different conditions can be associated with the occurrence of thoracic aortic aneurysms of the ascending aorta. A patient presenting with signs of a thoracic aortic aneurysm and a tall height (194 cm) may have Marfan syndrome. Aortic root disease is the most common cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with Marfan syndrome. Other conditions associated with thoracic aortic aneurysm include Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, hypertension, the occurrence of a congenital bicuspid aortic valve, and cardiovascular syphilis causing aortitis.

Image File: 436-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f60d13734ca4.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Infection with Trypanosoma cruzi** - Infection with Trypanosoma cruzi causes Chagas disease. Chronic Chagas disease manifests with dilated cardiomyopathy, but ascending aortic aneurysm would not be expected. Although this patient has immigrated to the United States from Ecuador, where T. cruzi is endemic, his CT imaging findings do not show dilated cardiomyopathy.

**C - Large-vessel vasculitis** - Large-vessel vasculitides such as Takayasu arteritis can affect the aortic arch and proximal great vessels, which can lead to discordant blood pressure readings between the upper limbs (due to aortic arch narrowing). Takayasu arteritis can, occasionally, lead to aneurysmal dilation of the ascending aorta with aortic regurgitation and dysphagia, which is seen here. However, the condition typically occurs in Asian women and would usually be associated with other features, such as cutaneous nodules, fever, or night sweats.

**D - Atherosclerotic plaque formation** - Atherosclerotic plaque formation is considered the most important pathophysiological mechanism underlying aneurysms in the thoracic segment and the abdominal segment of the descending aorta. Aortic atherosclerosis arises most often in elderly patients with risk factors for atherosclerosis such as hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and smoking; it would be unlikely that such a young patient would be have atherosclerotic vascular disease. Furthermore, atherosclerotic lesions appear as hyperdense signals in the wall of the aorta. However, this patient's CT scan does not show any signs of aortic atherosclerosis. Furthermore, a different condition is more likely to be the underlying condition responsible for a thoracic aortic aneurysm.

**E - Congenital narrowing of the aortic arch** - Congenital narrowing of the aortic arch at the isthmus is called aortic coarctation. The classic manifestation of aortic coarctation is disparate blood pressure measurements in the upper and lower extremities; only in the rare instance that the coarctation is proximal to the origin of the left subclavian artery would aortic coarctation cause disparate blood pressure measurements in the arms. Furthermore, this condition would not be expected to cause significant dilation of the ascending aorta.

