### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Ventricular aneurysm** - Ventricular aneurysms can develop several weeks to months after an MI because of scar tissue formation that leads to thinning and weakening of the ventricular wall. This in turn can lead to congestive heart failure, which is a common complication of ventricular aneurysms. Other complications of ventricular aneurysms include myocardial wall rupture (which can lead to cardiac tamponade), arrhythmias, and mural thrombus formation within the aneurysmal segment (due to stasis of blood flow). Ventricular aneurysms typically manifest with a systolic murmur, an S3 and/or S4 gallop, and persistent ST elevations on ECG, all of which are seen here. Diagnosis is confirmed by visualization of the pathological myocardial wall protrusion on echocardiography.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Papillary muscle rupture** - Papillary muscle rupture typically leads to mitral regurgitation, which causes a new holosystolic murmur, dyspnea, and pulmonary edema, all of which are seen here. However, papillary muscle rupture is an acute, life-threatening complication that manifests with hypotension, which is inconsistent with this patient's presentation. Moreover, it usually occurs 2–7 days after an MI, whereas this patient's symptoms manifested 2 months after his MI.

**C - Ventricular septal rupture** - Ventricular septal rupture can occur after a left anterior descending artery (LAD) infarction and manifest with a new holosystolic murmur, which this patient has. However, the septal rupture leads to a left-to-right shunt and acute-onset right heart failure, which manifests with jugular venous distention and peripheral pitting edema, neither of which is seen here. Moreover, ventricular septal rupture typically manifests 3–5 days after an MI, whereas this patient's symptoms manifested 2 months after his MI.

**D - Right coronary artery occlusion** - Occlusion of the right coronary artery can lead to inferior wall MI and right ventricular MI. This patient's history of coronary artery disease puts him at increased risk for reinfarction. However, MI typically manifests acutely with retrosternal chest pain, diaphoresis, and nausea and vomiting, none of which is seen here. Moreover, unlike the findings in this patient, inferior wall MI typically causes ST elevations in leads II, III, and aVF, and right ventricular MI commonly manifests with hypotension and jugular venous distention without pulmonary edema.

**E - Dressler syndrome** - Postmyocardial infarction syndrome (Dressler syndrome) is an acute form of pericarditis that can occur several weeks after an MI and manifest with a dry cough, dyspnea, and persistent ST elevations on ECG. However, ST elevations are typically seen in all leads, and deep Q waves in leads V1 through V4, as seen here, are not typical. Moreover, other features of acute pericarditis, such as pleuritic chest pain, pericardial friction rub on auscultation, and low-grade fever, are not seen here.

