### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Ventricular pseudoaneurysm** - Mural thromboembolism from a left ventricular pseudoaneurysm is the most likely cause of this patient's acute limb ischemia. A left ventricular pseudoaneurysm typically develops 3-14 days after myocardial infarction, and it can also lead to decreased cardiac output and arrhythmia. A ventricular aneurysm can also be associated with mural thromboembolism, but this condition typically develops 2 weeks to a few months postinfarction, so it is unlikely in this patient. Initial diagnosis of a ventricular pseudoaneurysm is performed with transthoracic echocardiography, but a definitive diagnosis is determined with angiography, which allows direct visualization of the lesion.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Papillary muscle rupture** - Papillary muscle rupture typically occurs 2-7 days after myocardial infarction (MI), similar to what is seen here. However, this rupture often leads to severe mitral regurgitation, which manifests with dyspnea, cough, bilateral crackles, and hypotension, none of which this patient has. Further, papillary muscle rupture is less likely in a patient with a single-vessel anterior wall MI, because the anterolateral papillary muscle has a dual blood supply from the left circumflex and left anterior descending arteries.

**B - Postmyocardial infarction syndrome** - Postmyocardial infarction syndrome (Dressler syndrome) usually occurs 2-10 weeks after a myocardial infarction (MI) and can manifest with pleuritic or pericardial chest pain that can radiate to the arm. This patient has no chest pain; his left arm pain with poikilothermia, paresthesia, pulselessness, and paresis suggests acute upper limb ischemia, not Dressler syndrome. Further, patients with Dressler syndrome typically present with fever and a dry cough, neither of which is seen here.

**C - Iatrogenic brachial arterial injury** - Iatrogenic left brachial arterial injury can occur during percutaneous coronary angioplasty and lead to dissection or thrombosis and ischemia of the arm. However, this complication manifests acutely and is unlikely to occur 7 days after the procedure.

**E - Ventricular septal rupture** - Ventricular septal rupture can occur as a complication of myocardial infarction and usually develops 3-5 days post-infarction. Ventricular septal rupture leads to acute right heart failure, which can progress to cardiogenic shock and manifest with cool extremities. However, patients with right heart failure and cardiogenic shock also present with jugular venous distension, peripheral edema, tachycardia, hypotension, and altered mental status, none of which are seen here.

