### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Eplerenone** - Eplerenone is an aldosterone receptor antagonist associated with improved survival in patients with CHF NYHA class II to IV, EF <35%, and/or post-MI (likely present in this post-TIA patient with an ECG showing T wave inversions in leads V1 to V4). The mechanism by which an aldosterone antagonist decreases mortality is likely due to the prevention of cardiac myocyte remodeling after a MI, and reduced urinary potassium loss, which leads to higher serum potassium levels. Additionally, eplerenone causes fewer endocrine side effects such as gynecomastia than the aldosterone antagonist spironolactone.

Image File: 442-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5def621ec0b7c.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Amlodipine** - Amlodipine is a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker (CCB) with no direct effect or survival benefit in patients with CHF. However, it can be used in this patient population for management of comorbidities such as resistent hypertension and/or angina despite maximal medical therapy.

**C - Ivabradine** - Ivabradine is a selective sinus node funny (If) channel inhibitor used in CHF patients with an EF <35%, sinus rhythm, and resting heart rate ≥70 (this patient's HR is <70). It is also indicated in symptomatic patients on maximum doses of or with contraindications to beta blockers. While ivabradine reduces the risk of hospitalization and mortality due to CHF, this patient does not meet the criteria for initiation of this agent.

**D - Dobutamine** - Dobutamine is an inotropic agent that is not used in the long-term management of CHF. Instead, it can be used temporarily in patients with severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction and low cardiac output resulting in organ hypoperfusion. It has a role in severely ill patients with cardiogenic shock as a bridge to definitive therapy of the underlying cardiac condition (coronary revascularization therapy for MI, heart transplantation, among others).

**E - Furosemide** - Furosemide is a loop diuretic used for symptomatic treatment in patients with CHF. While this patient with worsening shortness of breath, signs of pulmonary edema (fine crackles at the lung bases), and lower extremity edema would benefit from furosemide to improve his breathing, oxygenation, and volume overload status, furosemide has not been shown to improve survival in patients with CHF.

**F - Verapamil** - Verapamil is a non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker with negative inotropic effects. It can be used for rate control in patients with atrial fibrillation. There are no proven clinical or survival benefits in patients with CHF.

**G - Warfarin** - Warfarin is a vitamin K antagonist that is not indicated for CHF but instead used for thromboprophylaxis in patients with valvular atrial fibrillation. Although this patient has occasional palpitations, and A-fib is a known precipitant of CHF exacerbation, he has no evidence of current A-fib on EKG.

**H - Digoxin** - Digoxin is a cardiac glycoside that can be used for symptomatic treatment in patients with atrial fibrillation and congestive heart failure (CHF). While digoxin has been shown to reduce the rate of hospitalizations in patients with CHF, it has not been shown to improve overall survival.

