### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Counsel on dietary modification** - Lifestyle modification counseling should always be performed when evaluating a patient with hypertension. Emphasis should be made on addressing modifiable risk factors (diet, exercise, weight loss, smoking cessation); although this patient's daily exercise and whole-grain bread intake are commendable, his high-sodium diet (i.e., canned foods and cured meats) likely contributes to his hypertension and should be modified appropriately. This patient should be encouraged to follow a DASH diet, which is proven to reduce blood pressure compared to average American diet or salt-restricted diet alone.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increase hydrochlorothiazide dose** - While increasing the patient's dose of hydrochlorothiazide may be an option, other measures should be considered first before changing his pharmacological regimen.

**B - Add metoprolol** - Beta blockers, such as metoprolol, are usually not recommended for the initial pharmacotherapy of hypertension because other agents are more effective. Beta blockers are typically only added to the medication regimen if monotherapy with a thiazide diuretic, calcium channel blocker, ACE inhibitor, or angiotensin-receptor blocker is unable to control blood pressure. Despite showing an inadequate response to his single anti-hypertensive medication, this patient has not exhausted all initial management strategies. Moreover, the combination of beta blockers and thiazide diuretics is associated with an increased risk of synergistic adverse metabolic effects (impaired glucose tolerance, dyslipidemia).

**C - Measure thyroid-stimulating hormone levels** - Hyperthyroidism should always be considered when evaluating a patient with secondary hypertension. While this patient has a family history of thyroid disease, he has no other clinical features of hyperthyroidism (e.g., palpitations, diaphoresis, diarrhea, etc) and does not meet the criteria for therapy-resistant hypertension.

**D - Start a structured exercise program** - Daily aerobic exercise should always be recommended in patients diagnosed with hypertension as part of lifestyle modification counseling. However, this patient already walks 45 minutes per day, so an additional exercise routine is unlikely to provide much benefit.

**E - Measure 24-hour urine metanephrine levels** - 24-hour urine metanephrine levels can be used to diagnose pheochromocytoma, an uncommon cause of treatment-resistant or secondary hypertension. This patient does not have resistant hypertension, nor does he have any history or clinical findings to suggest pheochromocytoma (e.g., paroxysmal hypertension, headaches, palpitations).

**G - Conduct a sleep study** - Polysomnography is a test that is used to detect potential obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), a common cause of secondary hypertension. Although this patient snores at night, he does not have any other history or exam findings to suggest OSA (e.g., thick neck, apneic spells at night, morning headaches, etc), and he reports that he sleeps well.

