### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Aortic occlusion** - Acute aortic occlusion (AAO) is a life-threatening vascular event with clinical findings that vary depending on the location of the occlusion. These findings may include symptoms of lower limb and mesenteric ischemia, as seen in this patient. Causes of AAO include atherothrombosis, occlusion of a stent or vascular graft, aortic dissection, and aortic embolism. Aortic emboli that are large enough to lead to AAO typically have a cardiac origin and develop as a result of incomplete atrial/ventricular emptying in cardiac arrhythmias (e.g., atrial fibrillation), valvular heart disease (e.g., mitral stenosis), or conditions that lead to blood pooling, such as left ventricular aneurysm and pseudoaneurysms (e.g., following recent anterior MI). In this patient with atriomegaly and an irregular pulse suggestive of atrial fibrillation, thromboembolism is the most likely cause of AAO.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Aortic dissection** - Aortic dissection is characterized by sudden onset of pain in the anterior chest (if the ascending aorta is involved) or in the back between the scapulae (if the descending aorta is involved). Abdominal pain without thoracic pain, which this patient has, is not commonly seen in aortic dissection. Furthermore, aortic dissection most commonly develops in men > 60 years of age with a history of hypertension, abdominal trauma, and/or history of recreational drug use (e.g., cocaine), or in younger patients with connective tissues disorders (e.g., Marfan syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome), none of which apply to this patient. While aortic dissection cannot be excluded entirely, another cause for this patient's findings is more likely.

**B - Abdominal aortic aneurysm** - Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a mostly asymptomatic condition, but rupture of an AAA can lead to sudden onset abdominal pain, nausea, hypotension, and lower limb and mesenteric ischemia, all of which are seen in this case. However, other findings, such as a tender pulsatile abdominal mass and bruit on auscultation, would be expected as well. Moreover, AAAs most commonly develop in men > 60 years of age with a history of smoking, atherosclerosis, hypertension, and/or hypercholesterolemia.

**C - Cerebrovascular ischemia** - Cerebrovascular ischemia (e.g., due to stroke) can lead to sudden onset lower limb paresis and paresthesia, as seen in this case. However, a focal (i.e., unilateral) pattern of involvement would be expected as well. Furthermore, this patient's other symptoms (e.g., lower limb pallor, poikilothermia, pulse deficit, severe abdominal pain) are inconsistent with cerebrovascular ischemia.

**D - Left ventricular failure** - Left ventricular failure with a severely decreased ejection fraction can manifest with bilateral lower limb ischemia and cause nonocclusive mesenteric ischemia. Although this patient presents with all of the aforementioned findings, she lacks any of the characteristic symptoms of left ventricular failure (e.g., dyspnea, orthopnea, cardiac asthma, bibasilar rales on auscultation). In addition, her echocardiography showed isolated left atriomegaly, whereas left ventricular failure is characterized by an increase in both left atrial and ventricular sizes.

