### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Administer labetalol** - Intravenous labetalol, a beta blocker, lowers the heart rate and reduces the left ventricular ejection fraction, thereby reducing shearing forces within the aorta. Descending aortic dissections (Stanford type B) do not require surgical intervention; medical management with sedation and analgesia, fluid resuscitation, supplemental oxygen, and hypertensive control is sufficient if there are no complications (e.g., aortic rupture or vessel occlusion). If intravenous beta-blocker therapy does not lower systolic blood pressure to 90–120 mm Hg, patients should also receive intravenous sodium nitroprusside, which dilates vessels by releasing nitric oxide, thereby reducing pressure on the vessel wall.

Image File: 449-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cadd9f57138d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Begin heparin therapy** - Heparin therapy is part of the management for patients who present with pulmonary embolism (PE) or acute coronary syndrome (ACS), both of which can manifest with the sudden onset of chest pain and shortness of breath. However, a CT scan in a patient with PE would show filling defects within the pulmonary vasculature. ACS would not result in the findings seen on this patient's CT scan. Giving heparin to this patient could worsen his dissection by limiting clot formation that could control the dissection.

**B - Surgical intervention only** - Emergent surgical intervention is critical for the management of ascending aortic dissections (Stanford type A) and complications of aortic dissection, including aortic rupture. This patient, however, has a descending aortic dissection and does not present with signs of aortic rupture, which would cause hypotension.

**C - Administer labetalol followed by surgical intervention** - Emergent surgical intervention is critical in the management of ascending aortic dissections (Stanford type A) because of the high risk of complications such as aortic rupture, acute aortic regurgitation, myocardial infarction, and cardiac tamponade. This patient, however, has no signs of involvement of the ascending aorta, such as an anterior location of the chest pain, a pulse deficit of the upper extremities (due to involvement of the brachiocephalic trunk), or neurologic deficits (due to involvement of the carotid arteries). In addition, this patient has no signs or symptoms of a complication that would warrant immediate surgical intervention, including aortic regurgitation (new onset murmur), cardiac tamponade (pulsus paradoxus, jugular venous distension, electrical alternans), or aortic rupture (severe hypotension).

Image File: 449-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d926345a1.jpg

**E - Administer tissue plasminogen activator** - Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) is part of the management for patients who present with massive pulmonary embolism (PE). Although PE can manifest with the sudden onset of chest pain and shortness of breath, which are seen here, a CT scan would also show filling defects within the pulmonary vasculature. Giving tPA to this patient could worsen his dissection by limiting clot formation that could control the dissection.

**F - Administer aspirin** - Aspirin is part of the management for patients who present with acute coronary syndrome (ACS). Although ACS can manifest with the sudden onset of pain and shortness of breath, which this patient has, it would not result in the CT scan findings seen here. Furthermore, this patient's ECG does not show signs of myocardial hypoxia: A STEMI would show ST elevations whereas unstable angina and NSTEMI can show ST depression, T wave inversion, or loss of the R wave.

