### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Duplex ultrasonography** - Duplex ultrasonography (compression ultrasonography) is the first-line investigation in patients with features suggestive of chronic venous insufficiency (CVI), as seen here. Evidence of venous reflux on duplex ultrasonography confirms the diagnosis of CVI. Duplex ultrasonography can help determine the course of treatment by identifying which valves are incompetent and assessing the patency of the previously thrombosed deep veins.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Computerized tomography scan with contrast** - Computed tomography scan with contrast of the lower extremities is used to evaluate patients for deep infections (e.g., abscesses), malignancy, or injury in the lower extremities. It is not used to evaluate for chronic venous insufficiency.

**B - Nerve conduction studies** - Nerve conduction studies are used to evaluate the function of the peripheral nervous system. They are particularly critical for diagnosing polyneuropathies (e.g., due to chronic diabetes mellitus). Although a polyneuropathy can manifest with asymmetric or unilateral pain, which is seen in this patient, the pain usually takes the form of a buzzing or tingling sensation, not a dull ache. Moreover, a polyneuropathy would not cause the edema and telangiectasias seen in this patient.

**C - D-dimer assay** - The D-dimer assay is a nonspecific test that is indicated for patients with a low pretest probability of acute deep venous thrombosis (DVT) to rule out an acute thrombotic event. The test has a high negative predictive value (> 95%); therefore, a negative test result effectively rules out the presence of a deep venous thrombosis or a pulmonary embolism.

**D - Ankle-brachial pressure index** - The ankle-brachial pressure index (ABPI) is used to screen for peripheral arterial disease (PAD) in patients who present with lower limb pain that suggests claudication pain (i.e., pain on walking that is relieved with rest). This patient's pain improves with walking, making PAD an unlikely cause of her symptoms. Her symptoms are consistent with a pathology of the venous system, which cannot be evaluated with ABPI.

