### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Elective endovascular aneurysm repair** - Elective surgical repair of an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is indicated in asymptomatic AAA ≥ 5.5 cm in diameter, rapid expansion (defined as > 1 cm per year), a symptomatic AAA of any size (as these are most likely to rupture), and saccular aneurysm of any size. This patient's AAA has increased > 1 cm in size over the past year and has a saccular morphology, both of which indicate that it should be surgically repaired. Endovascular aneurysm repair is minimally invasive and can be performed under local anesthesia. It is therefore preferred over open repair in patients with high operative risk, like this patient with multiple comorbidities.

Image File: 451-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f9e852ee8d00.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Adjustment of cardiovascular risk factors and follow-up CT in 12 months** - Conservative management of AAA includes adjustment of cardiovascular risk factors and aneurysm surveillance, and is indicated in asymptomatic AAA < 5.5 cm without rapid expansion, defined as > 1 cm expansion per year. This patient, however, has evidence of rapid expansion. In addition, duplex ultrasonography is as good as CT angiography in assessing the diameter of an aneurysm and is the preferred imaging modality for AAA surveillance. CT angiography is expensive, requires administration of IV contrast, and exposes the patient to radiation and hence, is not the preferred surveillance tool.

**B - Adjustment of cardiovascular risk factors and follow-up CT in 6 months** - Conservative management of AAA includes adjustment of cardiovascular risk factors and aneurysm surveillance. In general, conservative management is indicated in asymptomatic AAA < 5.5 cm without rapid expansion, defined as > 1 cm expansion per year. This patient, however, has evidence of rapid expansion. In addition, duplex ultrasonography is as good as CT angiography in assessing the diameter of an aneurysm and is the preferred imaging modality for AAA surveillance. CT angiography is expensive, requires administration of IV contrast, and exposes the patient to radiation and hence, is not the preferred surveillance tool.

**D - Elective open aneurysm repair** - Elective surgical repair of an AAA is indicated in asymptomatic AAA ≥ 5.5 cm in diameter, rapid expansion (defined as > 1 cm per year), and a symptomatic AAA of any size; as these are most likely to rupture. Although this patient's AAA has increased > 1 cm in size over the past year, she has multiple comorbidities that make an open surgery a high-risk procedure. Another treatment option is preferred in this patient.

**E - Adjustment of cardiovascular risk factors and follow-up ultrasound in 6 months** - Conservative management of AAA includes adjustment of cardiovascular risk factors and aneurysm surveillance. In general, conservative management is indicated in asymptomatic AAA < 5.5 cm without rapid expansion (< 1 cm expansion per year). This patient, however, has evidence of rapid expansion. There is currently no consensus on AAA surveillance. Most recommendations suggest ultrasonographic surveillance every 6 months for asymptomatic AAAs between 4–4.5 cm, 3-monthly surveillance for those between 4.5–5.5 cm, and annual surveillance for those between 3–4 cm.

**F - Adjustment of cardiovascular risk factors and follow-up ultrasound in 12 months** - Conservative management of AAA includes adjustment of cardiovascular risk factors and aneurysm surveillance. In general, conservative management is indicated in asymptomatic AAA < 5.5 cm without rapid expansion, defined as > 1 cm expansion per year. This patient, however, has evidence of rapid expansion. Annual ultrasonography is recommended, though, in a AAA with diameter between 3–4 cm.

