### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Ultrasonography of the neck** - This patient should first undergo ultrasonography to confirm the diagnosis of a thyroglossal duct cyst, the most common cause of midline neck mass. Ectopic thyroid tissue is present in many patients with the clinical features of a thyroglossal duct cyst. Since this ectopic tissue may be the patient's only functional thyroid tissue, ultrasonography should first be performed to confirm the presence of a normal thyroid gland and assess the cyst architecture, as well as to confirm that surgical excision of the cyst would not result in postoperative hypothyroidism. Thyroid function testing may be normal even if ectopic thyroid tissue is the only functioning tissue, but it may be useful if the thyroid gland has an abnormal appearance or is not visualized on ultrasound.

Image File: 453-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58b421ab9459a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Fine needle aspiration biopsy** - While fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNA) may help confirm the diagnosis of a thyroglossal duct cyst or exclude differential diagnoses, other noninvasive modalities are preferred. FNA may, however, be performed in an infected thyroglossal duct cyst to obtain samples for Gram stain and culture.

**B - Excision of the cyst, track and hyoid bone** - The Sistrunk procedure involves excision of the cyst, a portion of the hyoid bone, and the descending track originating from the foramen cecum and is the standard surgical treatment for thyroglossal duct cysts. This procedure is associated with the lowest risk of recurrence as compared to less extensive resections. Although early surgical excision is recommended to prevent infection of the thyroglossal duct cyst, confirmation of the diagnosis and exclusion of the presence of ectopic thyroid tissue should occur first.

**D - CT scan of the neck** - A CT scan would detect the cyst and provide valuable information for planning the surgery, but it would also expose the child to radiation. There are other sensitive imaging modalities that allow exposure to radiation to be avoided.

Image File: 453-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f8e6e10916b5.jpg

**E - Excision of the cyst and hyoid bone** - While surgical resection of the thyroglossal duct cysts usually involves excision of the cyst and the hyoid bone, more extensive resection is required to prevent recurrence. However, prior to any surgical intervention, the diagnosis should be confirmed and the presence of ectopic thyroid tissue excluded.

**F - Excision of the cyst** - Simple excision of the thyroglossal duct cysts is not the preferred approach to removal due to the high risk of recurrence. However, prior to any surgical intervention, the diagnosis should be confirmed and the presence of ectopic thyroid tissue excluded.

**G - Thyroid scintigraphy** - While thyroid scintigraphy can be used to rule out ectopic thyroid tissue, it is unnecessary to perform if the imaging method of choice reveals normal thyroid architecture and thyroid function testing is normal. Additionally, exposing children to radionucleotide material should be avoided, if possible.

