### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - 72-hour fasting test** - Symptoms of spontaneous episodic hypoglycemia that resolve with glucose administration or rest should raise concern for the Whipple triad. If hypoglycemia is not present at the time of evaluation, a 72-hour fasting test is indicated to reproduce hypoglycemic symptoms in order to reach a definitive diagnosis. Glucose and hypoglycemic studies, including measurement of insulin, C-peptide, proinsulin, and β-hydroxybutyrate, should be obtained at the beginning of the test and then repeated every 6 hours until the serum glucose falls below 60 mg/dL. C-peptide and proinsulin are measures of the endogenous production of insulin and are decreased in hypoglycemia; hypoglycemia with elevated C-peptide and proinsulin levels should raise concern for an insulinoma.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral glucose tolerance test** - An oral glucose tolerance test is used to diagnose diabetes mellitus and impaired glucose tolerance in patients with insulin resistance. Oral glucose tolerance testing was previously used to evaluate postprandial hypoglycemia. However, it has not been proven effective at evaluating spontaneous fasting hypoglycemia and would not be the appropriate next step for episodic hypoglycemia.

**B - 24-hour urine catecholamine test** - A 24-hour urine catecholamine test is used to diagnose pheochromocytoma. This patient's episodic palpitations and diaphoresis may be associated with pheochromocytoma. However, because his symptoms improve with glucose administration, they are consistent with episodic hypoglycemia, which is atypical in patients with pheochromocytoma.

**C - Dexamethasone suppression test** - A dexamethasone suppression test is a screening test for Cushing syndrome, which could explain this patient's weight gain and fatigue. However, Cushing syndrome more commonly causes hyperglycemia, as opposed to the hypoglycemic episodes seen in this patient. Other clinical features associated with hypercortisolism include central and neck obesity, easy bruising, striae, and proximal muscle weakness, none of which are present.

**E - Water deprivation test** - A water deprivation test is used to diagnose diabetes insipidus (DI). Although this patient has a history of lithium use, which is associated with nephrogenic DI, findings of polyuria, polydipsia, and hypernatremia would be expected.

**F - Corticotropin stimulation test** - A corticotropin stimulation test is the gold standard for diagnosing primary adrenal insufficiency, which can also manifest with hypoglycemia (due to decreased levels of cortisol), nausea, and fatigue. But adrenal insufficiency would typically lead to hypotension, whereas this patient is normotensive. Moreover, adrenal insufficiency is more commonly associated with weight loss, in contrast to this patient's weight gain.

