### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Primary thyroid lymphoma** - This patient presents with signs of hypothyroidism, including myxedema, constipation, obesity, voice hoarseness, and cool, dry skin. Primary thyroid lymphoma is a potential complication of Hashimoto's thyroiditis, the latter being the most common cause of hypothyroidism in the US. The next step in this patient to confirm hypothyroidism is to determine TSH levels and T4 levels.

Image File: 455-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e8c835de6be5.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Renal vein thrombosis** - A renal vein thrombosis may be a complication of nephrotic syndrome, which commonly presents with edemas. However, nephrotic syndrome typically starts with periorbital edema and later causes pitting edema. Furthermore, this patient does not present with frothy urine or signs of hypocalcemia while her non-pitting edema, constipation, obesity, voice hoarseness, and cool, dry skin make another diagnosis and potential complication more likely.

**B - Esophageal variceal hemorrhage** - Esophageal variceal hemorrhage is a complication of cirrhosis, which may manifest with dermatologic symptoms (e.g., spider angiomata, caput medusae, and palmar erythema). The non-pitting edema in this patient and her additional symptoms of constipation, obesity, voice hoarseness, and cool, dry skin indicate a different diagnosis and another potential complication.

**C - Proliferative retinopathy** - Proliferative retinopathy is often a complication of diabetes mellitus. While diabetes can present with dermatologic symptoms such as necrobiosis lipoidica, this patient does not have the typical erythematous plaques and ulcerations. In addition, non-pitting edema is not a common symptom of necrobiosis lipoidica, and this patient's additional symptoms of constipation, voice hoarseness, and cool, dry skin make another diagnosis and potential complication more likely.

**D - Elephantiasis** - Elephantiasis, or lymphatic filariasis commonly presents with edema of the lower extremities, as seen in this patient. However, this patient does not show the characteristic painful lymphadenopathy and is afebrile, which makes this parasitic infection unlikely. Furthermore, the patient travelled to Mexico, where filariasis is not endemic and has no history of travelling to endemic countries (e.g., Indonesia).

**F - Venous ulcer** - A venous ulcer may result from chronic venous insufficiency, which often presents with varicose veins, the scaly pruritic rash of stasis dermatitis, and pitting edema that starts in the ankle and can progress to the calf. While this patient's profession as a teacher puts her at increased risk of symptomatic venous insufficiency due to long periods of standing, she has no signs of varicose veins and her non-pitting edema and the additional symptoms of constipation, obesity, voice hoarseness, and cool, dry skin make another diagnosis and potential complication more likely.

**G - Arterial ulcer** - An arterial ulcer may result from peripheral arterial disease. However, this patient does not present with numbness, claudication, or weakness, and her intact distal pulses make another diagnosis and potential complication more likely.

