### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Increased 17-hydroxyprogesterone** - Increased levels of 17-hydroxyprogesterone, the physiological substrate for 21β-hydroxylase, confirm the diagnosis of 21β-hydroxylase enzyme deficiency. This enzyme deficiency is the most common cause of congenital adrenal hyperplasia and results in decreased synthesis of mineralocorticoids (e.g., aldosterone) and glucocorticoids (e.g., cortisone). Hypoaldosteronism causes hypotension and hyperkalemia and hypocortisolism leads to an increase in the secretion of ACTH from the pituitary gland. Stimulation of the adrenal cortex by ACTH results in adrenal hyperplasia and an increase in the production of adrenal androgens from steroid precursors such as 17-hydroxyprogesterone, thereby causing virilization in females.

Patients with 21β-hydroxylase enzyme deficiency are treated with lifelong glucocorticoid and fludrocortisone replacement therapy. Glucocorticoids correct hypocortisolism and improve virilization by reducing ACTH secretion and adrenal hyperandrogenism via negative feedback. Fludrocortisone acts as an aldosterone substitute.

Image File: 458-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ebd3f20df087.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Decreased dehydroepiandrosterone** - Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is a direct precursor for estrogen and testosterone biosynthesis, and therefore, will be elevated (not decreased) in patients with hyperandrogenism due to 21β-hydroxylase deficiency.

**C - Increased 11-deoxycorticosterone** - Increased levels of 11-deoxycorticosterone are seen in 11β-hydroxylase deficiency, a different cause of congenital adrenal hyperplasia, which also presents with female virilization. However, congenital adrenal hyperplasia typically presents with hypertension and hypokalemia rather than hypotension and hyperkalemia. 11-deoxycorticosterone is synthesized by 21β-hydroxylase from progesterone in the aldosterone synthesis pathway and would thus be decreased, not increased, in this patient.

**D - Increased bicarbonate** - The lack of aldosterone in patients with 21β-hydroxylase deficiency leads to decreased Na+-resorption (hyponatremia), decreased K+-secretion (hyperkalemia), and decreased H+-secretion (metabolic acidosis). Therefore, serum bicarbonate would be decreased, not increased in this patient, in an effort to buffer the lower pH.

**E - Increased corticosterone** - Levels of increased corticosterone, 11-deoxycorticosterone (DOC), and other precursors of the aldosterone synthesis pathway, are seen in 17α-hydroxylase deficiency. These patients also present with hypocortisolism and hypoaldosteronism, but are typically hypertensive and have hypoandrogenism. Unlike this patient's condition, 17α-hydroxylase deficiency causes hypokalemia, and affected girls have normal external genitalia at birth, but delayed or absent puberty later in life. Although an increase in aldosterone would be expected in 17α-hydroxylase deficiency, ↑ DOC (which has aldosterone-like activity) inhibits renin and so also aldosterone production. Hypertension occurs despite hypoaldosteronism because DOC possesses mineralocorticoid activity.

**F - Decreased renin activity** - Plasma renin activity is increased, not decreased, in patients with 21β-hydroxylase deficiency as a result of the low blood pressure and salt-wasting induced by the lack of aldosterone production. Decreased renin activity is seen in patients with 11β-hydroxylase deficiency.

