### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Spironolactone** - Spironolactone is an aldosterone receptor antagonist with antiandrogenic properties that is considered one of the most effective second-line treatment options for patients with hirsutism. Spironolactone can be used in patients with hirsutism that have shown minimal to no response after treatment with COCs for at least 6 months, as seen here, or in those who cannot take COCs.

In patients with renal dysfunction, spironolactone should be avoided because it can lead to metabolic and electrolyte imbalances, such as hyperkalemia, hyponatremia, and metabolic acidosis. If used as monotherapy (e.g., in women with contraindications to COCs), spironolactone should be combined with other contraceptive methods since it carries a risk of undervirilization in male fetuses.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Tamoxifen** - Tamoxifen is a selective estrogen receptor modulator most commonly used for the treatment of breast cancer. It would not be indicated for this patient with PCOS and hirsutism.

**C - Flutamide** - Flutamide is an androgen receptor blocker that can be used to treat hirsutism in patients who showed no improvement with COCs. However, flutamide is generally avoided because of potentially severe adverse effects (e.g., fatal hepatotoxicity). Other (safer) antiandrogenic agents should be considered in this patient.

**D - Photoepilation** - Photoepilation therapy is a direct and permanent hair removal method that may be used for patients with hirsutism. However, photoepilation does not reduce the increased androgen levels in patients with PCOS, which means hair regrowth may occur later on. Finally, other clinical features of hyperandrogenism, e.g., acne (as seen here), or androgenic alopecia, would still persist in these individuals.

**E - Danazol** - Danazol is a synthetic androgen with antigonadotropic (↓ LH/FSH) and antiestrogenic effects most commonly used for the treatment of endometriosis or fibrocystic breast disease. In PCOS, however, androgen levels are typically increased, which is why antiandrogens, not androgen agonists, should be used to improve this patient's hirsutism.

