### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Specific learning disorder** - This patient's history of difficulty reading, which has persisted for ≥ 6 months in the absence of intellectual disabilities or other disorders that could better explain this difficulty, is characteristic of dyslexia, a type of specific learning disorder. These conditions typically develop during early school years and can result in poor academic performance, as seen in this patient. General functioning and intelligence are usually normal. Learning difficulties vary in severity but usually persist into adulthood. Management of specific learning disorders includes academic support, psychotherapy, and extracurricular activities to improve academic and social inclusion.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intellectual developmental disorder** - Intellectual developmental disorder manifests with poor academic performance during childhood. However, this condition typically also causes more generalized impairments in cognitive function (e.g., in learning, abstract thinking, and reasoning) and adaptive function (e.g., in social interaction and daily activities), which are not seen here. In contrast, this patient only has difficulty reading and is otherwise described as a bright student.

**B - Childhood-onset fluency disorder** - Childhood-onset fluency disorder is characterized by disturbances in the normal fluency of speech, which can result in poor academic performance during childhood. Although this patient has difficulty with reading, her speech is intelligible and fluent.

**D - Autism spectrum disorder** - Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) can result in poor academic performance during childhood. However, this condition is also characterized by impairment in social interaction and communication as well as stereotyped patterns of behavior, interests, and activities, none of which are seen here. In addition, patients with ASD often have language impairment; this patient's speech is fluent and intelligible. Moreover, symptoms of ASD are typically evident before 2–3 years of age.

**E - Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder** - Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) can result in poor academic performance during childhood. However, this condition also typically manifests with symptoms of inattention (e.g., poor attention to detail, difficulty sustaining attention during tasks) and hyperactivity (e.g., restlessness, excessive talking, fidgeting), none of which are seen in this patient.

**F - Normal variation in academic attainment** - Normal variations in academic attainment include difficulty reading and poor academic performance during childhood. However, variations in academic attainment are usually associated with external factors, such as poor instruction or learning in a second language. In contrast, this patient's parents are native English speakers and her learning difficulties persist despite adequate educational opportunities (e.g., extra tutoring).

