### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Increased serum parathyroid hormone** - Increased serum parathyroid hormone would be found in primary hyperparathyroidism, a known cause of secondary hypertension, especially in patients with hypercalcemia, as seen here. Hypercalcemia, occurring as a result of primary hyperparathyroidism or otherwise, is thought to cause hypertension by affecting vascular reactivity and interrupting day-night blood pressure regulation. The most common causes of hypercalcemia are hyperparathyroidism and malignancy.

Image File: 460-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5adf5fb6f1a12.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increased serum aldosterone-to-renin ratio** - Elevated serum aldosterone-to-renin ratio indicates primary hyperaldosteronism (Conn syndrome). Primary hyperaldosteronism can cause secondary hypertension with features of hypokalemia (e.g., fatigue and muscle weakness). However, this patient's potassium level is normal. Moreover, hypercalcemia and symptoms such as recurrent renal stones or gastrointestinal complaints would not be expected in Conn syndrome.

**B - Increased 24-hour urine cortisol** - Elevated 24-hour urine cortisol is diagnostic of Cushing syndrome (hypercortisolism), which can cause of treatment-resistant secondary hypertension with lethargy and muscle weakness. However, it typically also presents with central obesity, thin and easily bruisable skin, abdominal striae, and proximal muscle atrophy, which are not seen in this patient.

**D - Decreased serum thyroid-stimulating hormone** - Decreased serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) would indicate hyperthyroidism, which is an important cause of treatment-resistant secondary hypertension and may present with weakness and fatigue, as seen here. Hyperthyroidism could also explain this patient's hypercalcemia, as thyroid hormones have osteoclastic activity. However, decreased appetite is not typical of hyperthyroidism, and this patient is lacking other symptoms that would be expected in the setting of thyroid hormone excess (e.g., heat intolerance, weight loss, diarrhea, tachycardia, tremor).

Image File: 460-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_61276bd9bc2d7.jpg

**E - Decreased renal blood flow** - Decreased renal blood flow due to renal artery stenosis or fibromuscular dysplasia is a common cause of treatment-resistant secondary hypertension, which is often accompanied by fatigue and weakness. Decreased perfusion triggers the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and causes persistent vasoconstriction as well as volume retention. However, renal artery stenosis would not explain this patient's hypercalcemia or recurrent kidney stones. Furthermore, constantly elevated aldosterone would lead to hypokalemia, which this patient does not have.

**F - Decreased nocturnal oxygen saturation** - Decreased nocturnal oxygen saturation is characteristic of patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), which can cause secondary hypertension and excessive daytime fatigue. However, OSA would not explain this patient's hypercalcemia, recurrent kidney stones, nausea, or decreased appetite.

**G - Increased serum insulin-like growth factor 1** - Elevated serum insulin-like growth factor 1 in an adult can indicate acromegaly, which may cause secondary hypertension. However, acromegaly presents with enlarged hands and feet, deepening of the voice, coarsened facial features, doughy skin, oligomenorrhea in women, and possible pituitary mass effect (headache, bilateral hemianopsia).

