### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Intravenous hydration with 0.9% normal saline and insulin** - Hyperglycemia (this patient's blood glucose is 570 mg/dL) is a manifestation of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) that leads to volume depletion via osmotic diuresis. The initial step in patients with DKA is to correct hypovolemia by replacing circulating (intravascular) volume through IV isotonic saline infusion. Volume expansion ensures adequate tissue perfusion, which improves glomerular filtration and the clearance of glucose and ketones from the body. If hypokalemia is ruled out, insulin infusion is initiated to further reduce glucose concentration. Serum glucose should be reduced by a maximum of 50 mg/dL per hour and, to prevent hypoglycemia, should initially not be allowed to fall below 250–300 mg/dL. Because insulin drives potassium into cells, potassium levels should be monitored closely. Subsequent fluid management is based on the patient's hydration status, sodium concentration, and potassium concentration.

Image File: 461-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60d58f6076dc7.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Intravenous hydration with 5% dextrose solution and 0.45% normal saline** - During the initial IV fluid resuscitation, blood glucose can fall rapidly. To avoid hypoglycemia, the infusion should be switched to 5% dextrose in saline if serum blood glucose levels fall to < 250–300 mg/dL. As this patient's serum glucose is currently 570 mg/dL, adding 5% dextrose is contraindicated. In addition, a hypotonic saline solution would not be appropriate in this hypovolemic patient who requires circulatory (extracellular) volume expansion.

**C - Intravenous hydration with 0.45% normal saline and insulin** - Half-normal saline (0.45%) solution is used in patients with hypernatremia (sodium levels > 145 mEq/L). In patients with DKA, however, the first step in management is volume resuscitation, in which hypotonic saline would not be appropriate for restoring circulatory volume. Subsequent fluid rate and composition should be adjusted based on the patient's hydration status and corrected sodium levels. Insulin therapy plays an important role in correcting hyperglycemia and should be initiated immediately as long as the patient's potassium levels are within the normal range (insulin decreases serum potassium).

**D - Intravenous hydration with 0.9% normal saline and potassium chloride** - The first step in a patient with diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) is correcting hypovolemia via an IV isotonic saline infusion. Serum potassium may be normal or elevated in DKA, despite systemic potassium deficiency. This is due to a shift of potassium from the intracellular to the extracellular space during hyperglycemia and its subsequent loss in the urine. However, potassium chloride should only be administered before insulin therapy if the patient is hypokalemic.

**E - Intravenous hydration with 5% dextrose solution and potassium chloride** - During the initial IV fluid resuscitation, blood glucose can fall rapidly. To avoid hypoglycemia, the infusion should be switched to 5% dextrose in saline if serum blood glucose levels fall to < 250–300 mg/dL. As this patient's serum glucose is currently 570 mg/dL, adding 5% dextrose is contraindicated. In addition, potassium chloride should only be administered before insulin therapy if the patient is hypokalemic.

**F - Intravenous insulin therapy** - Continuous IV insulin infusion is essential to reduce hyperglycemia, but it is not the only first measure. Hyperglycemia leads to volume depletion via osmotic diuresis and this volume depletion needs to be addressed as well.

**G - Intravenous sodium bicarbonate** - Sodium bicarbonate provides no added benefit when the arterial blood pH is greater than 6.9 (it is 7.25 in this patient) and may even be harmful, as it can worsen ketonemia and cause cerebral edema.

