### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Cosyntropin administration** - The cosyntropin test, or ACTH stimulation test, is the most appropriate and confirmatory diagnostic step for suspected primary adrenal insufficiency, as indicated by the patient's low serum cortisol levels and clinical presentation. Serum cortisol levels are measured before and after the patient is given exogenous ACTH. In a patient with normal adrenal function, the cortisol levels should rise dramatically in response to the ACTH, whereas in a patient with primary adrenal insufficiency, cortisol levels should remain low.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - TSH measurement** - TSH measurement would be an appropriate diagnostic test for suspected thyroid dysfunction. This patient does not have features of hyperthyroidism (e.g., heat intolerance, diarrhea, menstrual irregularities), nor of hypothyroidism (e.g., weight gain, cold intolerance, dry skin, constipation). Additionally, neither condition would explain this patient's other signs of hypoaldosteronism and hypocortisolism.

**B - Urine aldosterone level measurement** - Urine aldosterone levels are typically used for the evaluation of hypoaldosteronism, hyperaldosteronism, and/or evaluation of incidental adrenal masses. While this patient has signs of hypoaldosteronism (hyperkalemia, hyponatremia), it is secondary to her adrenal insufficiency, and another test is indicated to confirm the diagnosis.

**C - 24-hour urine cortisol measurement** - A 24-hour urine cortisol measurement would be an appropriate diagnostic test for suspected hypercortisolism, such as in a patient with features of Cushing syndrome. This patient's presentation is more consistent with low cortisol levels in the setting of chronic adrenal insufficiency.

**D - Hydrocortisone administration** - IV hydrocortisone is used in the emergency treatment of acute adrenal crisis, in which case it is often given before diagnostic workup has been completed. This patient has stable vital signs and a history suggestive of chronic adrenal insufficiency; she does not require administration of emergency stress-dose steroids at this time and further diagnostic workup of her condition is indicated.

**E - Glucagon level measurement** - Glucagon level measurement would be an appropriate diagnostic test for suspected glucagonoma. While glucagonoma can cause weight loss, hyperglycemia would be expected. In contrast, this patient has hypoglycemia secondary to chronic adrenal insufficiency. It would also not explain this patient's other signs of hypoaldosteronism and hypocortisolism.

**F - Adrenal imaging** - Imaging of the abdomen (e.g, with CT, MRI or ultrasound) may be used to visualize the adrenal glands as part of the diagnostic workup for confirmed adrenal insufficiency. Although this patient's clinical presentation and lab findings are highly suggestive of adrenal insufficiency, another test is indicated to confirm the diagnosis.

