### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Elevated serum TSH** - Elevated serum TSH is seen in hypothyroidism, a condition that typically causes fatigue, weight gain, and bradycardia, which are all seen in this patient. Cognitive dysfunction, this patient's presenting symptom, is especially prevalent in elderly patients with hypothyroidism and can often mimic Alzheimer disease and other dementias. All patients with cognitive impairment must be evaluated for hypothyroidism, as this is a treatable and reversible condition.

Image File: 469-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e8c835de6be5.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Decreased serum vitamin B12** - Vitamin B12 deficiency is a reversible cause of cognitive impairment that is associated with anemia and neurologic dysfunction (e.g., subacute combined degeneration, peripheral neuropathy, incontinence). However, it does not typically cause many of the other symptoms this patient is experiencing, such as weight gain and bradycardia. Although all patients with dementia should be evaluated for vitamin B12 deficiency, it would be an unlikely cause of this patient's impairment.

**B - Diffuse cortical atrophy on brain MRI** - Diffuse cortical atrophy on neuroimaging is a characteristic finding in Alzheimer dementia, the most common irreversible cause of dementia in elderly patients. Though this patient shows signs of impaired cognition (the hallmark of Alzheimer), she also has weight gain and bradycardia, which are not associated with the disease.

Image File: 469-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_547454f18d0bf.jpg

**C - Ventriculomegaly on CT scan of the head** - Enlarged cerebral ventricles on CT scan of the head is a characteristic finding in normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH), a condition that manifests with dementia, gait ataxia, and urinary incontinence (remember: “wacky, wobbly, wet”). This patient does not report any gait abnormalities or incontinence, however, and NPH would not explain her weight gain and bradycardia.

Image File: 469-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9162a087.jpg

**D - Elevated blood leukocyte count** - An elevated WBC count can be seen in infection. Acute delirium in an elderly woman is often the result of a urinary tract infection. Accordingly, a urinalysis should be performed in all elderly patients with confusion. However, this patient's symptoms are more characteristic of dementia (4-month history; progressive) and not delirium, which would follow a waxing-waning course that is worse at night. Delirium also commonly presents with illusions and/or hallucinations, both of which are absent in this patient. Acute infections generally do not cause dementia; consequently, her WBC count is likely to be normal.

