### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Intestinal malabsorption** - This patient's symptoms of intermittent diarrhea, bloating, weight loss, and microcytic anemia (due to iron malabsorption) are concerning for celiac disease. Hypocalcemia can occur secondary to vitamin D deficiency from impaired intestinal absorption of vitamin D. Patients with celiac disease can develop low bone mineral density from vitamin D deficiency, osteoporosis, osteomalacia, and an increased risk of pathologic fractures, as seen in this patient. Osteomalacia is characterized by impaired mineralization and disrupted microarchitecture at the growth plate.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Impaired cholecalciferol synthesis in the skin** - Cholecalciferol is derived in the skin from 7-dehydrocholesterol during exposure to sunlight (UVB radiation). Reduced sun exposure can lead to vitamin D deficiency and resulting hypocalcemia, as seen in this patient, However, this patient's history of daily walks in the park lowers her risk of insufficient sunlight exposure. Moreover, her history of diarrhea, bloating, and microcytic anemia are more suggestive of an alternative diagnosis.

**B - Low dietary intake of calcium** - Low dietary intake of calcium could cause chronic hypocalcemia, which can lead to osteopenia and osteoporosis but not to osteomalacia. Although this patient's compression fracture is consistent with osteoporosis, the epiphyseal widening and muscle weakness is not. Additionally, hypocalcemia is usually a result of underlying disease, not of low dietary intake.

**D - Decreased parathyroid hormone synthesis** - Hypoparathyroidism, which can be caused by autoimmune destruction of the parathyroid glands, may result in hypocalcemia. This patient has a history of type 1 diabetes mellitus, which makes autoimmune hypoparathyroidism a possibility, but anemia and proximal muscle weakness are not explained by hypoparathyroidism alone. Moreover, hypoparathyroidism is not associated with the diarrhea, bloating, or weight loss seen in this patient.

**E - Impaired hydroxylation of calcifediol** - Impaired hydroxylation of calcifediol (25-hydroxyvitamin D) to calcitriol (1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D) is caused by decreased 1-alpha-hydroxylase activity in chronic kidney disease (CKD). It can lead to renal osteodystrophy and manifest with osteomalacia and bone pain. Reduction in 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels results in hypocalcemia, hyperphosphatemia, and secondary hyperparathyroidism. However, this patient's normal creatinine is inconsistent with chronic kidney disease. Moreover, impaired hydroxylation of calcifediol does not explain this patient's diarrhea, bloating, or weight loss. In addition, CKD can also cause anemia due to decreased erythropoietin production, which decreases stimulation of RBC production. However, anemia of chronic kidney disease is a normocytic, normochromic anemia rather than the microcytic anemia seen in this patient.

