### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Erectile dysfunction** - This patient has a pituitary adenoma, the most common form of which is a prolactinoma that can cause hyperprolactinemia. Hyperprolactinemia results in hypogonadotropic hypogonadism because prolactin inhibits the synthesis and release of GnRH, which results in decreased secretion of FSH and LH. In men, decreased concentrations of LH result in decreased production of testosterone in testicular Leydig cells. The resulting manifestations include erectile dysfunction, decreased libido, reduced testicular volume, infertility, gynecomastia, and loss of axillary hair.

Image File: 474-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d950b62ff.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Galactorrhea** - This patient has a pituitary adenoma, the most common form of which is a prolactinoma that can cause hyperprolactinemia. Galactorrhea is a very rare manifestation of hyperprolactinemia in men; it is much more common in premenopausal women who have hyperprolactinemia.

**B - Coarse facial features** - This patient has a pituitary adenoma, a rare variant of which is a somatotroph adenoma that can produce growth hormone. In adults, excess growth hormone can result in acromegaly, which typically manifests with coarse facial features. However, this patient does not have typical manifestations of acromegaly, such as macrognathia, large hands and feet, and hypertension. He has another type of pituitary adenoma that is much more common and produces other distinct symptoms.

**C - Diffuse goiter** - This patient has a pituitary adenoma, a rare variant of which is a thyrotroph adenoma that can produce thyroid-stimulating hormone. A TSH-producing pituitary adenoma can result in the development of a diffuse goiter and hyperthyroidism. However, this patient does not have typical manifestations of hyperthyroidism, such as tachycardia, palpitations, tremor, and heat intolerance. He has another type of pituitary adenoma that is much more common and produces other distinct symptoms.

**E - Abdominal striae** - This patient has a pituitary adenoma, a variant of which can produce adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cause Cushing disease, which results in the development of abdominal striae. However, this patient does not have other typical manifestations of Cushing disease, such as facial plethora, proximal muscle weakness, abnormal fat distribution, and easy bruising. He has another type of pituitary adenoma that is much more common and produces other distinct symptoms.

