### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Empty sella turcica on MRI of the brain** - An empty sella turcica is a common imaging finding in patients with Sheehan syndrome. The anterior pituitary gland receives its blood supply from a relatively low-pressure arterial system and is, therefore, vulnerable to ischemia and infarction. During pregnancy, hypertrophy of prolactin-producing regions increases the size of the pituitary gland, making it very sensitive to ischemia, e.g., secondary to prolonged or severe postpartum bleeding, which has occurred in this patient. In the months following the initial ischemic insult, the pituitary gland progressively atrophies, resulting in an empty sella turcica on brain imaging. Since the pattern of hormone deficiency may vary depending on the extent of pituitary necrosis, each hormone deficiency must be tested individually.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Withdrawal bleeding after progesterone challenge test** - Withdrawal bleeding after a progesterone challenge test can be observed in amenorrheic women with anovulatory cycles (e.g., due to polycystic ovary syndrome). These cycles, in which no corpus luteum (and, therefore, no progesterone) is produced, result in unopposed hyperestrogenism and absent/irregular endometrial shedding, which lead to menstrual irregularities (e.g., amenorrhea, oligomenorrhea). Sheehan syndrome causes hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, resulting in decreased levels of both estrogen and progesterone. Therefore, withdrawal bleeding would only be expected after a combined estrogen and progesterone challenge test rather than a progesterone challenge test alone.

**B - Decreased serum level of aldosterone** - A decrease in serum aldosterone levels can be seen in patients with primary adrenal insufficiency (e.g., due to autoimmune adrenalitis, adrenalectomy). Sheehan syndrome, however, causes secondary adrenal insufficiency (i.e., due to ACTH deficiency). Since aldosterone is regulated by the RAAS system, which is independent of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, it remains unchanged in patients with Sheehan syndrome. In this patient with hypotension, aldosterone would most likely be increased.

**C - Increased serum level of TSH** - Increased serum levels of TSH can be seen in patients with primary hypothyroidism. Sheehan syndrome, however, causes secondary hypothyroidism due to pituitary ischemia. Therefore, decreased rather than increased serum TSH levels would be expected.

**D - Low urine osmolality after desmopressin administration** - Low urine osmolality after desmopressin administration is characteristic of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (DI). Although it is rare (as the posterior pituitary receives its blood supply from a high-pressure arterial system, being less prone to ischemia than the anterior pituitary), central DI is associated with Sheehan syndrome, not nephrogenic DI. Central DI manifests with an increase rather than a decrease in urine osmolality after desmopressin administration.

