### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Potassium iodide** - Potassium iodide should be administered immediately to prevent complications of high-dose radioiodine therapy (I131). In the case of excess exposure to radioactive iodine (e.g., in patients undergoing radioactive iodine ablation or after a nuclear accident), potassium iodide is used to decrease radioactive iodine uptake in the thyroid gland, which decreases the risk of radiation thyroiditis and radiation-induced thyroid cancer. When administered immediately after radioactive iodine overdose, nonradioactive iodine in potassium iodide competes with radioactive I131 and prevents uptake into the thyroid gland. Potassium iodide also inhibits the release of thyroid hormone by preventing the proteolytic cleavage of T3 and T4 from thyroglobulin. Therefore, it can be used as an adjunct therapy in hyperthyroidism and thyroid storm, as well as a pretreatment before thyroid surgery.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Amifostine** - Amifostine acts as an oxygen free radical scavenger and is used to prevent nephrotoxic side effects in patients receiving chemotherapy with platinum-based, alkylating agents (e.g., cisplatin, carboplatin, and oxaliplatin). Amifostine can prevent salivary gland damage in the case of head and neck radiation or radioiodine therapy. However, it cannot protect the thyroid gland against radioactive iodine toxicity because it does not prevent the uptake of radioactive iodine in the thyroid gland.

**B - Propylthiouracil** - Propylthiouracil, an antithyroid drug that inhibits thyroid peroxidase and the peripheral conversion of T4 to T3, is indicated in the treatment of hyperthyroidism and is the drug of choice in thyroid storm. It would not be used to treat potential radioactive iodine toxicity because it does not prevent the uptake of radioactive iodine in the thyroid gland.

**C - Mercaptoethanesulfonate** - Mercaptoethanesulfonate (MESNA) potentially inactivates the toxic metabolite acrolein and is therefore used to prevent hemorrhagic cystitis in patients undergoing chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide or ifosfamide. It would not be used to treat potential radioactive iodine toxicity because it does not prevent the uptake of radioactive iodine in the thyroid gland.

**E - Methimazole** - Methimazole, an antithyroid drug that inhibits thyroid peroxidase and decreases thyroid hormone synthesis, is indicated in the treatment of hyperthyroidism and thyroid storm. Methimazole can be used prior to the administration of radioactive iodine therapy in patients with Graves disease to control the initial hyperthyroid phase. It would not be used to treat potential radioactive iodine toxicity because it does not prevent the uptake of radioactive iodine in the thyroid gland.

**F - Dexrazoxane** - Dexrazoxane, an iron-chelating agent, is used to prevent cardiotoxicity associated with anthracycline-based chemotherapeutic agents such as doxorubicin and daunorubicin. It would not be used to treat potential radioactive iodine toxicity because it does not prevent the uptake of radioactive iodine in the thyroid gland.

