### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - High calorie diet** - The major mechanism leading to type II diabetes (T2DM) is peripheral insulin resistance. As the leading risk factor for the development of T2DM, obesity is believed to intensify peripheral insulin resistance, which causes inhibited glucose uptake from the bloodstream and impaired anabolic metabolism. Factors that increase the risk of obesity, and thus T2DM, include a high-calorie diet and sedentary lifestyle.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Alcohol consumption** - Excessive alcohol consumption is a risk factor for the development of acute and chronic pancreatitis, alcoholic liver disease, and malignancies such as esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. However, alcohol consumption is not associated with an increased risk of T2DM.

**B - Caucasian ethnicity** - While the prevalence of type 1 diabetes mellitus is highest among non-Hispanic Caucasian patients, this patient has type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The highest rates of T2DM are seen among the Hispanic, African American, Native American, Asian American, and Pacific Islander populations. Caucasian ethnicity is not a risk factor for T2DM.

**D - Smoking history** - Smoking is the leading risk factor for the development of lung and pancreatic cancer and increases the risk of many other conditions. It is associated with up to a 6-fold increase in the risk of developing a malignancy, especially in individuals with a long history of smoking, and has been shown to lower the age of disease onset. However, there is no evidence for an association between smoking and T2DM.

**E - HLA-DR4 status** - HLA-DR4 is strongly associated with numerous autoimmune diseases, including type I diabetes mellitus. However, this patient has type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), which is caused by a combination of hereditary and environmental factors and is strongly associated with metabolic syndrome. T2DM is not an autoimmune condition and is not associated with HLA-DR4.

