### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Increased fasting serum glucagon level** - Increased fasting glucagon levels indicate glucagonoma, a pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasm. Excess glucagon increases gluconeogenesis and inhibits glycolysis, causing hyperglycemia and/or mild diabetes. Anemia may be a result of anemia of chronic illness or directly related to the inhibitory effect of glucagon on erythropoiesis. As seen here, patients with glucagonoma can also present with neuropsychiatric symptoms (e.g., depression, dementia, ataxia). Necrolytic migratory erythema is characterized by the occurrence of multiple, centrifugally spreading erythemas, located predominantly on the face, perineum, and lower extremities, which develop into painful and pruritic crusty patches with central areas of bronze-colored induration. These lesions tend to resolve and then reappear in a different location.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Antibodies against hemidesmosomes** - Antibodies against hemidesmosomes are present in bullous pemphigoid (BP), which is the most common bullous autoimmune disease in patients older than 60 years of age. This patient is not in the typical age group for developing BP. The lesions in BP start as pruritic, whealy papules that go on to develop into tense blisters. While the Nikolsky sign is not present in this patient, which is also the case in BP, the condition is not associated with hyperglycemia, chronic diarrhea, or anemia.

**B - Antibodies against glutamic acid decarboxylase** - Anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase antibodies (anti-GAD antibodies) are found in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus, which can also present with hyperglycemia, weight loss, and anemia. However, patients with type 1 diabetes do not present with necrolytic migratory erythema, which is seen in this patient.

**D - Increased serum vasoactive intestinal polypeptide level** - Increased levels of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) are seen in patients with VIPoma, which commonly presents with chronic watery diarrhea and associated weight loss. In addition, patients typically have achlorhydria, hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia. However, necrolytic migratory erythema is not seen in patients with VIPoma and suggests another diagnosis.

**E - Antibodies against desmoglein 1 and 3** - Antibodies against desmoglein 1 and 3 are present in pemphigus vulgaris, a rare autoimmune disease that causes multiple blistering lesions. However, the Nikolsky sign is positive in pemphigus vulgaris and the skin lesions are not migratory. Furthermore, patients with pemphigus vulgaris do not have hyperglycemia, chronic diarrhea, or weight loss.

Image File: 484-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_545ce3a6bfa9f.jpg

**F - Decreased serum zinc levels** - Severely decreased serum zinc levels are typically found in zinc uptake deficiency (e.g., in acrodermatitis enteropathica), which can also present with chronic diarrhea and anemia. However, neither the hereditary form (manifests at young age with failure to thrive) nor the acquired form (secondary to celiac disease or inflammatory bowel disease) is associated with hyperglycemia. Furthermore, this patient lacks other symptoms of zinc deficiency, such as impaired taste, hypogonadism, or night blindness.

**G - Villous atrophy in small bowel biopsy** - Villous atrophy is typically found in celiac disease, a malabsorptive condition that can cause chronic diarrhea and anemia. Secondary skin lesions can develop due to zinc malabsorption. While the skin lesions (especially perioral blistering lesions) in this condition may be very similar to necrolytic migratory erythema, they do not migrate and they do not have a central area of induration. Patients with celiac disease commonly experience abdominal cramps and depression. However, hyperglycemia is not a typical finding.

