### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - A** - Patients with hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state (HHS) typically present with marked hyperglycemia (e.g, serum glucose > 600 mg/dL), which in turn causes increased serum osmolality (e.g. usually > 320 mOsm/kg). There is usually negligible ketone formation, due to the presence of endogenous insulin (as compared to DKA, where there is no endogenous insulin and so ketones are formed). Sodium levels are usually low, due to extracellular water shifts from the hyperosmolarity (hypertonic hyponatremia). While bicarbonate is consumed rapidly in diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA), individuals with HHS often present with normal or only mildly decreased serum bicarbonate levels (usually ≥ 18 mEq/L).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - B** - This combination is consistent with diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). Patients with DKA typically present with hyperglycemia (but serum glucose usually remains < 600 mg/dL), increased serum osmolality (usually > 290 mOsm/kg), and formation of ketones. Sodium levels are usually low or normal, due to extracellular water shifts (hypertonic hyponatremia). Serum bicarbonate is consumed rapidly, leading to decreased serum bicarbonate levels (usually < 18 mEq/L) and acidemia. While this patient's presentation is somewhat consistent with DKA, the absence of ketones in both the urine and blood make this very unlikely. She also lacks other typical features of DKA, such as a rapid onset of symptoms, abdominal pain, fruity odor on the breath (from exhaled acetone) and hyperventilation (Kussmaul respirations).

**C - C** - While this combination of hyperglycemia and hyperosmolarity is otherwise consistent with the patient's presentation of hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state (HHS), the sodium level is not consistent with her presentation. Corrected for her hyperglycemia, the sodium level would be approximately 157 mg/dL (measured sodium + 0.016*[serum glucose-100]), and at that level severe neurologic symptoms (e.g., seizure, coma) would be expected.

**D - D** - The combination of low osmolarity and low sodium level indicates either decreased intravascular volume (hypovolemic hypotonic hyponatremia), and/or increased levels of ADH (e.g., due to SIADH), and is not consistent with this patient's presentation of hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state (HHS). This patient doesn't have any reported history of diarrhea and/or vomiting to suggest an etiology for hypovolemic hyponatremia. Additionally, her increased serum glucose (which is expected given the presence of large glucosuria) should cause increase in serum osmolarity, unlike the low osmolarity seen here.

Image File: 485-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ac7c744bfcd.jpg

**E - E** - This combination of hypernatremia and increased serum osmolarity would be consistent with dehydration from unreplaced water losses (e.g., from diarrhea, insensible losses, etc), which can present similarly to this patient (dry mucous membranes, fatigue, confusion). However, the normal glucose seen here is not consistent with the presence of large glucosuria in this patient, and does not fit with the diagnosis of hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state (HHS).

