### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Perform saline infusion test** - The saline infusion test is used to confirm the diagnosis of primary hyperaldosteronism. In healthy individuals, the increased intravascular volume is sensed by the kidney, which in turn decreases renin secretion. When renin levels decrease, the conversion of angiotensinogen to angiotensin I, and subsequently angiotensin I to angiotensin II, also decreases. Lower levels of angiotensin II result in less stimulation of the adrenal gland's zona glomerulosa to release aldosterone. Failure to inhibit aldosterone (PAC > 10 ng/dL) with this test indicates autonomous aldosterone release (renin-independent) and confirms the diagnosis of primary hyperaldosteronism. Alternative confirmatory tests include oral sodium loading, fludrocortisone suppression, and captopril suppression. After the diagnosis is established biochemically, an adrenal CT should be performed to identify the cause of primary hyperaldosteronism. Because adrenal incidentalomas are fairly common, adrenal CT should not be used as the initial diagnostic test (to avoid the potential for false positives).

Image File: 486-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59107fef388d2.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform renal duplex ultrasonography** - Renal duplex ultrasound can be used to diagnose renal artery stenosis, which can also present with hypertension and hypokalemia, as in this patient. However, the plasma renin activity would be elevated, not decreased, and the BUN/creatinine ratio be ≥ 20:1, indicating renal hypoperfusion. Moreover, this patient lacks clinical features like abdominal bruits, making an alternative diagnosis more likely.

**B - Perform CT scan of the abdomen** - CT scan helps identify the location and extent of an adrenal lesion. It also provides information regarding the type of tumor, benign (adenoma or hyperplasia) or malignant (carcinoma), and differentiates unilateral from bilateral lesions. However, primary hyperaldosteronism should be confirmed before further workup is performed.

**C - Measure thyroid-stimulating hormone concentration** - Increased levels of TSH are caused by hypothyroidism, which can also present with constipation, fatigue, weakness, decreased tendon reflexes, and hypertension (due to increased vascular resistance). However, this patient lacks other findings of hypothyroidism such as weight gain, myxedema, amenorrhea or depression. Moreover, this patient's abnormal PRA or PAC cannot be explained by thyroid disease.

**D - Measure urine pH and anion gap** - Urine pH and anion gap are helpful for diagnosing renal tubular acidosis (RTA), of which both type 1 and type 2 can also present with hypokalemia like this patient. However, RTA does not cause hypertension, and plasma bicarbonate levels would be decreased rather than increased. Moreover, this patient lacks other symptoms of RTA, like nephrolithiasis (type 1) or vitamin-D resistant rickets (type 2).

**E - Perform dexamethasone suppression test** - Dexamethasone suppression test is used for diagnosis of Cushing syndrome, which can also present with hypertension, fatigue, weakness, and possibly hypokalemia, as in this patient. However this patient's normal glucose level and abnormal PRA and PAC, make this diagnosis very unlikely. Moreover, this patient is lacking other symptoms of Cushing syndrome, such as weight gain, easily bruisable skin, striae or hirsutism.

