### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Radioactive iodine ablation** - Among the treatment options for Graves disease, radioactive iodine ablation (RAIA) has the lowest recurrence rate. During this procedure, hyperfunctioning tissue takes up the radioactive iodine and is ablated. In patients with Graves disease, the entire thyroid gland hyperfunctions due to stimulatory antithyroid antibodies. Radioactive iodine thus ablates the whole gland and permanently cures hyperthyroidism. Pretreatment with antithyroid drugs is not necessary for patients with less severe hyperthyroidism.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Subtotal thyroidectomy** - Subtotal thyroidectomy leaves a remnant of each lobe of the thyroid gland. Graves disease has a high recurrence rate when treated with this procedure. Surgical options that have a lower rate of recurrence include total thyroidectomy and near-total thyroidectomy. Indications for surgery to treat Graves disease include severe Graves ophthalmopathy, large goiters that cause tracheal and/or neural compression, gestational Graves disease (second trimester) in patients who cannot tolerate antithyroid drugs, and contraindications to antithyroid drugs (e.g., hypersensitivity reactions). Complications of surgery include hypoparathyroidism and damage to the recurrent laryngeal nerve.

**C - Propranolol** - Beta-blockers like propranolol are used in the acute treatment of symptoms of sympathetic hyperactivity in patients with symptoms of hyperthyroidism (e.g., palpitations, tremor, lid retraction, neuropsychiatric symptoms). However, they play no role in the definitive treatment of hyperthyroidism.

**D - Methimazole** - Methimazole can be used as pretreatment before definitive treatment of patients with severe hyperthyroidism to rapidly achieve euthyroid status or as definitive treatment for some cases of mild hyperthyroidism. Definitive treatment with antithyroid drugs may take 1–2 years, and older studies conducted in the US show a recurrence rate of 70–80%. However, recurrence rates in Europe and Asia are much lower, and antithyroid drugs are often used as definitive treatment in these continents. In addition, long-term methimazole therapy is associated with rare but serious adverse effects such as hypersensitivity, agranulocytosis, and hepatotoxicity. In this young patient with less severe hyperthyroidism (thyroid hormone levels below 2–3 times normal concentrations), pretreatment is not necessary and, in the US, a different therapeutic approach that has a lower recurrence rate is preferred.

**E - Potassium iodide** - Iodides like oral potassium iodide (Lugol iodine solution) inhibit the release of thyroid hormones from the gland, which results in a rapid decrease in circulating thyroid hormone levels. Iodides are therefore useful as adjunctive treatment of hyperthyroidism or thyroid storm. However, iodides are not used as the sole or definitive treatment of hyperthyroidism because the thyroid gland overcomes the iodide block within a few weeks and uses the exogenous iodides to synthesize more thyroid hormones, which exacerbates hyperthyroidism.

**F - Propylthiouracil** - Propylthiouracil can be used as a pretreatment before definitive treatment in patients with severe hyperthyroidism to rapidly achieve euthyroid status or as a definitive treatment. In this young patient with less severe hyperthyroidism (thyroid hormone levels below 2–3 times normal concentrations), pretreatment is not necessary and, in the US, a different therapeutic approach with a lower recurrence rate is preferred.

