### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Octreotide** - Octreotide is a somatostatin analog that inhibits the release of GH and is the medical treatment of choice for acromegaly if transsphenoidal hypophysectomy is not an option. The prolonged excess of both growth hormone and IGF-1 (which is secreted from the liver in response to elevated GH) results in the overgrowth of bone, cartilage, and other connective tissues, resulting in the characteristic findings of skin thickening, enlarged jaw (macrognathia), coarse facial features, and broad hands and feet. In children, excess GH secretion results in linear growth as well, but this is not seen in adults due to the fusion of the long bone epiphyses. Other pharmacologic options for the treatment of acromegaly include dopamine agonists such as cabergoline or GH-receptor antagonists such as pegvisomant.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Methimazole** - Methimazole inhibits thyroid hormone synthesis and can be used to treat thyrotropic adenomas of the pituitary. However, this patient does not have features of elevated thyroid hormone levels, such as weight loss and diarrhea. Methimazole would not be of use in the treatment of acromegaly.

**C - Leuprolide** - Leuprolide is a GnRH agonist that has an antagonistic effect when given continuously and is used to treat prostate cancer, endometriosis, and precocious puberty. It would not be of use in the treatment of a pituitary tumor, as GnRH is released by the hypothalamus.

**D - Risperidone** - Risperidone is a dopamine antagonist used for the treatment of schizophrenia. Dopamine agonists, such as cabergoline, may be used as an adjunctive or second-line treatment for acromegaly but a dopamine antagonist would not be appropriate.

**E - Metyrapone** - Metyrapone inhibits cortisol synthesis and is used in the treatment of Cushing disease, which may be caused by an ACTH-producing pituitary tumor and could also cause weight gain and excessive sweating. However, this patient would be expected to have other features of Cushing disease, such as hirsutism, bruisable skin, and secondary hypertension. His coarse facial features are characteristic of acromegaly, which metyrapone is not used to treat.

