### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Pituitary apoplexy** - Pituitary apoplexy is often caused by hemorrhage into the pituitary gland. Intracerebral bleeding increases intracranial pressure, causing sudden, severe headache. The hematoma compresses the oculomotor nerves, which lie adjacent to the pituitary, causing acute onset of double vision. The disruption of pituitary secretion and release of ACTH can cause severe hypotension, as seen in this patient. Hemorrhage into the pituitary gland usually occurs into a previously existing pituitary adenoma (e.g., prolactinoma), which explains this patient's history of amenorrhea, recurrent headaches, and bitemporal hemianopsia.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Transient ischemic attack** - Although TIA manifests as a sudden onset of a focal neurological deficit (e.g., double vision) that lasts for < 24 hours and may be associated with headache, it would not explain the menstrual irregularities in this patient. In addition, TIAs would be unlikely in a woman of this age with no known risk factors (e.g., hypercholesterolemia, hypertension).

**C - Sheehan syndrome** - Sheehan syndrome occurs following postpartum hemorrhage but can also manifest as amenorrhea (due to decreased pituitary production of FSH and LH) several years after delivery in individuals with no prior history of postpartum hypopituitarism. However, it would not explain the sudden severe headache in this patient. Moreover, patients typically have a history of acute hypotension during pregnancy or delivery severe enough to cause pituitary ischemia and necrosis.

**D - Migraine with aura** - Migraine headaches can manifest with recurrent, severe, throbbing headaches. Visual auras of migraines typically involve flashes of light and blind spots; basilar migraines can cause double vision. However, a migraine would not explain this patient's amenorrhea or hypotension.

**E - Subarachnoid hemorrhage** - Subarachnoid hemorrhage manifests with sudden, severe headache (thunderclap headache) and hypotension that can be associated with visual disturbances. Spontaneous SAH occurs due to rupture of a previously asymptomatic berry aneurysm. In some cases, migraines and berry aneurysms may coexist. However, neither SAH nor berry aneurysms would explain this patient's history of amenorrhea and bitemporal hemianopia.

**F - Cluster headache** - Cluster headaches typically manifest with 15-minute bouts of intense unilateral headaches that may occur several times a day with months of pain-free intervals. Although cluster headaches can present with periorbital pain and lacrimation, this condition would not explain the visual disturbances, hypotension, or menstrual abnormalities seen in this patient.

