### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - ACE inhibitor therapy** - Early antihypertensive treatment is recommended in diabetic patients to prevent cardiovascular disease. The goal blood pressure is < 130/80. While all first-line antihypertensive agents are appropriate for adults with diabetes, in the presence of microalbuminuria (e.g., 1+ protein on urine dipstick), ACE inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers are the treatment of choice. These are the only antihypertensive agents that prevent the progression of microalbuminuria and renal tubulointerstitial fibrosis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Fibrates therapy** - Fibrates are a second-line therapy for the treatment of dyslipidemia and are particularly effective in lowering serum triglyceride levels. Because this patient's serum triglycerides are within the reference range, treatment with fibrates is not indicated. All patients with diabetes mellitus aged 40–75, such as this man, should receive lipid-lowering treatment with a statin regardless of baseline lipid levels, however, to reduce the risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.

**B - VEGF inhibitor injection** - Intravitreal vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitor injections are used to treat diabetic retinopathy and diabetic macular edema. These diabetic complications generally occur in the late stages of the disease; ∼ 25% of patients with type 2 diabetes develop diabetic retinopathy after 15 years of disease. This patient's blurred vision is most likely due to glucose fluctuations and resulting osmotic swelling of the lens, which is a classic early symptom of type 2 diabetes.

**C - Bariatric surgery** - Bariatric surgery is indicated in obese patients if the BMI ≥ 40 and weight loss attempts with dietary and lifestyle changes fail, or in patients with a BMI > 35 and obesity-related complications. Since weight loss or stabilization greatly improves the prognosis in patients with type 2 diabetes, dietary changes should be recommended to this patient; surgery is not indicated at this stage.

**D - Insulin therapy** - Insulin is indicated for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus that are refractory to monotherapy or dual-therapy with oral antidiabetic drugs (i.e., therapy does not sufficiently control blood glucose levels). However, this patient is not taking oral antidiabetic medications. The initial treatment of choice is metformin and not insulin therapy.

**F - Aspirin therapy** - Aspirin therapy is recommended as secondary prophylaxis in all patients with diabetes and preexisting cardiovascular disease (TIA, stroke, myocardial infarction, peripheral vascular disease) and as primary prophylaxis in all male patients with diabetes > 50 years of age with major cardiovascular risk factors. There is insufficient evidence to recommend aspirin in patients < 50 years; aspirin therapy is not indicated at this time.

**G - Low-carbohydrate diet** - Patients with diabetes should be encouraged to follow a balanced, high-fiber, cardioprotective diet (e.g., DASH diet). In addition, simple carbohydrates (e.g., glucose, sucrose) should be replaced with complex carbohydrates. A low carbohydrate diet is generally not recommended.

