### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - L-thyroxine therapy** - Radioactive iodine is only taken up by functioning thyroid tissue. Because the entire thyroid gland is hyperstimulated by thyrotropin-receptor antibodies in Graves disease, it will take up radioactive iodine and be destroyed. This effect often results in permanent hypothyroidism, which is easier to manage than Graves disease. Hypothyroidism usually develops within 3–6 months of RAI ablation and is treated with life-long L-thyroxine replacement therapy.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Near-total thyroidectomy** - Near-total thyroidectomy may be required if RAI ablation fails to destroy thyroid tissue, leading to a recurrence of hyperthyroidism. Failure rates of RAIA range from 10–40%. Most patients undergo a second trial of RAIA before a decision to perform a thyroid surgery is made. Thyroid surgery is more difficult after RAIA as the gland is usually fibrotic. However, a more common outcome occurs in patients with Graves disease following RAIA.

**B - Estrogen replacement therapy** - Estrogen is very effective in treating menopausal symptoms, especially hot flashes, which could explain this patient's heat intolerance, sweating. Anxiety and irritability are also common symptoms of menopause. Although this patient may require future estrogen therapy, she has just undergone RAI ablation of her thyroid gland and likely requires a more immediate long-term treatment.

**C - Potassium iodide therapy** - Potassium iodide (KI) rapidly decreases thyroid hormone release from the gland and prevents synthesis of new hormones. KI is useful when rapid control of hyperthyroidism is required (e.g., thyroid storm, severe thyrotoxicosis). After RAI ablation, preformed thyroid hormone is released into circulation, transiently worsening the hyperthyroidism. KI can be used to control postablation hyperthyroidism (esp. in patients with allergies to antithyroid drugs) in patients > 60 years of age or those with cardiac comorbidities. This woman has no features of cardiac disease and is < 60 years old. In addition, postablation hyperthyroidism is transient, meaning long-term KI therapy is unnecessary.

**D - Methimazole therapy** - After radioactive iodine ablation (RAIA), preformed thyroid hormone is released into circulation, transiently worsening the hyperthyroidism. In patients with severe hyperthyroidism (poorly controlled with medications, highly elevated thyroid hormone levels), cardiac comorbidities, and age > 60 years, methimazole should be given before and after RAIA to achieve a euthyroid status. This patient does not fit any of these criteria. In addition, as postablation hyperthyroidism is transient, long-term use of methimazole is unnecessary.

**E - Propranolol therapy** - Propranolol offers symptomatic relief from the adrenergic symptoms of hyperthyroidism (e.g., palpitations, heat intolerance, irritability). Propranolol may be given after RAI ablation to control the possible worsening of symptoms due to the release of preformed thyroid hormone into circulation, a common effect after RAIA. However, postablation hyperthyroidism is transient, meaning long-term propranolol therapy is unnecessary. In addition, propranolol is a nonselective beta blocker and is contraindicated in asthmatics because it can cause bronchoconstriction and precipitate an acute asthmatic attack.

