### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Desmopressin therapy** - Desmopressin therapy is the most appropriate treatment for patients with central diabetes insipidus. Combined with his laboratory results, this patient's polyuria, polydipsia, and nocturia indicate DI. The diagnosis is confirmed by his failure to concentrate urine after the water deprivation test, and successful concentration of urine after the trial of desmopressin.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Demeclocycline therapy** - Demeclocycline can be used to treat syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH). This drug inhibits the action of ADH, which causes decreased concentration of the urine. This patient's laboratory results show high serum osmolarity, which rules out SIADH. Increased ADH secretion leads to increased water reabsorption in the distal convoluted tubules and the collecting ducts of the kidneys, resulting in low serum osmolality and high urine osmolality.

**C - Hydrochlorothiazide therapy** - Hydrochlorothiazide is used to treat nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. In nephrogenic DI, dysfunction of the ADH receptors in the distal tubule and collecting ducts prevents ADH from exerting its normal function. Hydrochlorothiazide increases the concentration of electrolytes in the renal medulla, which in turn leads to increased water reabsorption into the renal interstitium by osmosis. From here, water can move back into the blood, leading to increased concentration of the urine, which treats DI. This patient's response to the ADH analog rules out nephrogenic DI.

**D - Tolvaptan therapy** - Tolvaptan causes selective water excretion in the urine by antagonizing ADH on the vasopressin 2 receptor. It is used in hyponatremic states caused by, e.g., SIADH. This patient is already excreting excess water in the urine, as his inability to concentrate the urine prior to receiving the ADH analog demonstrates.

**E - Amiloride therapy** - Amiloride is used to treat nephrogenic diabetes insipidus by blocking sodium reabsorption in the distal tubule and collecting ducts, which leads to more concentrated urine. This patient's response to the ADH analog rules out nephrogenic DI. A different drug is, therefore, more suitable.

**F - Fluid restriction** - Fluid restriction was already performed in this patient for diagnostic purposes. An inability to concentrate the urine after the water deprivation test confirms diabetes insipidus. Moreover, after administration of the ADH analog, urine osmolarity increased, indicating an ADH deficiency. Fluid restriction would not correct the problem in this patient who lacks ADH, the hormone responsible for the compensatory response to fluid deprivation.

