### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Escitalopram therapy** - Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as escitalopram are the first-line treatment for major depressive disorder (MDD) due to their efficacy and relatively limited side effect profile. Patients started on SSRIs may not see symptom reduction for 4–6 weeks after initiation of therapy. If no improvement is seen after this time, it is reasonable to increase the dose, switch therapy to another SSRI, or switch therapy to another drug class (SNRI, atypical antidepressants, or trazodone). TCAs and MAOIs are usually reserved as third- or fourth-line treatment for refractory MDD. Psychotherapy should also be initiated, as the combination of psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy is more efficacious than either one alone.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Reassurance** - Reassurance may be indicated if patients present with mild dysphoria and/or other depressive symptoms, but do not meet criteria for the diagnosis of major depressive disorder or another disorder. This patient clearly meets criteria for MDD, which requires treatment.

**C - Lithium therapy** - Lithium is a mood stabilizer that can be used for major depressive disorder with mixed features as well as for bipolar disorder. This patient does not exhibit any manic symptoms (i.e., DIG-FAST), so lithium would not be indicated.

**D - Phenelzine therapy** - Phenelzine is a nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) which is rarely used to treat major depressive disorder because of its serious side effects (hypertensive crisis if co-ingested with tyramine-containing foods, serotonin syndrome, and risk of fatal overdose). A safer and better-tolerated antidepressant would be preferred for this patient.

**E - Selegiline therapy** - Selegiline is a selective MAO-B inhibitor that can be administered via transdermal patch for the treatment of major depressive disorder. However, it is not used as first-line therapy because of its serious side effects (hypertensive crisis if co-ingested with tyramine-containing foods, serotonin syndrome, and risk of fatal overdose). A safer and better-tolerated antidepressant would be preferred for this patient.

**F - Diazepam therapy** - Diazepam is a benzodiazepine primarily used to treat anxiety or alcohol withdrawal, and would not be used as first-line treatment of depression. In this patient, the sedative effects of diazepam would worsen his symptoms of hypersomnia and psychomotor retardation.

**G - Amitriptyline therapy** - Amitriptyline is a tricyclic antidepressant and third-line agent for the treatment of major depressive disorder. It is not first-line because of its less favorable side effect profile (sedation, anticholinergic effects, and risk of fatal arrhythmia from overdose), although side effects remain rare. Though many patients take TCAs without experiencing adverse effects, these drugs would only be indicated if first- and second-line therapy fail.

**H - Risperidone therapy** - Risperidone is an atypical antipsychotic that is primarily used to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Although it can be used in conjunction with other medications as first-line treatment of depression with psychotic features, it would not be indicated in this patient since there is no evidence of psychosis.

