### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Exenatide** - Exenatide, which is a GLP-1 agonist, can cause weight loss and control hyperglycemia. Incretin-based therapeutic agents such as GLP-1 agonists also have the additional benefit of a low risk of medication-induced hypoglycemia. Besides metformin and GLP-1 agonists, other drugs that can be used for weight loss in diabetic patients include SGLT-2 inhibitors (e.g., dapagliflozin), orlistat and pramlintide. However, SGLT-2 inhibitors are contraindicated in patients with recurrent urinary tract infections, as is the case here. Also, orlistat does not cause glycemic control, which is desired in this patient, and pramlintide is only used in combination with insulin therapy.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Topiramate** - Topiramate has been shown to cause weight loss and slightly decrease HbA1c in a number of randomized control studies. However, topiramate monotherapy has not been approved by the FDA for treatment of weight loss and/or glycemic control.

**C - Pioglitazone** - Pioglitazone is a thiazolidinedione known to cause weight gain, both directly and due to fluid retention and edema, making this treatment inappropriate.

**D - Glyburide** - Glyburide is a sulfonylurea, which is known to cause weight gain. The need for weight loss in this patient makes this drug undesirable. Moreover, in patients older than 65 years, the use of sulfonylureas with biguanides such as metformin is associated with an increased risk of hypoglycemia.

**E - Acarbose** - Acarbose, an alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, is not associated with weight loss, and is therefore not indicated in the management of this patient.

**F - Dapagliflozin** - While dapagliflozin can be used for weight loss in diabetic patients, it is contraindicated in patients with recurrent urinary tract infections (as is the case here) because the glycosuric effect of SGLT-2 inhibitors creates a favorable environment for bacterial colonization of the urinary tract.

**G - Phentermine** - Phentermine is an appetite suppressant and can therefore cause weight loss. However, phentermine monotherapy is not used for management of diabetes mellitus because it does not control hyperglycemia.

**H - Saxagliptin** - Saxagliptin, a DPP-4 inhibitor, can be used as an adjunct to metformin in patients with poor glycemic control. However, it does not cause weight loss. Moreover, the glucose lowering capacity of DDP-4 inhibitors is not as good as some of the other classes of antidiabetic medications. Since this patient has a very high HbA1C of 9.5%, a drug that offers greater glycemic control is needed.

