### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - CT scan of the abdomen** - This patient presents with symptoms and laboratory findings consistent with ACTH-independent Cushing syndrome due to autonomous overproduction of cortisol by the adrenal gland. Once the Cushing's syndrome has been determined to be ACTH-independent, a thin-section CT or MRI of the adrenal glands should be performed to evaluate for adrenal mass. Common etiologies for excess adrenal cortisol production include adrenal adenoma, adrenal carcinoma, and adrenal hyperplasia.

Image File: 502-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a6770b1bdddb.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - CRH stimulation test** - CRH stimulation test can be used in patients with ACTH-dependent hypercortisolism to differentiate whether the source of excess ACTH production is pituitary (Cushing disease) or ectopic. If serum ACTH and cortisol levels increase further after CRH stimulation, Cushing disease is confirmed; minimal or no change in their levels suggests ectopic ACTH production. Since the patient presents with ACTH-independent hypercortisolism, this test would not be indicated.

**B - ACTH stimulation test** - ACTH stimulation test is used to test the response of the adrenal glands to ACTH in patients suspected of having adrenal insufficiency (e.g., hypocortisolism), such as Addison disease. Since this patient presents with hypercortisolism, this test would not be indicated.

**C - Low-dose dexamethasone suppression test** - A low-dose dexamethasone suppression test can be used in the initial screening for hypercortisolism. In normal individuals, dexamethasone suppresses ACTH secretion and thus decreases the level of cortisol. However, in this patient, the diagnosis of hypercortisolism using a 24–hour urine sample as well as a decreased ACTH level in serum has already been established, indicating an ACTH-independent Cushing syndrome. Therefore a low-dose dexamethasone suppression test would not be helpful in confirming the cause of his symptoms.

**D - Petrosal vein catheterization** - Petrosal vein catheterization is performed in patients with suspected ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma if brain MRI studies are unable to identify pituitary adenoma but clinical suspicion is still high. However, ACTH levels in secondary hypercortisolism would either be normal or elevated, as opposed to this patient's low ACTH levels.

**E - CT scan of the chest** - A chest CT would be helpful if small cell lung cancer, which can lead to paraneoplastic, ectopic ACTH production and subsequent secondary hypercortisolism, were suspected. However, ectopic ACTH production would present with normal or elevated ACTH levels, as opposed to this patient's low ACTH. Also, this patient lacks other symptoms of lung cancer, such as cough, hemoptysis, dyspnea, and chest pain.

**G - MRI of the brain** - MRI of the brain may be used to visualize pituitary masses in patients with suspected Cushing disease due to ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma (e.g., secondary hypercortisolism). However, ACTH levels in secondary hypercortisolism would either be normal or elevated, as opposed to this patient's low ACTH levels.

