### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Urine metanephrines** - Increased levels of catecholamine metabolites such as metanephrines in the urine or serum are diagnostic of pheochromocytoma, a catecholamine-secreting neuroendocrine tumor typically located in the adrenal medulla. Pheochromocytomas may be a sign of genetic syndromes such as MEN 2A and MEN 2B due to an autosomal dominant mutation of the RET gene.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Serum gastrin** - Increased levels of serum gastrin are seen in gastrinoma, a type of pancreatic or duodenal tumor often seen in MEN 1 syndrome. While this patient does have hyperparathyroidism, which is a feature of MEN 1 syndrome, his family history of thyroid cancer is suggestive of MEN 2A.

**B - Serum prolactin** - Increased levels of prolactin are seen in lactotrophic pituitary adenomas (prolactinomas). This is the most common type of pituitary adenoma in adults and in patients with MEN 1 syndrome. While this patient does have hyperparathyroidism, which is a feature of MEN 1, his family history of thyroid cancer is suggestive of MEN 2A.

**C - Serum aldosterone to renin ratio** - An increased serum aldosterone to renin ratio is seen in patients with primary hyperaldosteronism (Conn syndrome). Excess aldosterone production can result in constantly elevated blood pressure, fatigue, and muscle cramping due to electrolyte abnormalities, specifically hypokalemia, none of which are seen in this patient. Conn syndrome is not associated with MEN 2A.

**D - Midnight salivary cortisol** - Midnight salivary cortisol is a screening test for Cushing syndrome. This disorder classically presents with central obesity, moon facies, elevated serum glucose, and/or proximal muscle weakness, none of which are seen here. Cushing syndrome is not associated with MEN 2A.

**E - Urine 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid** - Increased levels of serotonin (5-HT) metabolites such as 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the urine are seen in carcinoid tumors, a type of neuroendocrine cancer that often develops in the gastrointestinal tract. A carcinoid tumor can lead to carcinoid syndrome if it metastasizes to the liver. Carcinoid syndrome classically manifests with watery diarrhea, episodic cutaneous flushing, and sweating, which are not seen in this patient. Carcinoid tumors are not associated with MEN 2A.

