### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Primary polydipsia** - This patient presents with a history of excessive thirst, intake of unusual amounts of water, polyuria, and hyponatremia, all of which are findings consistent with primary polydipsia (psychogenic polydipsia). The water deprivation test allows primary polydipsia to be differentiated from diabetes insipidus. Normal values of serum and urine osmolality after the water deprivation test indicate that both the release and effect of ADH are intact, ruling out diabetes insipidus and confirming the diagnosis of primary polydipsia.

Image File: 505-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d07bcd169b4d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cerebral salt wasting** - Cerebral salt wasting syndrome, which may occur in patients after neurosurgical procedures, is a poorly understood cause of hypovolemic, hypotonic hyponatremia. Patients with cerebral salt wasting syndrome may have low serum osmolality and (paradoxical) polyuria, as seen here. However, this patient lacks other important features of cerebral salt wasting such as hypovolemia (e.g., hypotension, tachycardia) and a history of an intracranial pathology.

**B - Central diabetes insipidus** - This patient has some typical features of central diabetes insipidus (DI), including polyuria and polydipsia. However, individuals with DI typically present with mild hypernatremia, high-normal serum osmolality, and low urine osmolality. In patients with DI, the water deprivation test would typically result in rising serum osmolality > 290 mOsmol/kg and no change in urine osmolality. Moreover, in the absence of nocturia, DI is very unlikely.

**C - Syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion** - This patient has some typical features of syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion (SIADH), including hyponatremia and decreased serum osmolality, and the condition can be caused by SSRIs such as citalopram. In patients with SIADH, increased activity of the antidiuretic hormone (ADH) decreases free water clearance, which results in low serum osmolality, as seen here, but urine osmolality is usually inappropriately high. Moreover, patients with SIADH do not present with polyuria or polydipsia, and serum osmolality does not reach normal values during water restriction, as seen in this patient.

**D - Diabetes mellitus** - This patient has some typical features of diabetes mellitus (DM), including polyuria and polydipsia. However, her serum glucose is normal and she is missing other important findings of DM such as fatigue, polyphagia, and weight changes. Moreover, patients with DM would not present with low serum osmolality reaching normal values during water restriction, as seen in this patient.

**E - Beer potomania** - Although hyponatremia is a typical finding in patients with beer potomania, this patient only drinks 1–2 cans of beer per day, which is not enough to cause this condition.

**G - Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus** - This patient has some typical features of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (DI), including polyuria and polydipsia. However, individuals with DI typically present with mild hypernatremia, high-normal serum osmolality, and low urine osmolality. In a patient with DI, the water deprivation test would typically result in rising serum osmolality > 290 mOsmol/kg and no change in urine osmolality. Moreover, in the absence of nocturia, DI is very unlikely.

