### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Sick euthyroid syndrome** - Sick euthyroid syndrome refers to abnormal thyroid hormone levels in critically ill patients who actually have intact thyroid function. A commonly seen pattern is low T3, with low-normal levels of T4 and TSH, as seen in this patient. While the exact underlying mechanism is not completely understood, increases in type 3 deiodinase and decreases in type 1 deiodinase occur; the net result is a decrease in T3 levels with normal T4 levels. Since the activity of type 2 deiodinase within the pituitary gland remains unaffected, conversion of T4 to T3 can occur within the pituitary gland. Therefore, stimulation of pituitary thyrotrophic cells often does not occur and TSH levels remain normal.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Medication toxicity** - Certain medications, including dopamine, dobutamine, propranolol, glucocorticoids, amiodarone, and heparin, can result in abnormal thyroid function tests by suppressing TSH secretion, decreasing the synthesis of TBG, altering the binding of thyroid hormones to TBG, impairing conversion of T4 to T3, and/or altering the amount of thyroid hormones released from the thyroid gland. This patient is not receiving any of the aforementioned medications.

**C - Fibrous thyroiditis** - Riedel's thyroiditis is a rare, inflammatory disease resulting in fibrosis of the thyroid. Patients generally present with rapidly enlarging, painless goiter, and are typically euthyroid (normal T3, T4, TSH). Patients with Riedel's thyroiditis may develop features of primary hypothyroidism (30% of cases), resulting in decreased T3 levels. However, T4 levels would also be decreased and TSH levels would be increased.

**D - Pituitary apoplexy** - Pituitary apoplexy, which refers to ischemia or infarction of the pituitary gland, is usually caused by severe hypotension or hemorrhage. It manifests as secondary hypothyroidism (decreased T3, T4, and TSH levels), which is not consistent with this patient's thyroid studies. Moreover, patients with pituitary apoplexy generally complain of severe headache and typically, visual field disturbances.

**E - Chronic autoimmune thyroiditis** - Chronic autoimmune thyroiditis (Hashimoto's thyroiditis), the most common cause of autoimmune thyroiditis, causes primary hypothyroidism (decreased T3, T4, and increased TSH) and symptoms of hypothyroidism (e.g., cold intolerance, fatigue), which is inconsistent with this case.

**F - De Quervain's thyroiditis** - De Quervain's thyroiditis, also called subacute thyroiditis, is an inflammatory disease of the thyroid gland, usually following viral upper respiratory tract infection. It can have both hyperthyroid and hypothyroid phases and is almost always characterized by anterior neck pain (from thyroid inflammation) and systemic symptoms (e.g., fever, malaise). This patient's thyroid studies are not consistent with either hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism and her history suggests an alternate etiology.

**G - Subclinical hypothyrodism** - Subclinical hypothyroidism refers to asymptomatic hypothyroidism (normal T4 and T3, mildly increased TSH). While this patient has a normal T4, the rest of her thyroid studies are not consistent with this diagnosis.

