### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - L-thyroxine** - The patient presents with classic signs of hypothyroidism: constipation, fatigue, bradycardia, hyporeflexia, and lower limb edema (which is usually myxedematous and non-pitting, but pitting edema can also occur due to excessive albumin in extracellular spaces). While the precise etiopathology is uncertain, it is assumed that the excess deposition of glycosaminoglycans, hyaluronic acid, and mucopolysaccharides in hypothyroidism causes myxedema. These characteristic depositions can subsequently cause compression of the carpal tunnel. With thyroid hormone replacement and return to a euthyroid state, symptoms should improve within weeks to months.

Image File: 512-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e8c835de6be5.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Methotrexate** - Methotrexate is an antimetabolite primarily used as a disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) for rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The precise pathophysiology of CTS due to RA is uncertain, but it is thought to be due to increased carpal tunnel pressure caused by inflammation and edema. Although patients with RA typically report joint pain (like the knee pain in this patient), the metacarpophalangeal, and proximal interphalangeal joints are more commonly involved. Furthermore, patients with RA typically report morning stiffness.

Image File: 512-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_509be9f3bf2a7.jpg

**C - Ibuprofen** - No definite recommendations for or against the treatment of CTS with NSAIDs exist. Furthermore, this patient shows signs of an underlying condition causing the CTS, which should be treated first.

**D - Surgical decompression** - In CTS surgical treatment is only indicated for patients with motor symptoms related to the injury of the median nerve or who do not respond to conservative treatment. This patient does not report motor symptoms or show thenar atrophy. She does show signs of an underlying condition causing the CTS, which should be treated conservatively first.

Image File: 512-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_56b9f4c1b680e.jpg

**E - Oral prednisone** - Steroid therapy (e.g., prednisone therapy) can be effective in patients who only experience mild to moderate symptoms of CTS. However, steroid therapy has not been studied in cases in which CTS developed secondary to an underlying condition. The underlying cause should be treated first. Furthermore, steroids are usually administered as an injection, while oral steroids are a second-line treatment for those who decline injection therapy.

