### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Oral glucose tolerance test** - An oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) is used to diagnose or rule out acromegaly in patients with elevated IGF-1 levels. In patients without acromegaly, an increase in blood glucose levels results in a physiologic suppression of growth hormone (GH) secretion. In patients with acromegaly, there is an ectopic production of GH, which does not respond to this regulatory mechanism. The absence of GH suppression to < 1 μg/L within two hours after an oral glucose load usually confirms the diagnosis of acromegaly. A follow-up MRI of the pituitary then typically confirms the localization and the size of the hormone-secreting pituitary adenoma responsible for > 95% of cases of acromegaly.

Image File: 514-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589ba7132cd0d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Random serum growth hormone measurement** - Random serum growth hormone (GH) measurement could detect an increase in GH levels in a patient with acromegaly. However, this test is not generally recommended because daily fluctuations in serum GH concentration limit its sensitivity.

**C - Transsphenoidal hypophysectomy** - Transsphenoidal hypophysectomy is the preferred method of treatment in patients with acromegaly caused by a hormone-secreting pituitary adenoma. This patient requires additional tests to confirm the diagnosis of acromegaly and the presence of the pituitary tumor before initiating treatment. In addition, he presents with signs of heart failure (shortness of breath, bilateral crackles on lung auscultation, ventricular dilation, and hypokinesis), so he is a poor surgical candidate.

**D - MRI of the brain** - An MRI of the brain is used in patients with acromegaly to confirm the presence of a hormone-secreting pituitary adenoma (the most common cause of acromegaly). However, a different test should be performed to assess autonomous growth hormone production and confirm the diagnosis of acromegaly before proceeding to imaging.

**E - Lanreotide therapy** - Lanreotide is a somatostatin analog that can be used in the treatment of acromegaly in patients with inoperable tumors or contraindications for surgery. Even though surgery may be contraindicated in this patient with heart failure, a different step is required to confirm acromegaly before proceeding to treatment.

**F - Pegvisomant therapy** - Pegvisomant is a growth hormone receptor antagonist that can be used in the treatment of acromegaly as an alternative to somatostatin analogs (e.g., octreotide) in patients with inoperable tumors or contraindications for surgery. Even though surgery may be contraindicated in this patient with heart failure, a different step is required to confirm acromegaly before proceeding to treatment.

