### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Adrenal tumor** - An androgen-secreting adrenocortical tumor (e.g., adrenocortical carcinoma) is the most likely cause of this patient's hyperandrogenism. DHEA-S is an androgen precursor that is produced by sulfation of DHEA in the adrenal cortex; the presence of DHEA-S in the plasma helps differentiate between adrenal and ovarian tumors in patients with hyperandrogenism. This patient's rapidly developing virilization also points towards androgen-producing tumors, because other disorders that manifest with hyperandrogenism, such as polycystic ovarian syndrome, present more insidiously.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Acromegaly** - Patients with acromegaly, which is typically caused by a somatroph pituitary adenoma, can develop a deepening of the voice (due to vocal cord thickening and paranasal sinus enlargement) and secondary amenorrhea (due to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism). However, virilization with elevations in testosterone and DHEA-S would not occur in acromegaly. Moreover, other features of acromegaly (e.g., headache, macroglossia, organomegaly, coarsening of facial features) and pituitary macroadenomas (e.g., headache, visual disturbance) are not seen here.

**C - Ovarian tumor** - Androgen-secreting ovarian tumors (e.g., Sertoli-Leydig cell tumors) can manifest with rapidly progressive features of hyperandrogenism. However, such tumors result in increased DHEA, but not in increased DHEA-S as seen here. Moreover, the absence of a palpable adnexal mass on bimanual pelvic examination further makes an ovarian tumor less likely.

**D - Nonclassic congenital adrenal hyperplasia** - Nonclassic congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), which is typically caused by a mild deficiency of 21β-hydroxylase, can manifest during adulthood with hirsutism, secondary amenorrhea, and increased DHEA-S levels. However, serum 17-hydroxyprogesterone levels are typically elevated in CAH, which is not the case here. Moreover, the symptoms of nonclassic CAH progress insidiously; the rapid onset and progression of virilization over 2 months suggest a different diagnosis.

**E - Cushing disease** - Cushing disease, an ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma, can manifest with features of hyperandrogenism (e.g., hirsutism, menstrual irregularities) due to ACTH-mediated stimulation of androgen secretion from the adrenal glands, and patients with aggressive Cushing disease can have rapidly progressive symptoms. However, other features of secondary hypercortisolism (e.g., hyperpigmentation, central obesity, easy bruising, proximal muscle weakness) and pituitary enlargement (e.g., headache, visual disturbance) are not seen here.

**F - Polycystic ovarian syndrome** - Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) can cause mild features of hyperandrogenism (e.g., hirsutism, androgenic alopecia) and secondary amenorrhea with increased DHEA and testosterone levels (due to the conversion of DHEA to testosterone in the ovary). Elevated DHEA-S levels are seen in 20–30% of women with PCOS; functional adrenal hyperandrogenism is thought to be the cause. However, severe virilization with clitoromegaly and voice deepening is uncommon in PCOS. Moreover, the symptoms of PCOS typically begin during adolescence or early adulthood and progress insidiously; the rapid onset and progression of virilization over 2 months suggest a different diagnosis.

