### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Pulmonic valve stenosis** - Pulmonic valve stenosis is a manifestation of carcinoid heart disease, a condition that eventually affects > 50% of patients with carcinoid syndrome. Carcinoid heart disease typically develops as a result of chronic exposure of the heart to serotonin from liver metastases. Serotonin enters the inferior vena cava and reaches the right side of the heart, where it induces valvular and myocardial fibrosis. This can lead to pulmonary valve stenosis, tricuspid insufficiency, and right-sided heart failure.

Image File: 517-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6086bff9b2fbe.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Proximal muscle wasting** - Proximal muscle wasting is classically seen in patients with Cushing syndrome, which can manifest with facial plethora and hypertension. However, this condition does not typically cause weight loss or diarrhea. In addition, this patient does not have the classic Cushingoid appearance (e.g., moon facies, truncal obesity, and buffalo hump), purplish skin striae, or easy bruising. Moreover, laboratory findings in Cushing syndrome include increased serum cortisol concentrations, not increased urine 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentration.

**B - Achlorhydria** - Achlorhydria is seen in patients with VIPoma, a condition that manifests with watery diarrhea, tea-colored stools, and hypokalemia. Although 20% of patients experience flushing symptoms, they typically do not have abdominal pain. Moreover, VIPoma is associated with increased serum concentrations of vasoactive intestinal peptide, not increased urine 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentration.

**C - Adrenal medullary mass** - Pheochromocytoma can manifest as an adrenal medullary mass and cause episodic hypertension, palpitations, tachycardia, and sweating as seen in this patient. However, this malignancy does not typically cause abdominal cramps or diarrhea. Moreover, laboratory changes associated with pheochromocytoma include increased urine concentrations of catecholamines and metanephrines, not 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid.

**D - Purple-red colored urine** - Purple-red colored urine is observed in patients with acute intermittent porphyria (AIP), which also manifests with abdominal cramps, diarrhea, and, during acute attacks, hypertension and tachycardia. In addition, alcohol can precipitate attacks of AIP. However, affected patients typically experience neurological symptoms (e.g., sensory and motor neuropathy, neuropsychiatric symptoms), which are absent in this case. Moreover, laboratory changes associated with AIP include increased serum and urine concentrations of porphobilinogen, delta-aminolevulinic acid, and porphyrins, not increased urine 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentration.

**E - Multiple peptic ulcers** - Multiple peptic ulcers can result from excessive gastrin secretion due to a gastrinoma, which in addition manifests with severe abdominal pain, diarrhea, and weight loss as seen in this case. However, this woman has episodic palpitations and facial flushing triggered by food and alcohol, which are not features of a gastrinoma. Moreover, gastrinoma is associated with increased serum concentrations of gastrin and chromogranin A, not increased urine 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentration.

