### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Lymphocytic infiltration on fine needle aspiration** - Diffuse lymphocytic infiltration next to germinal centers (i.e., sites of antibody-secreting plasma cells), Hurthle cells, and fibrotic tissue are characteristic findings of Hashimoto thyroiditis. In Hashimoto thyroiditis, T-lymphocytes are cytotoxic to thyroid epithelial cells and stimulate B lymphocytes to produce autoantibodies (e.g., anti-peroxidase and anti-thyroglobulin), which results in a progressive destruction of thyroid tissue and consequent hypothyroidism. In areas with adequate iodine intake, Hashimoto thyroiditis is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in children and adults. Lifelong oral administration of L-thyroxine (T4) is the treatment of choice.

Image File: 520-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_588f516098661.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate** - An increased ESR in a patient with goiter may indicate subacute thyroiditis, a mostly self-limiting transient inflammation of the thyroid gland that may follow a viral upper respiratory tract infection. Subacute thyroiditis most often occurs in women 30–50 years and presents with a painful, diffuse, and firm goiter, and a clinical course of hyperthyroidism, followed by hypothyroidism, and finally a return to euthyroidism over the span of several months. In a subtype, called subacute lymphocytic thyroiditis, the goiter is painless. While this child presents with a nontender cervical mass and hypothyroidism, in her age group the condition is extremely rare.

**B - Elevated serum calcitonin** - An elevated serum calcitonin is highly sensitive, but non-specific, for medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC). Children with MTC typically present with an asymptomatic solitary nodule or the condition becomes apparent when a family member is diagnosed with MTC in the context of multiple endocrine neoplasia 2. MTC in children is highly associated with MEN 2. While this patient has a nontender cervical mass, she has no history of hypertension and tachycardia caused by pheochromocytoma in MEN 2A or marfanoid habitus and multiple neuromas, which are typical findings in MEN 2B.

Image File: 520-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91a9a714.jpg

**D - Positive serum thyroid stimulating hormone receptor antibody** - Positive thyroid stimulating hormone receptor antibodies (TRAb) are most characteristic of Graves disease (> 90% of cases). While patients with Graves disease also present with goiter, they have hyperthyroidism, rather than hypothyroidism as seen in this patient.

**E - Psammoma bodies on fine needle aspiration** - Psammoma bodies are seen in a variety of malignancies, including papillary thyroid cancer, which is the most common pediatric thyroid malignancy. While this patient also has a nontender cervical mass, she lacks lymphadenopathy, dysphagia, dyspnea, or hoarseness, which would increase the likelihood of malignancy. Moreover, thyroid function studies (TSH, T3, and T4) and growth velocity are usually normal in pediatric patients with thyroid cancer, which suggests another diagnosis.

**F - Increased uptake on I-131 scan in a discrete 1-cm nodule** - Increased uptake on I-131 (i.e., radioactive iodine) scan in a discrete 1-cm nodule (i.e., a solitary, hot nodule) is characteristic of a toxic adenoma, which typically affects adults 30–50 years of age and causes hyperthyroidism, rather than hypothyroidism as seen in this patient. Toxic adenomas are uncommon in children and radionuclide scanning is rarely indicated in children with primary hypothyroidism.

Image File: 520-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91e98e5f.jpg

**G - Spindle cells, pleomorphic giant cells, and atypical mitoses on fine needle aspiration** - Spindle cells, pleomorphic giant cells, and atypical mitoses are characteristic of anaplastic thyroid cancer, which is the least common subtype of thyroid cancer in adults (accounting for 1–2% of cases) and is extremely rare in children. Additionally, anaplastic thyroid cancer would most likely present as a rapidly enlarging thyroid mass with neck pain, dysphagia, dyspnea, or hoarseness, none of which are seen in this patient.

**H - Low urine iodine levels** - Low urine iodine levels indicate iodine deficiency, which can lead to hypothyroidism. Children with hypothyroidism due to iodine deficiency typically have a goiter and symptoms such as lethargy, weight gain, and decreased growth velocity. While this patient presents with all of these features, with the introduction of iodized salt in the 1920's, iodine deficiency has become exceedingly rare in the US, making another finding much more likely.

