### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Pituitary ischemia** - The anterior pituitary gland receives its blood supply from a relatively low-pressure arterial system and is, therefore, vulnerable to ischemia and infarction. During pregnancy, hypertrophy of prolactin-producing regions increases the size of the pituitary gland, making it very prone to ischemia (e.g., from prolonged or severe postpartum bleeding). Depending on the extent of pituitary necrosis, one, several, or all pituitary hormones may be deficient, and symptoms vary accordingly. This patient has evidence of hypopituitarism due to Sheehan syndrome, as manifested by her prolactin deficiency (impaired lactation), central hypothyroidism (low T4, TSH), and secondary adrenal insufficiency (hypotension, hypoglycemia).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Postpartum thyroiditis** - Postpartum thyroiditis typically manifests with a period of transient thyrotoxicosis followed by hypothyroidism. While this patient's symptoms are likely due to hormonal imbalances, postpartum thyroiditis typically occurs 1–8 months after delivery and would not explain her hypoglycemia or impaired lactation.

**B - Lactotrophic adenoma** - Lactotrophic adenomas (i.e., prolactinomas) are the most common pituitary tumors. In rare cases, large prolactinomas can cause symptoms similar to those seen in this patient (e.g., hypoglycemia, hypotension). However, prolactinomas usually have a chronic, progressive course. Moreover, a prolactinoma would not explain this patient's decreased milk production. On the contrary, prolactinomas sometimes cause galactorrhea (due to excessive prolactin production).

**C - Adrenal hemorrhage** - Hemorrhage into the adrenal parenchyma can cause acute primary adrenal insufficiency, which could explain this patient's hemodynamic instability and hypoglycemia. However, adrenal dysfunction would not explain her hypothyroidism or impaired lactation.

**D - Hypothalamic infarction** - Hypothalamic infarction could explain this patient's symptoms but is very rare. This patient has no other signs consistent with stroke (e.g., cranial nerve palsy and/or unilateral numbness/weakness) and no known risk factors for stroke, making this diagnosis extremely unlikely. Furthermore, diabetes insipidus would be expected with a hypothalamic process as well and is not seen here as evidenced by the patient's low sodium level.

