### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Worsening exophthalmos** - In up to 40% of patients with Graves disease, ablation of thyroid tissue by radioiodine will cause the onset or exacerbation of Graves ophthalmopathy. The exact underlying mechanism is not understood, but it has been hypothesized to involve the release of thyroid autoantigens with epitopes similar to those of retro-orbital connective tissue antigens, and a TSH surge due to therapy-induced hypothyroidism. The TSH surge possibly induces the production of thyrocyte autoantigens and the proliferation of retro-orbital connective tissue (because retro-orbital preadipocytes in patients with Graves disease can express TSH receptors). The risk of radioiodine-induced ophthalmopathy is greatest among smokers. An exacerbation of Grave's ophthalmopathy can be prevented with glucocorticoid therapy for 6–12 weeks after radioiodine therapy.

Image File: 527-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5639fcbd71354.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Gonadal dysfunction** - Radioiodine therapy for well-differentiated thyroid cancer utilizes higher doses of I131 and is therefore associated with an increased risk of gonadal dysfunction. The dose of I131 that is used to treat Graves disease is typically not large enough to cause gonadal dysfunction.

**B - Hypoparathyroidism** - Hypoparathyroidism frequently occurs following thyroidectomy (which can also be used to treat Graves disease), but hypoparathyroidism following radioiodine therapy is quite rare.

**C - Radiation thyroiditis** - Radiation thyroiditis occurs in ≤ 1% of patients treated with radioiodine. A different complication is much more likely.

**D - Hepatotoxicity** - Thionamides (e.g., propylthiouracil, methimazole), which can be used to treat Graves disease, are frequently associated with hepatotoxicity (up to 30% of cases). With radioiodine therapy, however, the risk of hepatotoxicity is extremely low; only a handful of cases of radioiodine-induced hepatotoxicity have ever been reported.

**F - Agranulocytosis** - Agranulocytosis is a life-threatening complication associated with thionamide drugs (e.g., propylthiouracil, methimazole), which can be used to treat Graves disease. High doses of I131 such as those used to treat well-differentiated thyroid cancer can also rarely cause agranulocytosis as a result of bone marrow suppression. However, the dose of I131 used for radioiodine therapy in Graves disease is not large enough to cause bone marrow suppression.

**G - Vocal cord paralysis** - Vocal cord palsy due to recurrent laryngeal nerve damage frequently occurs following thyroidectomy (which can also be used to treat Graves disease), but vocal cord palsy following radioiodine therapy is extremely rare and has only been reported in a handful of cases to date.

**H - Thyroid carcinoma** - A few retrospective studies on cohorts of hyperthyroid patients have shown an increased relative risk of developing thyroid cancer following radioiodine therapy. The younger the patient at the time of receiving radioiodine therapy, the greater the patient's lifetime risk of developing thyroid carcinoma. However, the absolute risk of thyroid carcinoma remains quite low.

