### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Reassurance** - Mittelschmerz is a common, benign phenomenon in women of reproductive age that is caused by follicular enlargement or rupture of the follicular cyst during ovulation, which leads to the release of small amounts of intraperitoneal fluid and subsequent peritoneal irritation. The pain is self-limited and usually subsides within hours to two days. Patients should be reassured and receive symptomatic treatment with NSAIDs as needed.

Image File: 528-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d78f8fd6a162.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Progestin-only contraceptive pill** - Progestin-only contraceptive pills are commonly used in patients with endometriosis who have mild to moderate pelvic pain with no complications. The pelvic pain in endometriosis can also occur between menstrual periods but typically worsens during menses and not midcycle as in this patient. In addition, patients often have associated symptoms such as heavy menstrual bleeding or dyspareunia, which are absent in this girl.

**B - CT scan of the pelvis** - A CT scan of the pelvis can be considered in patients with pelvic pain and abnormal findings (e.g., tenderness to palpation) if the diagnosis remains uncertain after laboratory evaluation and other imaging modalities are unavailable or inconclusive. This is, however, not the case in this patient. Furthermore, due to the radiation exposure associated with a CT scan, it is not the preferred imaging method for evaluation of a young patient's reproductive organs.

**C - Diagnostic laparoscopy** - Diagnostic laparoscopy is indicated in patients with acute pelvic pain, if the diagnosis cannot be established with less invasive methods or if a surgical condition (e.g., appendicitis, ovarian torsion) is suspected. This patient has episodic pain and a normal abdominal and pelvic exam. Therefore, invasive diagnostic methods are not warranted at this time.

**E - Nucleic acid amplification testing** - Nucleic acid amplification testing for infection with N. gonorrhoeae or C. trachomatis is recommended annually for sexually active women and can be repeated in patients with pelvic pain and normal screening results if there is clinical suspicion of a sexually transmitted infection. Although this patient has a history of unprotected sex, she had a negative STI screening test 6 months ago, and she has no clinical signs of an active infection such as vaginal discharge or cervical motion tenderness. Regardless, she should be counseled on safe sex practices.

**F - Combined oral contraceptive pill** - Combined oral contraceptive pills can be used in the management of a variety of gynecological conditions such as primary dysmenorrhea. Although primary dysmenorrhea also commonly presents with episodic pelvic pain in adolescent women with a normal physical examination, the pain typically occurs immediately before or at the onset of the menstrual period, rather than midcycle as in this patient.

**G - Pelvic ultrasonography** - Pelvic ultrasonography should be performed in postmenarchal adolescents with pelvic pain and adnexal mass or tenderness on examination to evaluate for ovarian cysts, ovarian torsion, and gynecological neoplasms. Although this patient complains of pelvic pain, her examination shows no abnormalities. Imaging is, therefore, not indicated at this time.

