### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Reassurance and recommend avoidance of nipple stimulation** - Given this patient's presentation and normal prolactin, she most likely has physiological nipple discharge due to nipple stimulation, a rather common condition in women of reproductive age. The discharge is normally milky but can appear greenish or yellowish. Reassurance and having the patient avoid nipple stimulation would be the recommended intervention.

Image File: 530-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58ecaf6f0b19c.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Galactography of both breasts** - Galactography is indicated for the evaluation of nipple discharge associated with ductal anomalies (e.g., intraductal papilloma), which are generally associated with unilateral discharge. This patient's bilateral nipple discharge suggests a systemic or physiological etiology for which galactography is not suitable.

**B - Mammogram of both breasts** - A mammogram is indicated in patient > 30 years old with unilateral nipple discharge for evaluation of possible breast lesions. Despite her family history, this patient is under 30 years old and also has bilateral nipple discharge, which suggests a different etiology.

**C - MRI of the head** - MRI of the head can be used to diagnosis pituitary adenomas, including prolactinomas. Although these tumors could lead to bilateral nipple discharge, patients with prolactinomas would have elevated prolactin and low FSH and LH levels leading to irregular menses. Additionally, although rare, some cases of larger prolactinomas causing mass effect may lead to headaches and hemianopsia.

**D - Nipple discharge cytology** - Although cytology may identify malignancy in some patients with nipple discharge, this is not a cost-effective intervention for the evaluation of nipple discharge and is therefore not routinely recommended. Additionally, this patient has bilateral nipple discharge, which suggests a nonmalignant etiology.

**E - Ultrasound of both breasts** - Ultrasound is indicated in patients < 30 years old with unilateral nipple discharge for the evaluation of possible breast lesions (e.g., ductal disease). Despite her age, this patient has bilateral nipple discharge, which suggests a different etiology.

