### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Multiparity** - A history of pregnancy is the greatest risk factor for pelvic organ prolapse (POP) and is estimated to account for ∼ 75% of cases. The risk increases in multiparous women. POP is caused by weakness of the pelvic floor muscles (levator ani) and ligamentous supportive structure of the uterus and vagina. During childbirth, injury to the levator ani, ligaments, and/or local nerves (e.g., the pudendal nerve) can result in weakening of the pelvic floor, predisposing to POP.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Age** - Advancing age is associated with a progressive increase in the rate of pelvic organ prolapse (POP) because age-related changes (e.g., connective tissue degeneration, muscle weakness) result in weakness of the pelvic floor. Age is not, however, the greatest risk factor for POP.

**C - Obesity** - Although obesity increases the risk for pelvic organ prolapse because of an increase in intraabdominal pressure, which strains the pelvic floor, it is not the greatest risk factor for this condition.

**D - Prior uterine surgery** - Although uterine surgery can result in injury to pelvic support structures and increase the risk for pelvic organ collapse, it is not the greatest risk factor for this condition. In addition, this patient underwent a uterine myomectomy, in which the risk of pelvic floor injury is relatively low compared to hysterectomy.

**E - Menopause** - Menopause, which results in decreased estrogen levels, is associated with pelvic organ prolapse (POP). Low estrogen levels can contribute to a decrease in the collagen composition of the ligamentous supportive structure of the uterus and vagina, resulting in weakening of the pelvic floor. Menopause is not, however, the greatest risk factor for POP.

