### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Imperforate hymen** - Imperforate hymen manifests with primary amenorrhea, cyclical abdominal and pelvic pain every month, and otherwise normal secondary sexual characteristics. As is the case here, patients with an imperforate hymen are asymptomatic until menarche, when the obstructed outflow of menstrual blood distends the vaginal tract and uterus and causes periodic pelvic pain. This invisible menstruation is known as cryptomenorrhea. Hematocolpos is seen on pelvic examination as a bulging, bluish mass at the vaginal introitus.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Labial adhesions** - Labial adhesions manifest with a thin, vertical midline fold in the perineum due to adhesions between the labia minora. This condition does not cause a mass at the vaginal introitus and is typically asymptomatic. Additionally, this condition usually affects infants and young children (peak incidence of 2 years of age) and spontaneously resolves around the time of puberty, when increased circulating levels of estrogen thicken the labia. Patients with labial adhesions typically do not have primary amenorrhea.

**B - Androgen insensitivity** - Androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS) manifests with primary amenorrhea in patients with normal breast development and female external genitalia. However, in contrast to this patient, individuals with AIS have very sparse or absent pubic hair. Pelvic examination shows a blind-ending vaginal pouch rather than a mass at the vaginal introitus. Cryptorchid testes may be palpable as bilateral masses in the abdominal or inguinal region. AIS does not cause cyclical abdominal or pelvic pain.

**C - Endometriosis** - Endometriosis causes cyclical abdominal and pelvic pain, which is seen in this patient, but does not manifest with primary amenorrhea or a bulging, bluish mass within the vaginal introitus. Additionally, this condition typically manifests in women who are 25–35 years of age and is unlikely to develop in an adolescent patient.

**D - Ectopic pregnancy** - Ectopic pregnancy can cause pelvic pain, but the pain is usually acute, nonrecurring, and develops in a postmenarchal patient after 4–6 weeks of amenorrhea (secondary amenorrhea). This patient, who has primary amenorrhea, has had recurring symptoms for 9 months. Moreover, while ectopic pregnancy can lead to an enlarged uterus or an adnexal mass, it would not manifest as a mass within the vaginal introitus.

**F - Müllerian agenesis** - Müllerian agenesis (MA) manifests as primary amenorrhea in patients with normal secondary sexual characteristics. This condition causes vaginal agenesis; pelvic examination typically shows normal external genitalia and a vaginal dimple (small vaginal pouch) rather than a mass at the vaginal introitus. In almost all cases, individuals with MA also have uterine agenesis or underdevelopment and thus do not menstruate. Rarely, these individuals have a rudimentary uterus and can develop cyclic abdominal and pelvic pain due to menstruation. However, because the menstrual blood cannot pass into the lower vagina, a mass would not be present at the vaginal introitus.

