### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Surgical incision and drainage** - Small, uncomplicated breast abscesses with intact skin are treated with antibiotics and fine-needle aspiration. Surgical incision and drainage is the treatment of choice for breast abscesses that are complicated by overlying skin necrosis or those that fail to respond to less invasive treatment attempts, as seen here. Thereafter, patients are treated with an empiric antibiotic (e.g., cephalexin or dicloxacillin for 10–14 days) while an abscess culture is pending. Patients who do not improve with cephalexin may require a course of second-line antibiotics (e.g., clindamycin or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole). Risk factors for breast abscess formation as a complication of mastitis include breastfeeding, advanced age (> 30 years), primiparity, and positive smoking history.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Gentamicin therapy** - Gentamicin is typically used to treat gram-negative bacterial infections. This patient, however, developed a breast abscess as a complication of her lactational mastitis, which is most likely due to an infection with Staphylococcus aureus, a gram-positive bacterium, against which gentamicin is not effective.

**B - Manual massage and warm compress application** - Manual massage and warm compress application can be used by patients with milk duct obstruction, which can develop after abrupt cessation of breastfeeding. While an obstructed milk duct can manifest with a tender breast mass, it would not explain this patient's local erythema, skin necrosis, or systemic symptoms (e.g., fever, tachycardia). Manual massage and warm compress application have no role in the treatment of a breast abscess.

**D - Reassurance and continued breastfeeding** - Continued breastfeeding and symptomatic treatment (e.g., cold compresses, analgesics) is the first step in the management of uncomplicated lactational mastitis. Because this patient developed a breast abscess as a complication of lactational mastitis, a different intervention is required at this time.

**E - Ultrasound-guided needle aspiration** - Ultrasound-guided needle aspiration is the recommended treatment for breast abscesses with intact overlying skin. This patient, however, developed skin necrosis, which requires a different intervention.

