### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Reassurance and outpatient follow-up** - Reassurance, analgesia, rest, and outpatient follow-up are the most appropriate next steps in management in an otherwise healthy woman with an uncomplicated ruptured ovarian cyst. Ruptured ovarian cysts are very common and often asymptomatic, but localized pain can occur due to the irritant effect of blood in the rectouterine pouch. Physical activity, such as sexual intercourse, is a risk factor for ovarian cyst rupture. Inpatient management is indicated if a patient is clinically unstable (e.g., has hemodynamic instability, heavy or ongoing hemorrhage, or infection) or if ultrasonography shows signs of a ruptured mature teratoma (e.g., sebaceous material in the peritoneal cavity) or malignancy (e.g., irregular septae).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Elective oophorectomy** - Bilateral elective oophorectomy is usually performed in combination with hysterectomy for benign uterine disease to reduce the risk of ovarian cancer and breast cancer. In contrast to risk-reducing oophorectomy for hereditary ovarian cancer or oophorectomy for the diagnosis and treatment of a suspected malignant adnexal mass, elective oophorectomy is not performed based on a hard indication. This patient has no family history of ovarian cancer and most likely has an average risk for developing this malignancy. Elective oophorectomy is not used to manage an uncomplicated ruptured ovarian cyst.

**B - Transvaginal biopsy of the adnexal mass** - Transvaginal biopsy is not typically recommended for the evaluation of an adnexal mass. If histopathologic examination of an adnexal mass is indicated, surgical excision is preferred because it allows the mass to be kept intact and reduces the risk of tumor seeding. Moreover, this patient has no findings concerning for malignancy (e.g., irregular septae on ultrasonography).

**D - Ceftriaxone, doxycycline, and metronidazole therapy** - Antibiotic therapy with ceftriaxone, doxycycline, and metronidazole is indicated in patients with pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). PID commonly manifests with adnexal tenderness on examination, free intraperitoneal fluid on ultrasonography, and lower abdominal pain that worsens during sexual intercourse. However, this patient had a sudden onset of symptoms and has no fever, cervical or uterine tenderness, or cervical discharge, making a diagnosis of PID unlikely. In addition, she has no known risk factors for PID (e.g., multiple sexual partners). Antibiotic therapy is not used to manage an uncomplicated ruptured ovarian cyst.

**E - Explorative laparoscopy** - Explorative laparoscopy is indicated in patients with ovarian cyst rupture who are hemodynamically unstable or if malignancy or mature teratoma is suspected. Other indications for explorative laparoscopy include ectopic pregnancy and appendicitis, which also commonly manifest with lower abdominal quadrant pain. However, this patient is hemodynamically stable, is not pregnant (negative β-hCG test), and has no findings concerning for malignancy (e.g., irregular septae on ultrasonography), ruptured mature teratoma (e.g., presence of sebaceous material in the peritoneal cavity), or appendicitis (e.g., leukocytosis, rebound tenderness).

