### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Antidepressant discontinuation syndrome** - Abrupt cessation of antidepressant drugs without appropriate tapering, as seen here, can lead to adverse effects in as few as 1–4 days. This patient's presentation (i.e., headache, depressed mood, fatigue, insomnia, nausea, sensory disturbances, irritability, ataxia, tremor, and myalgia) is consistent with antidepressant discontinuation syndrome (ADS), a known side effect of sudden discontinuation of SSRIs. Paroxetine, in particular, is associated with an increased risk of ADS. Treatment consists of restarting antidepressant therapy at the original dose before beginning to taper slowly for at least 2–4 weeks. The main clinical features of antidepressant discontinuation syndrome can be remembered with the mnemonic FINISH: Flu-like symptoms, Insomnia, Nausea, Instability, Sensory disturbances, and Hyperarousal.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Serotonin syndrome** - Symptoms of serotonin syndrome, which can be associated with SSRIs (e.g., paroxetine), include tremor, nausea, and ataxia, as seen in this patient. However, serotonin syndrome classically manifests with a triad of neuromuscular excitability (e.g., myoclonus, hyperreflexia), autonomic dysfunction (e.g., tachycardia, hypertension, diaphoresis, hyperthermia, mydriasis), and altered mental status, none of which are present here. Moreover, this condition occurs in patients on ≥ 2 serotonergic drugs or those who switch from one serotonergic drug to another without prior tapering. This patient recently discontinued paroxetine without starting another serotonergic agent, essentially excluding this diagnosis.

**C - Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy** - Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), which can present with gait instability and behavioral changes, as seen here, almost exclusively develops in patients with severe immunosuppression. Treatment with natalizumab, the drug this patient has been using for multiple sclerosis, is a risk factor for PML. However, PML is associated with focal neurological deficits (e.g., hemiparesis, aphasia, visual field deficits), seizures, and altered mental status; none of which are present in this patient. An MRI would show asymmetric, patchy, non-enhancing, multifocal white matter lesions without mass effect. This patient's MRI findings are more consistent with her previously diagnosed multiple sclerosis.

**D - Major depression relapse** - This patient with a history of major depressive disorder (MDD) presents with depressed mood, flat affect, fatigue, and insomnia shortly after cessation of antidepressant therapy with paroxetine, which might raise concern for an MDD relapse. However, she has only been experiencing these symptoms for 4 days, whereas the diagnosis of a major depressive episode requires the presence of ≥ 5 typical symptoms for at least 2 weeks. Moreover, symptoms occurring 3 days after discontinuation of treatment are very unlikely to be due to MDD relapse. Finally, this patient presents with neurological manifestations (tremor, ataxia), which are not associated with MDD.

**E - Multiple sclerosis relapse** - This patient with a history of multiple sclerosis (MS) presents with a change in mental state (i.e., depressed mood), gait instability, and unusual electric shock-like sensations on her skin (potentially Lhermitte sign) shortly after cessation of natalizumab, raising concern of an MS relapse. However, she lacks additional symptoms of MS exacerbation, such as visual changes, motor weakness, and autonomic dysfunction (e.g., bladder disorder). Moreover, the absence of new periventricular white matter lesions on MRI makes an MS relapse unlikely. Finally, studies have shown that the time to clinical relapse after cessation of natalizumab is about 3–5 months (consistent with its natural course of elimination), not a couple of days.

**F - Bipolar disorder** - This patient with major depressive disorder (MDD) presents with a 4-day history of irritability and insomnia, raising concern for a hypomanic episode with underlying bipolar II disorder. However, fatigue, a flat affect, and depressed mood, as seen here, would not be expected during a hypomanic episode; in contrast, symptoms such as increased goal-directed activity, psychomotor agitation, and talkativeness, as well as heightened self-esteem, are needed to fulfill the diagnostic criteria. Moreover, this patient presents with neurological symptoms (tremor, ataxia), which are not associated with bipolar disorders.

