### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Granulosa cell luteinization** - Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) is a potentially life-threatening complication of infertility therapy with exogenous gonadotropin. The ovulatory dose of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is thought to induce massive luteinization of the ovarian granulosa cells, which then release a number of vasoactive mediators, most importantly vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). VEGF increases the capillary permeability and leads to third spacing, which can manifest with enlargement of the ovaries, ascites, and weight gain. Mild to moderate OHSS, as seen here, typically develops 3–7 days after the administration of the ovulatory dose of hCG. Severe OHSS usually has a later onset and can lead to pleural effusion, acute kidney injury, thromboembolism, and sepsis.

Mild to moderate OHSS can be managed on an outpatient basis, with limited physical activity, hydration (1–2 L/day), acetaminophen, and daily monitoring of body weight and urine output. Severe OHSS requires hospitalization and a multidisciplinary management approach.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - Ovarian cyst rupture** - Ovarian cyst rupture can manifest with abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and free pelvic fluid on TUS. However, weight gain, leukocytosis, and hemoconcentration are not typical of ovarian cyst rupture. Furthermore, the symptoms usually have a sudden onset following sexual intercourse or strenuous physical activity, and the abdominal pain is usually limited to one of the lower quadrants, which is inconsistent with this patient's 5-day history of diffuse abdominal pain. In addition, TUS in a patient with ovarian cyst rupture is more likely to show a unilateral ovarian cyst rather than the bilateral ovarian enlargement seen here.

**C - Ovarian pedicle torsion** - Ovarian pedicle torsion (i.e., ovarian torsion) can manifest with abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and free pelvic fluid on TUS. However, weight gain, leukocytosis, and hemoconcentration are not typical symptoms. Furthermore, TUS typically shows a unilateral adnexal mass, which is inconsistent with the bilateral ovarian enlargement seen here. Although ovarian enlargement increases the risk of developing ovarian torsion, this patient's clinical findings are inconsistent with this diagnosis.

**D - Extrauterine oocyst implantation** - Extrauterine oocyst implantation leads to ectopic pregnancy, which can also manifest with abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and free pelvic fluid on TUS. Women receiving infertility treatment are at an increased risk for ectopic pregnancy. However, leukocytosis and hemoconcentration are not expected in ectopic pregnancy and TUS usually shows a unilateral adnexal mass rather than the bilateral ovarian enlargement seen here. Moreover, most individuals develop symptoms at least 6 weeks after their last menstrual period; this woman received an ovulatory dose of hCG only 10 days ago.

**E - Bacterial infection** - Bacterial infection (e.g., with Chlamydia trachomatis or Neisseria gonorrhoeae) can lead to pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). PID can manifest with abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, leukocytosis, enlarged adnexa, and free pelvic fluid on TUS. However, weight gain is not expected in PID. Furthermore, this patient does not have other common symptoms of PID, such as fever, urinary symptoms, vaginal discharge, and cervical motion tenderness.

