### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Progesterone withdrawal test** - A progesterone withdrawal test is recommended for patients with secondary amenorrhea who are not pregnant and have normal levels of hypothalamic-pituitary hormones (i.e., prolactin, FSH, and TSH). Progesterone is administered for 10 days, after which the patient is observed for withdrawal bleeding. Progesterone withdrawal bleeding confirms that the patient has normal estrogen levels and that anovulation is the cause of secondary amenorrhea. The absence of withdrawal bleeding suggests hypoestrogenism (due to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism or primary ovarian failure) or uterine obstruction. In such cases, a combined estrogen and progesterone challenge should be performed. Following this combined test, withdrawal bleeding suggests hypoestrogenism, and the absence of bleeding suggests the presence of uterine outflow obstruction (e.g., due to Asherman syndrome). In such cases, a hysteroscopy or hysterosalpingogram should be performed to confirm the diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral contraceptive therapy** - Oral contraceptive therapy can be used to replace estrogen and provide contraception in patients with premature ovarian failure (POF), which manifests with secondary amenorrhea. This patient's normal levels of FSH, however, exclude POF.

Oral contraceptive therapy can also be used in the management of menstrual abnormalities in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Although PCOS also manifests with secondary amenorrhea and can not yet be excluded in this patient, additional diagnostic workup is required before initiating any treatment.

**C - Hysteroscopy** - Hysteroscopy can be performed in women with secondary amenorrhea and normal hypothalamic-pituitary hormones who are also at risk for intrauterine adhesions (e.g., due to history of uterine instrumentation). Intrauterine adhesions can disrupt normal endometrial growth and result in uterine outflow obstruction, with consequent amenorrhea. However, a different diagnostic test should be performed before considering hysteroscopy.

**D - Gonadotropin therapy** - Gonadotropin therapy is used to treat patients with impaired fertility due to anovulation (e.g., as a result of polycystic ovarian syndrome or premature ovarian failure). Although anovulation can not yet be excluded as the cause of this patient's amenorrhea, she has not reported a history of infertility or a wish to conceive in the future. Moreover, before initiating any treatment, additional workup is required to confirm the cause of this patient's amenorrhea.

**E - Dexamethasone suppression test** - A dexamethasone suppression test is used to diagnose Cushing syndrome, which can manifest with amenorrhea, obesity, and normal hypothalamic-pituitary hormones. However, the absence of other clinical features such as hypertension, abdominal striae, abnormal cutaneous fat deposit, hirsutism, and/or emotional lability makes this diagnosis unlikely.

**F - MRI of the brain** - MRI of the brain is indicated for patients with secondary amenorrhea and concurrent hyperprolactinemia to assess for the presence of a prolactinoma. This patient, however, has normal prolactin levels. A different step is more appropriate at this time.

