### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Perform colposcopy with endocervical and endometrial sampling** - Patients with high-risk findings on Pap smear such as atypical glandular cells, HSIL, and ASC-H should urgently undergo endocervical sampling and colposcopy (with a directed biopsy if suspicious changes are noted) to rule out cervical intraepithelial lesions or cervical adenocarcinoma-in-situ. In addition, endometrial sampling should be performed in patients with atypical glandular cells who are above the age of 35 years and/or have high risk factors for endometrial adenocarcinoma (e.g., unexplained vaginal bleeding, chronic anovulation).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Repeat cervical cytology at 12 months** - A repeat Pap smear at 12 months would have been indicated if the patient was between the ages of 21 and 24 years, and the Pap smear had shown only ASC-US or LSIL. For patients with atypical glandular cells on Pap smear, a different step is indicated.

**C - Perform a diagnostic loop electrosurgical excision** - An excisional procedure such as LEEP is an acceptable option for non-pregnant patients above the age of 24 years with HSIL on Pap smear. Although this patient is above the age of 25 years, the Pap smear has shown atypical glandular cells. In such a scenario, a different step should always be performed before an excisional procedure is considered. Moreover, the excisional procedure of choice for patients with atypical glandular cells is usually cold knife conization, not LEEP.

**D - Test for oncogenic human papillomavirus** - HPV testing may be performed for patients with ASC-US on Pap smear, but it is not recommended for patients with atypical glandular cells because the results of the HPV test would not alter the course of management.

**E - Perform colposcopy and cytology every 6 months for 2 years** - Pap smear and colposcopy every 6 months for up to 2 years would have been the next best step in a patient 21–24 years of age with HSIL (i.e., CIN II/III lesions) on Pap smear, which are not confirmed on colposcopy examination. Patients with atypical glandular cells on Pap smear should urgently undergo additional diagnostic tests to rule out carcinoma.

**F - Perform colposcopy with endocervical sampling** - Patients with atypical glandular cells on Pap smear should urgently undergo colposcopy with endocervical sampling to rule out cervical squamous intraepithelial lesions and cervical adenocarcinoma-in-situ. However, in a woman above the age of 35 years with atypical glandular cells on a Pap smear, an additional procedure should be performed.

