### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Copper intrauterine device** - A copper intrauterine device (IUD) is an appropriate contraceptive option for patients with contraindications for estrogen-based contraceptives. Besides a history of thromboembolism (e.g., deep vein thrombosis, which this patient has), contraindications for these hormonal contraceptives include pregnancy, lactation, hypertension (systolic ≥ 160 mm Hg or diastolic ≥ 100 mm Hg), migraine with aura, hepatic dysfunction (e.g., due to cirrhosis), hepatic neoplasm, breast cancer, estrogen-dependent neoplasms, and smoking in individuals > 35 years of age. Patients with any of these contraindications may use nonhormonal contraceptives (e.g., copper IUDs, barrier contraception), as well as progestin-only hormonal contraceptives (e.g., minipill, subdermal progestin implant, progestin IUD). This patient, who would like a reliable and uncomplicated contraceptive, may benefit most from a copper IUD, which is highly effective and appropriate for long-term use (up to 10 years).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Contraceptive patch** - A contraceptive patch is an estrogen- and progestin-containing transdermal patch and is contraindicated in patients with a history of DVT, which is seen here. Furthermore, a contraceptive patch needs to be replaced weekly. This patient has asked for an uncomplicated contraceptive method and may benefit from a more long-term option.

**B - Spermicidal foam** - Spermicidal foam can be used in patients with contraindications for estrogen-containing contraceptive methods. However, spermicidal foam is less effective when used as the sole contraceptive method rather than in combination with other contraception, and it must be applied before each instance of intercourse. Therefore, it is not the most appropriate choice for this patient who would like a reliable and uncomplicated contraceptive.

**C - Vaginal ring** - A vaginal ring is a hormonal contraceptive containing estrogen and progestin and is contraindicated in patients with a history of DVT, which is seen here. In addition, a vaginal ring needs to be removed every 3 weeks for 1 week. This patient has asked for an uncomplicated contraceptive method and may benefit from a more long-term option.

**D - Combined oral contraceptives** - Combined oral contraceptive pills (COCP) contain estrogen, which can promote clot formation, and are, therefore, contraindicated in this patient with a history of DVT. In addition, COCPs need to be taken regularly. This patient has asked for an uncomplicated contraceptive method and may benefit from a more long-term option.

**E - Fertility awareness-based methods** - Fertility awareness-based (FAB) methods can be used in patients with contraindications for estrogen-containing contraceptive methods, such as DVT, which is seen here. However, FAB methods have a high risk (25%) of pregnancy and require monitoring throughout the menstrual cycle. Therefore, these methods are less appropriate for this patient, who would like a reliable and uncomplicated contraceptive.

