### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Tubal scarring** - Infertility that occurs following PID is a result of tubal scarring (due to salpingitis) with consequent loss of ciliary action and tubal occlusion and/or a tubo-ovarian abscess. The risk of infertility increases with the number of episodes of PID and is around 12%, 25%, and 50% after one, two, and three attacks of PID, respectively. This patient would need further testing to evaluate her fallopian tubes and the degree of damage to them (e.g., hysterosalpingogram). She may also require either surgery or in vitro fertilization to become fertile again.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Polycystic ovary syndrome** - Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) most often presents with hyperandrogenism, ovulatory dysfunction (i.e., amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea), and obesity. Though this patient is obese (BMI 30.8 kg/m2), she has regular menstrual cycles and no clinical features of hyperandrogenism, such as hirsutism or acne. Therefore, it is very unlikely that she has PCOS.

Image File: 559-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_508c11f3e9ab3.jpg

**B - Long-term use of the oral contraceptive pill** - Long-term use of the oral contraceptive pill has no effect on fertility. Studies have shown that pregnancy rates following cessation of oral contraceptives, contraceptive implants, monthly contraceptive injections, copper IUDs, and/or levonorgestrel intrauterine systems (LNG-IUS) are similar to those reported following discontinuation of barrier methods or use of no contraceptive method.

**C - Endometriosis** - Endometriosis may be asymptomatic but commonly presents with dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, postcoital bleeding, nonspecific abdominal or pelvic pain, and infertility in women between 20–40 years of age. This patient does not have any of clinical features associated with endometriosis, making it an unlikely cause of her infertility.

**D - Primary ovarian insufficiency** - Primary ovarian insufficiency (POI) commonly presents as amenorrhea or irregular menstrual cycles. This condition can also present with symptoms of menopause, such as vaginal dryness, hot flashes, mood disturbances etc. This patient has regular menstrual cycles and does not display any symptoms of menopause, making POI an unlikely cause of her infertility.

**F - Cervical insufficiency** - Cervical insufficiency refers to the painless dilation and effacement of the cervix in a pregnant woman before she reaches term. Cervical insufficiency, which is associated with second-trimester pregnancy loss, is not related to infertility.

