### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Observation only** - Observation is the preferred management option for patients with a small (≤ 3 cm), asymptomatic Bartholin gland cyst. Warm compresses or sitz baths may be used to promote rupture and drainage of a cyst. Larger Bartholin gland cysts (> 3 cm) or symptomatic cysts with abscess formation should be managed with incision and drainage, followed by marsupialization or placement of a Word catheter. A biopsy of the mass should be performed if a patient has risk factors or features suggestive of malignancy (e.g., age > 40 years, history of labial malignancy, solid component within the cyst, no response to treatment).

Image File: 562-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5960c236efabd.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Biopsy of the mass** - Biopsy of a Bartholin gland cyst is indicated if features suggestive of malignancy are present, such as a solid component within the cyst, attachment to the surrounding tissue, cyst persistence or worsening despite treatment) or if the patient has risk factors for malignancy, such as age > 40 years or a history of labial malignancy. This patient currently has a small, asymptomatic Bartholin gland cyst with no risk factors for malignancy, making a different approach more appropriate at this time.

**C - Word catheter placement** - A Word catheter is placed after incision and drainage of a Bartholin gland abscess or a large (> 3 cm), symptomatic Bartholin gland cyst. The catheter is left in situ for several weeks to facilitate drainage and allow for reepithelialization. This patient is asymptomatic and has a small Bartholin gland cyst that is 2 cm in diameter, making another approach more appropriate.

**D - Surgical excision** - Surgical excision is the definitive treatment for Bartholin gland carcinoma or Bartholin cysts that do not resolve despite less invasive measures. This patient currently has a small, asymptomatic Bartholin gland cyst with no risk factors or features suggesting malignancy, making a different approach more appropriate at this time.

**E - Incision and drainage** - Incision and drainage are indicated in patients with a large Bartholin gland cyst (> 3 cm) or a Bartholin gland abscess. Symptoms of a Bartholin gland abscess typically include swelling and severe pain, which can make walking, sitting, or sexual intercourse intolerable. This patient is asymptomatic and has a small Bartholin gland cyst that is 2 cm in diameter, making another approach more appropriate.

