### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Recommend use of lubricants** - Vaginal dryness in breastfeeding women typically manifests with local discomfort, burning sensation, and/or dyspareunia. The high concentration of prolactin in women who are breastfeeding inhibits the release of gonadotropins and, thereby, the secretion of estrogen. In patients who present with postpartum dyspareunia due to vaginal dryness, as seen here, regular use of vaginal moisturizers and lubricants during sexual intercourse is recommended. If dyspareunia persists despite vaginal lubrication, low-dose topical estrogen may also be considered. Women who are treated with topical estrogen should be advised to monitor their milk supply, given the possibility of systemic absorption of estrogen and consequent inhibition of milk production.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Prescribe topical lidocaine** - Topical lidocaine may be considered in patients with vulvodynia, which can also result in dyspareunia. However, this woman does not report experiencing severe vulvar pain upon physical contact (the hallmark of vulvodynia) or during the pelvic examination. Finally, dryness of the vaginal mucosa, as evidenced during this patient's pelvic exam, suggests a different underlying etiology.

**C - Prescribe vaginal estrogen** - Topical vaginal estrogen is the first-line therapy for vaginal atrophy, which can manifest with dry vaginal mucosa and dyspareunia. However, vaginal atrophy most commonly develops during menopause, rather than in the postpartum period. This patient's presentation is more consistent with postpartum dyspareunia due to vaginal dryness, which is only treated with topical vaginal estrogen if the first-line therapy is ineffective.

**D - Refer to psychosexual therapist** - Psychosexual therapy is used in the management of psychological dyspareunia, which can develop in patients with sexual dysfunction (e.g., female sexual interest/arousal disorder), mood disorders (e.g., postpartum depression), or a history of severe psychological distress (e.g., traumatic birthing experience). This patient, however, has a good relationship with her husband, reports no problems with arousal, and has no signs or history of psychologic distress, all of which are inconsistent with psychological dyspareunia.

**E - Recommend pelvic floor physical therapy** - Pelvic floor physical therapy can be used to treat postpartum dyspareunia due to perineal trauma or vaginismus. This woman, however, has no signs/history of obstetric trauma or symptoms of vaginismus (e.g., involuntary vaginal muscle contraction during the pelvic exam). Her presentation is more consistent with postpartum dyspareunia due to vaginal dryness, which requires a different intervention.

