### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Normal grief** - This patient is experiencing normal grief following the death of his grandfather. His tearfulness and sadness when he talks about his grandfather are normal emotional responses following the death of a loved one. Hallucinations of the deceased individual can occur during grief and are not considered pathologic as long as other psychotic symptoms are not present. The boy's normal functioning in school and engagement with peers further suggest a normal grief response to an acute emotional stressor.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Brief psychotic disorder** - Brief psychotic disorder is marked by psychotic symptoms lasting between one day and one month and is triggered by a stressful situation. In the setting of bereavement, audiovisual hallucinations of the deceased are not considered pathologic. Furthermore, the boy's symptoms have lasted for two months, which places him outside of the timeframe for brief psychotic disorder.

**B - Adjustment disorder** - Adjustment disorder is a maladaptive response to a stressor that lasts for three to six months following resolution of the stressor. It is marked by inappropriate distress in relation to societal or cultural norms, as well as impaired functioning. Although the death of the boy's grandfather represents a stressor, he has not displayed symptoms of significant emotional distress or functional impairment.

**D - Schizophreniform disorder** - Schizophreniform disorder is characterized by periods of psychosis and declining function that last from one to six months. Although the boy has been having hallucinations of his deceased grandfather, these are not considered pathologic in the setting of bereavement. The patient does not display any other positive symptoms (delusions, illusions, disorganized speech) or negative symptoms of psychosis.

**E - Persistent complex bereavement** - Persistent complex bereavement disorder is a state of pathologic grieving that lasts for at least six to twelve months following the death of a close relation. It is marked by a significant yearning for the deceased and marked impairment of function in daily life and can be accompanied by hallucinations of the deceased. This child has only been grieving for two months and has been functioning normally at school.

**F - Major depressive disorder** - Major depressive disorder is a mood disorder marked by two weeks of depressed mood and at least five of the following symptoms: sleep disturbance, loss of interest, feelings of guilt or worthlessness, loss of energy, difficulty concentrating, appetite changes, psychomotor retardation, and suicidal ideation. Major depressive disorder often causes significant impairment of function in daily life. Although the patient is sad about the death of his grandfather, he does not display any of the diagnostic features of major depressive disorder and has had no impairment of function in his daily life.

