### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Diabetes mellitus** - Diabetes mellitus predisposes to vaginal yeast infections, since high levels of glucose provide the carbon needed for Candida overgrowth and infection. Moreover, diabetes mellitus results in immunodeficiency, which is also associated with an increased risk of persistent or recurrent yeast infection. Other risk factors that precipitate overgrowth of C. albicans are systemic antibiotic therapy and pregnancy, in which case high levels of estrogen favor overgrowth by Candida. Treatment of acute infection consists of topical azoles (e.g., miconazole, clotrimazole), topical nystatin, or a single dose of oral fluconazole. Maintaining normal blood sugar levels may help reduce the risk of recurrent or persistent infections in diabetic patients.

Image File: 570-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589ada6b59ec2.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Smoking history** - Smoking decreases the number of vaginal Lactobacillus species, has an antiestrogenic effect, and dysregulates immune function, making smokers more prone to bacterial vaginosis, which presents with a gray or milky vaginal discharge that has a fishy odor. Discharge in candidal vulvovaginitis, on the contrary, is usually white, crumbly, and odorless, as seen in this patient. Smoking has not been shown to be a risk factor for vaginal yeast infection, although it is one for oral candidiasis in immunocompromised patients (e.g., diabetics).

**B - Regular use of swimming pools** - While swimming pools do not predispose to Candida infection in general, there is a debate about whether wearing damp, tight-fitting bathing suits for an extended period of time might create an optimal environment for yeast and promote overgrowth. Another predisposing factor is much more significant in this patient.

**C - Frequent vaginal douching** - Frequent vaginal douching to cleanse the inside of the vagina and use of soaps with perfumes and irritating chemicals are risk factors for bacterial vaginosis because they disturb the normal vaginal microflora. Vaginal douching decreases the amount of lactic acid-producing lactobacilli, which leads to an increase in the pH balance. A pH higher than 4.5 is no longer acidic enough to prevent the proliferation of certain organisms, and contributes, e.g., to an increase in Gardnerella vaginalis.

Image File: 570-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589add1a4409a.jpg

**D - Unprotected sexual intercourse** - Unprotected sexual intercourse is a risk factor for several sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), such as trichomoniasis and chlamydia. However, Candida overgrowth is commonly precipitated by other factors.

**E - Intrauterine device** - Intrauterine devices (IUDs) may be associated with gynecologic infections and pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). However, the risk is very low, making another cause much more likely in this patient.

