### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Perform punch biopsy of the lesion** - In patients with clinical findings suggestive of Paget disease of the breast (PDB), a punch biopsy of the lesion should be performed, and the visualization of Paget cells on microscopy confirms the diagnosis. Patients with PDB should also undergo bilateral mammography to exclude associated abnormalities (e.g., masses, architectural distortions) and underlying or synchronous breast malignancies (e.g., ductal carcinoma in situ or invasive ductal carcinoma). The treatment for PDB can vary depending on these mammographic findings but always includes resection of the lesion and nipple-areolar complex.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Prescribe oral dicloxacillin** - Oral dicloxacillin therapy is indicated for the treatment of skin infections such as erysipelas, which manifests with a sharply demarcated erythematous lesion, similar to what is seen here. However, this patient does not have other common features of erysipelas (e.g., fever and a more acute onset), making this diagnosis less likely.

**B - Perform KOH test on skin scrapings** - KOH testing of skin scrapings is used in the diagnosis of dermatophyte infections, which can manifest with an itchy, erythematous, scaly lesion, similar to what is seen here. However, with time, lesions of dermatophyte infections typically develop into round plaques with central clearing and raised borders, which is not seen here. Moreover, an isolated lesion around the nipple is unlikely.

**C - Perform ultrasonography of the breast** - Imaging of the breast is indicated in patients with PDB to exclude associated abnormalities (e.g., masses, architectural distortions) and synchronous breast malignancies. However, in patients older than 30 years of age, like this one, bilateral mammography rather than ultrasonography of the breast is indicated. Ultrasonography of the breast is usually indicated as the initial imaging in patients younger than 30 years of age and/or to guide core biopsy of any associated abnormalities.

**E - Prescribe topical tacrolimus** - Topical calcineurin inhibitors (e.g., tacrolimus) can be used in the management of atopic nipple eczema, which manifests as an itchy, erythematous, scaly lesion around the nipple and areolar region, similar to what is seen here. However, this patient experienced no symptom relief with topical corticosteroid therapy (the mainstay of treatment for atopic eczema), making this diagnosis unlikely. This patient's worsening symptoms despite treatment with topical steroids should raise concern for PDB; a different step is more appropriate.

