### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Reassurance and follow-up** - A couple should be evaluated for infertility if they are unable to conceive after 12 months of unprotected sex in women < 35 years and 6 months in women ≥ 35 years of age. Other factors that warrant immediate evaluation of infertility include menstrual cycle abnormalities, endometriosis, history of uterine, tubal, or peritoneal disease, and suspected or known male partner infertility. This 32-year-old woman has regular menses, an unremarkable medical history, and no abnormalities on physical examination. Her husband has a history of successfully managed gonorrhea 10 years ago and shows no abnormalities on physical examination. They both appear to be healthy and have only been trying to conceive for 6 months, so they do not meet the criteria for infertility evaluation. At this time, the couple only requires reassurance and a follow-up in 6 months if the issue persists.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Clomiphene citrate challenge test** - A clomiphene citrate challenge test can be used for the diagnosis of diminished ovarian reserve (DOR) in patients with suspected infertility. This 32-year-old woman has regular menses, an unremarkable medical history, and no abnormalities on physical examination, so DOR is unlikely.

**B - Serum testosterone and FSH levels** - Serum testosterone and FSH levels can be measured as a part of the infertility workup in male individuals with suspected hypogonadism. Patients with hypogonadism typically present with sexual dysfunction, gynecomastia, and testicular atrophy, none of which are seen in the male partner.

Serum testosterone and FSH levels can also be measured in women with infertility if disorders such as polycystic ovary syndrome or diminished ovarian reserve are suspected. This female partner has regular menses, an unremarkable medical history, and no abnormalities on physical examination, so these conditions are unlikely. This couple has only been trying to conceive for 6 months, so a different step is more appropriate at this time.

**D - Semen analysis** - Semen analysis is the first diagnostic step in the evaluation of male infertility, which can develop in a patient with a history of gonorrhea. This patient's gonorrhea was successfully treated with ceftriaxone 10 years ago and is unlikely to be responsible for this couple's inability to conceive.

**E - Hysterosalpingography** - Hysterosalpingography can be performed as a part of the infertility workup in women with suspected impaired tubal patency (e.g., due to endometriosis or pelvic inflammatory disease), structural uterine abnormalities (e.g., septate uterus, submucous fibroids, intrauterine adhesions), or if other diagnostic tests did not reveal any abnormalities. This woman has regular menses, an unremarkable medical history, and no findings consistent with tubal or uterine abnormalities. Moreover, this couple has only been trying to conceive for 6 months, so a different step is more appropriate at this time.

**F - Antisperm antibody test** - An antisperm antibody test can be used in male individuals with suspected infertility to detect the presence of antisperm antibodies, which are believed to develop as a result of blood-testis barrier disruption (e.g., due to testicular trauma, infection). This patient has no history of testicular trauma, and his history of gonorrhea 10 years ago is unlikely to be responsible for this couple's inability to conceive.

