### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Condylomata acuminata** - Condylomata acuminata (anogenital warts) are caused by sexually transmitted human papillomavirus types 6 and 11 in most cases. The lesions typically manifest on the vulva, penis, or perianal region and are often exophytic and cauliflower-like, although they can also have a flat or pedunculated appearance. Condylomata acuminata are usually asymptomatic but may cause bleeding and be painful and/or pruritic. There are several treatment options, including local cytostatic treatment (e.g., 5-fluorouracil, trichloroacetic acid, podophyllin), immune response modifiers (e.g., imiquimod), cryotherapy, and, for more severe cases, curettage, laser surgery, and electrocoagulation. The rate of recurrence is high.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Molluscum contagiosum** - Molluscum contagiosum (MC) is a localized infection of the skin caused by the molluscum contagiosum virus. MC most commonly affects young children but can manifest in adults with nontender lesions in the genital region. However, the lesions of MC are typically discrete, pearly, dome-shaped, and smooth, with central umbilication; MC does not cause exophytic and cauliflower-like masses. Although giant lesions (> 15 mm) can develop in individuals who are immunocompromised, this patient has a negative HIV test.

Image File: 576-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e4a4f47cb9c6.jpg

**B - Squamous cell carcinoma** - Squamous cell carcinoma accounts for > 80% of cases of vulvar cancer. However, this condition typically manifests with ulcerating masses and leukoplakia, not exophytic and cauliflower-like masses.

Image File: 576-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_605cf387f341d.jpg

**C - Genital herpes** - Genital herpes is mainly caused by HSV-2 and can manifest with skin lesions in the anogenital region. However, the lesions of genital herpes are typically painful, erythematous papules and fluid-filled vesicles that ulcerate, not exophytic and cauliflower-like masses. Genital herpes also often results in painful lymphadenopathy in the groin area, which this patient does not have.

Image File: 576-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6093e0ace95a0.jpg

**E - Bowenoid papulosis** - Bowenoid papulosis is a rare, premalignant, focal epidermal dysplasia caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection (most commonly HPV type 16). This condition typically manifests as multiple, flat, red-brown pigmented papules on the external genitals, not exophytic and cauliflower-like masses.

**F - Condylomata lata** - Condylomata lata are painless skin lesions in the anogenital region that occur in secondary syphilis. However, condylomata lata are typically broad-based, smooth, papular erosions, not exophytic and cauliflower-like masses. Moreover, secondary syphilis typically causes generalized lymphadenopathy and constitutional symptoms (e.g., fever, fatigue), which this patient does not have.

Image File: 576-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9105bffd.jpg

**G - Lichen planus** - Lichen planus is a chronic inflammatory disease of unknown origin that classically manifests with pruritic, planar (flat-topped), polygonal, purple papules and plaques (the 6 P's) in individuals 30–60 years of age. This condition usually involves the extremities but may also affect the genitals. Although this patient's lesions are mildly pruritic, they do not have the classic morphologic features of lichen planus. Moreover, genital lichen planus typically leads to dyspareunia.

