### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Urethral diverticulum** - This patient has a urethral diverticulum, which most commonly develops in women 20–60 years of age and classically manifests with the triad of urinary incontinence (in particular, postvoid dripping), dysuria, and dyspareunia. Urethral diverticula can sometimes be identified on pelvic examination as an anterior vaginal wall mass, as seen in this patient. The pathogenesis is poorly understood, but urethral diverticula are usually acquired rather than congenital. Risk factors include a history of multiple vaginal deliveries, prior gynecologic surgery, recurrent infection of the periurethral glands, and pelvic trauma that involves the vagina, bladder, and/or urethra.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bartholin gland cyst** - A Bartholin gland cyst can result in mild dyspareunia and a palpable mass on pelvic examination. However, these cysts are not typically associated with urinary incontinence or dysuria. Moreover, they develop at the posterior vaginal introitus, not the anterior vaginal wall, and are usually tender to palpation.

**B - Anterior vaginal wall prolapse** - Anterior vaginal wall prolapse (e.g., due to a cystocele or urethrocele) can manifest with urinary incontinence and an anterior vaginal wall mass and is associated with multiparity and prior pelvic surgery. However, this condition causes stress urinary incontinence, not postvoid incontinence. In addition, anterior vaginal wall prolapse also typically causes a sensation of pelvic fullness, urinary frequency, and urgency, none of which is seen in this patient. Moreover, it is not associated with dyspareunia.

**C - Vesicovaginal fistula** - A vesicovaginal fistula can cause urinary incontinence and is associated with prior pelvic surgery. However, this condition typically results in continuous leakage of urine (not postvoid incontinence) and a history of recurrent urinary tract infections, which this patient does not have. In addition, a vesicovaginal fistula does not cause an anterior vaginal wall mass.

**D - Interstitial cystitis** - Interstitial cystitis can cause chronic bladder pain and dyspareunia. However, patients typically have suprapubic pain that is relieved by voiding and worsened by bladder filling. Additional findings of interstitial cystitis include urinary urgency and frequency and anterior vaginal wall and bladder base tenderness on pelvic examination, none of which are seen in this patient. Moreover, interstitial cystitis is associated with a history of prior urinary tract infections and other pain syndromes (e.g., fibromyalgia, irritable bowel syndrome), which this patient does not have.

**E - Paraurethral gland cyst** - A paraurethral gland cyst can cause dysuria, dyspareunia, and urinary incontinence. However, these cysts typically result in overflow incontinence, not postvoid incontinence. Moreover, pelvic examination typically shows masses located just lateral to the external urethral meatus rather than in the anterior vaginal wall.

**G - Endometriosis** - Endometriosis can lead to dysuria, dyspareunia, and a palpable mass on pelvic examination. However, this condition is not associated with urinary incontinence. In addition, the lesions of endometriosis are usually tender to palpation, and this patient does not have other manifestations of endometriosis, including postcoital bleeding, cramping abdominal and/or pelvic pain, and infertility.

