### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Early onset of sexual activity** - HPV serotypes 16 and 18 are oncogenic viruses that increase the risk of CIN by producing the oncogenic proteins E6 and E7. The strongest predisposing factors for HPV infection are the early onset of sexual activity and multiple sexual partners. Women who engage in sexual activity before the age of 18 are at twice the risk of cervical cancer compared to women who are 21 years or older when they first have intercourse. The risk of cervical cancer in women who have had ≥ 6 sexual partners is increased threefold compared with one partner. Other HPV-related risk factors include high-risk sexual behavior, a history of STIs, a history of immunosuppression, and intrauterine exposure to diethylstilbestrol. Higher rates of cervical cancer have also been observed in women of low socioeconomic status and smokers (for squamous cell cancer types only).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Intrauterine device use** - Oral contraceptive use > 5 years is associated with an increased risk of cervical cancer, whereas intrauterine device use actually decreases the risk.

**C - Obesity** - Obesity increases the risk of endometrial cancer, not of cervical cancer. This is due to increased aromatase activity in the abundant adipose tissue, which leads to increased levels of circulating estrogens.

**D - Nulliparity** - Nulliparity increases the risk of developing endometrial cancer, not cervical cancer because nulliparous women are not exposed to the significant increase in progesterone that occurs during pregnancy. In contrast, both high parity and early age of first birth (< 20 years old), increase the risk for cervical cancer, although these factors may be mediated by increased exposure to HPV.

**E - Early menarche** - Early menarche is not a known risk factor for developing cervical cancer, but it is associated with an increased incidence of endometrial cancer due to the increased lifetime exposure to estrogen (similarly to late menopause).

**F - Family history of cancer** - While a family history of gynecological cancers does increase this patient's risk of developing cervical cancer, it is not the strongest predisposing factor.

**G - Polycystic ovary syndrome** - While PCOS is likely the cause of this woman's acne, it is not an established risk factor for the development of cervical cancer. It is, however, associated with an increased risk of endometrial cancer due to the excess circulating estrogen, a direct result of decreased production of sex hormone binding globulin.

