### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Cholangitis** - Ascending infection from a biliary tract pathology, such as cholangitis, is the most common cause of hepatic abscesses. The infection is typically caused by bacteria and mainly is polymicrobial, with E. coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and Streptoccocus spp. being among the most frequent causal pathogens. Hepatic abscesses may also result from intraabdominal infections (e.g., acute appendicitis, peritonitis), or hematogenous spread from systemic circulation (e.g., sepsis).

Image File: 587-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_54379784d199f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Colorectal cancer** - Colorectal cancer commonly metastasizes into the liver, leading to right upper quadrant pain with fever and malaise, as seen in this patient. However, liver metastases typically present as multiple lesions on ultrasound, and this patient has only a single lesion. Neutrophilic leukocytosis would not be expected. Secondary bacterial infection of a metastatic deposit, on the other hand, is a rare cause of hepatic abscess. Moreover, colorectal cancer is unlikely in this 45-year old patient without a known genetic mutation or symptoms such as changes in bowel habits, rectal bleeding, and weight loss.

**B - Infectious endocarditis** - Bacteremia in conditions such as infectious endocarditis (IE) may cause a hepatic abscess due to dissemination via the hepatic artery (< 15% of hepatic abscesses). IE presents with fever and malaise, as in this patient; however, it is also associated with cardiac manifestations (e.g., new or changed heart murmur, heart failure signs), and signs such as Janeway lesions, Osler nodes, and Roth spots. Moreover, IE is unlikely in this patient without risk factors like a predamaged or prosthetic heart valve, IV drug abuse, or recent dental surgery.

**C - Echinococcosis** - Echinococcosis is a helminthic infection resulting in the formation of a hepatic cyst, which can cause right upper quadrant pain and malaise, as seen in this patient. However, it is a rare infection in the US and risk factors for tapeworm exposure (e.g., contact with dogs or other potentially infected definitive hosts) would be expected. Moreover, this patient's laboratory and ultrasound findings are inconsistent with echinococcosis, which is associated with leukopenia, mild eosinophilia, and anechoic, well-defined cysts with eggshell calcifications on ultrasound.

Image File: 587-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d95001857.jpg

**D - Diverticulitis** - Diverticulitis may cause a hepatic abscess due to bacterial infection spread via the portal vein; however, this is a rare complication and associated with high bacterial loads. Moreover, diverticulitis is less common in this patient's age group and is typically associated with symptoms such as left lower quadrant pain and a change in bowel habits.

**F - Perinephric infection** - Perinephric infection may rarely lead to a hepatic abscess via contiguous spread. Since such an infection typically occurs as a complication of pyelonephritis, accompanying symptoms such as dysuria, hematuria, and flank pain would be expected.

