### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Aphthous stomatitis** - Aphthous stomatitis is a common condition that manifests as painful, oral mucosal ulcers with regular margins, a yellow fibrinous base, and a surrounding erythematous halo. The lesions occur in parts of the oral cavity with nonkeratinized mucosa, such as the buccal and labial mucosae, the floor of the mouth, and the ventral surface of the tongue. The lesions typically disappear without treatment within 10–14 days but can recur during periods of acute stress.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pemphigus vulgaris** - A common initial manifestation of pemphigus vulgaris is painful oral blisters that eventually ulcerate. Most patients also develop blisters on other body parts, but recurrent episodes of pemphigus vulgaris can occur without any associated cutaneous lesions (mucosal pemphigus vulgaris). However, the oral ulcers of pemphigus vulgaris typically have irregular margins, unlike the well-defined ovoid lesions seen here. Moreover, pemphigus vulgaris most commonly develops in older patients (40–60 years of age), and the lesions typically do not resolve without treatment.

Image File: 591-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_545ce3a6bfa9f.jpg

**B - Oral thrush** - Oral thrush (oral candidiasis) typically manifests as painless, cream-white lesions of the tongue, buccal mucosa, or palate and occurs in individuals with risk factors such as immunosuppression (e.g., HIV infection), antibiotic therapy, corticosteroid use, xerostomia, and diabetes mellitus. Painful erosions of the labial mucosa in an otherwise healthy adolescent suggest a different diagnosis.

Image File: 591-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57c021febb137.jpg

**C - Herpangina** - Herpangina typically affects children and adolescents and can manifest as painful oral erosions surrounded by an erythematous halo, which is seen here. However, the lesions typically occur on the palate and posterior pharyngeal wall, not the labial mucosa. Moreover, patients with herpangina are typically febrile and present with throat pain. Following an episode of herpangina, individuals become immune to the infecting group A coxsackievirus strain but can develop a recurrent attack of herpangina as a result of infection by a different virus strain.

Image File: 591-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9272a639.jpg

**D - Labial herpes** - Herpes of the lips or oral mucosa manifests with painful blisters that eventually ulcerate. Following the primary infection, herpes stomatitis can recur during periods of stress, which is seen here. However, the lesions of recurrent herpes stomatitis typically occur on keratinized parts of the mouth and oral cavity, such as attached gingiva, the hard palate, and the vermillion border of the lip. The location of this patient's lesions on nonkeratinized areas such as the labial mucosa suggests a different diagnosis.

Image File: 591-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5565b1c895ff1.jpg

**F - Oral leukoplakia** - Oral leukoplakia manifests as a white adherent plaque on the oral mucosa. It is a slowly growing, painless premalignant lesion and is usually seen in middle-aged or elderly patients with a history of tobacco use disorder.

Image File: 591-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d947bae26.jpg

