### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Observation and follow-up** - Hepatic hemangioma is the most common benign liver tumor in women between the ages of 30–50 and is usually an incidental finding on imaging. This patient has a small (≤ 5 cm), asymptomatic hepatic hemangioma that can be treated conservatively with observation and regular follow-up. Patients with larger lesions (> 5 cm) should undergo contrast-enhanced imaging 6–12 months after diagnosis to confirm the stability of the lesion. Surgical intervention may be considered for those with fast-growing or large hemangiomas (> 10 cm) or lesions that cause persistent symptoms such as abdominal discomfort, early satiety, and nausea.

Additionally, this patient has symptomatic cholelithiasis, which requires elective cholecystectomy.

Image File: 594-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_612750816f4fa.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Embolization of the mass** - Transcatheter-arterial embolization using coils or particulate matter can be performed to decrease lesion size prior to surgical resection of large (>10 cm) hepatic hemangiomas. This patient has an asymptomatic, 4-cm hepatic hemangioma; therefore, neither surgery nor preoperative embolization is indicated.

**B - Transcutaneous biopsy** - Transcutaneous biopsy of an incidental liver mass is performed if the diagnosis remains unclear after contrast-enhanced imaging or if the patient has an increased risk of liver malignancy (e.g., cirrhosis, extrahepatic malignancy). However, this patient's ultrasound and triphasic CT findings are diagnostic of hepatic hemangioma. A biopsy is contraindicated in patients with hepatic hemangioma, as it may cause bleeding.

**C - Emergency cholecystectomy** - Emergency cholecystectomy is indicated in the case of acute cholecystitis with complications (e.g., gangrenous cholecystitis, gallbladder perforation, emphysematous cholecystitis). Although this patient has symptomatic cholelithiasis, she has no signs and symptoms of acute cholecystitis, such as fever, leukocytosis, or positive Murphy sign. Also, sonographic signs of gallbladder inflammation (e.g., gallbladder thickening) or perforation are absent.

**D - Surgical resection of the mass** - Surgical resection of hepatic hemangiomas may be considered in symptomatic patients and those with fast-growing or large hemangiomas (> 10 cm). Because this patient has a 4-cm hepatic hemangioma that does not cause symptoms (e.g., early satiety, persistent abdominal pain), surgery is not indicated at this time.

