### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Mucosal radiation damage** - Radiation damage to the rectal mucosa causes acute radiation proctitis (ARP), which manifests with pelvic and rectal pain, mucus in diarrhea, fecal urgency, and/or tenesmus within 6 weeks of radiation therapy. The risk of ARP depends on the radiation dose to the rectum and how much of the rectum receives radiation. Evaluation of patients with suspected ARP consists of a detailed history, laboratory tests with stool cultures to exclude infection, and, if there is diagnostic uncertainty, endoscopy with biopsies. Supportive treatment with antidiarrheals, hydration, and sodium butyrate enemas is usually sufficient.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bacterial invasion of the colon** - Bacterial invasion of the colon (e.g., by Campylobacter jejuni) causes infectious colitis (IC), which can manifest with diarrhea, lower abdominal pain, fecal urgency, and tenesmus. Receptive anal or oral-anal sex is a risk factor for the transmission of bacterial pathogens. However, bacterial IC typically causes acute, self-limiting diarrhea rather than progressively worsening, persistent diarrhea. Moreover, bacterial IC is usually associated with bloody diarrhea and fever.

**B - Toxin-mediated inflammation** - Toxin-mediated inflammation of the colon is the pathomechanism of Clostridioides difficile colitis. This condition can also manifest with lower abdominal pain, fecal urgency, and nonbloody diarrhea and most commonly occurs following antibiotic treatment (e.g., with cephalosporins). However, C. difficile colitis is typically associated with watery and foul-smelling diarrhea and fever. Mucus in stool and a painful rectal examination are not expected.

**C - Obliteration of colonic vessels** - Obliteration of colonic vessels is the pathomechanism of chronic radiation proctopathy, a type of chronic radiation injury that can manifest with rectal pain as well as fecal urgency following radiation therapy to the pelvis. However, chronic radiation proctopathy is typically associated with constipation (due to fibrosis of the colonic wall) rather than diarrhea. Most importantly, this condition is a late complication of radiation therapy, occuring > 3 months after exposure.

**E - Local cancer spread** - Local spread of prostate cancer cells into the rectum can cause rectal pain, diarrhea, fecal urgency, and tenesmus. This patient, however, was diagnosed with localized prostate cancer and underwent brachytherapy, which is considered a definitive treatment. Moreover, his prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level is currently within the reference range, whereas a recent cancer spread or metastasis into the rectum would lead to a significant increase in the PSA level.

