### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Sofosbuvir and ledipasvir therapy** - Sofosbuvir and ledipasvir, both direct-acting antivirals, are the first-line treatment for chronic hepatitis C infection of genotypes 1, 4, 5, and 6. Treatment of chronic hepatitis C infection depends on viral genotype, history of antiviral treatment, and the degree of liver fibrosis. The duration of treatment is typically 12 weeks. This patient had a severe car accident back in the 1980's, at which time he probably received blood transfusions. However, testing of donor blood was introduced in 1992. This event is the most likely explanation of how the patient was infected with HCV, especially considering he has never used intravenous illicit drugs, which is considered one of the most important risk factors for HCV infection.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Tenofovir and velpatasvir therapy** - Tenofovir is indicated in patients with chronic hepatitis B or HIV-1 infection rather than hepatitis C infection. Combined treatment with sofosbuvir and velpatasvir is a first-line treatment for chronic hepatitis C infection caused by any of the 6 HCV genotypes, and would be indicated in this patient.

**C - Interferon and ribavirin therapy** - Interferon and ribavirin (the latter is a guanosine analog) may be administered to treat patients with chronic hepatitis C infection (especially genotypes 2 and 3), nowadays typically as an alternative to direct-acting antivirals. However, this patient has an infection with hepatitis C virus genotype 1, so a combination of peginterferon alpha and ribavirin is not indicated in his case.

**D - Tenofovir and entecavir therapy** - Tenofovir and entecavir, both nucleotide analogs, are medications that are used in the treatment of chronic hepatitis B infection. However, the laboratory studies do not include any values that correspond to a hepatitis B infection (HBsAg is negative).

**E - Peginterferon alpha therapy** - Interferons are signaling proteins that belong to the innate host defense and may be used for treating certain diseases. In particular, peginterferon alpha is a pegylated interferon (pegylation delays the onset of action of interferons) that is used to treat a variety of diseases (e.g., Kaposi sarcoma, malignant melanoma, chronic hepatitis B). The combination of peginterferon alpha with ribavirin may also be administered in cases of chronic hepatitis C infection (especially genotypes 2 and 3). However, this patient has an infection with hepatitis C virus genotype 1. Therefore, peginterferon alpha and ribavirin are not indicated in his case.

**F - Schedule a follow-up in 6 months** - Scheduling a follow-up in 6 months without initiating therapy would be the wrong decision in this case. The laboratory studies suggest an active chronic hepatitis infection genotype 1, which should be treated immediately with the appropriate combination of direct-acting antivirals for 12 weeks.

