### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Penetrating duodenal ulcer** - This patient's history of GI bleeding, frequent naproxen use, smoking, alcohol consumption, and abdominal pain relieved by food intake is highly suggestive of a duodenal ulcer. Long-term use of NSAIDs increases the risk for gastroduodenal ulcers but may also partially obscure associated symptoms. Untreated peptic ulcer disease is often complicated by gastric or duodenal perforation, which typically manifests with severe, acute abdominal pain and distention if the ulcer freely perforates into the abdominal cavity. If, however, the ulcer penetrates into an adjacent organ, an abscess may form, manifesting with nonspecific subacute symptoms (e.g., fever, anorexia, leukocytosis), as seen here. Because of its close proximity to the liver, this patient's penetrating duodenal ulcer has caused a hepatic abscess, as evidenced on ultrasound.

Image File: 599-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_608fe83a67e16.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Acute appendicitis** - Pain due to appendicitis is usually located in the right lower quadrant. It typically does not improve with eating and is not associated with GI bleeding. Perforated appendicitis can be complicated by a periappendiceal abscess, which is usually located near the appendix and not in the liver, the location of this patient's abscess.

**C - Acute pancreatitis** - Acute pancreatitis manifests with abdominal pain, anorexia, vomiting, and, if severe, leukocytosis, all of which are seen in this patient. However, abdominal pain associated with pancreatitis is typically exacerbated rather than relieved by food intake. GI bleeding may occur as a complication of this condition but most patients quickly become hemodynamically unstable, which is not seen here. Finally, acute pancreatitis does not account for this patient's liver abscess on abdominal ultrasound.

**D - Echinococcus granulosus** - Infection with Echinococcus granulosus can cause hepatic cysts that may result in abdominal pain (usually located in the right upper quadrant) and vomiting. The cysts can become secondarily infected and lead to a liver abscess like the one seen in this patient. However, echinococcosis does not explain this patient's GI bleeding. Furthermore, no risk factors for echinococcosis have been reported, such as contact with dogs or sheep.

**E - Diverticulitis** - Patients with diverticulitis may present with abdominal pain, vomiting, leukocytosis, and GI bleeding, but the pain is typically located in the left lower quadrant and does not improve with eating. Moreover, diverticulitis is predominantly a disease in older adults and does not typically affect individuals under 40 years of age. Although abscess formation is a common complication of diverticulitis, the abscess would typically be peridiverticular rather than hepatic.

**F - Liver cancer** - The most common type of liver cancer is hepatocellular carcinoma, which can resemble an abscess on ultrasound and is a common cause of death in individuals with cirrhosis due to HBV or HCV infection. Although this patient's history of illicit drug use and sexual activity puts him at risk of both HBV and HCV infections, he has no signs or symptoms of cirrhosis (e.g., parenchymal fibrosis on ultrasound, jaundice, ascites). Finally, GI bleeding in a patient with hepatocellular carcinoma and no cirrhosis is unlikely.

Image File: 599-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_543653e482556.jpg

