### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Cognitive behavioral therapy** - Trauma-focused cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) is the first-line treatment for patients with acute stress disorder (ASD). CBT helps to reduce the symptoms of ASD and has also been shown to reduce the likelihood of subsequent development of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Trauma-focused CBT for ASD is typically started at least 2-weeks after the traumatic event in order to give the patient time to recover from transient symptoms. This therapy includes patient education, cognitive restructuring, and exposure therapy.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Temazepam therapy** - Temazepam is a benzodiazepine indicated for the symptomatic management of insomnia, acute anxiety, and agitation in the immediate period following a traumatic event. This patient, however, does not present with these symptoms. In addition, benzodiazepines are relatively contraindicated in patients with heavy alcohol use, which is seen here.

**B - Psychological debriefing** - Psychological debriefing, also known as critical incident stress debriefing, is widely used in the management of disasters and other traumatic events. There is no evidence, however, that this type of therapy is effective in preventing complications of acute stress disorder (e.g., post-traumatic stress disorder) in individuals experiencing a traumatic event. Therefore, psychological debriefing is not the most appropriate next step in management for this patient.

**C - Reassurance and reevaluation in 2 weeks** - This patient presents with acute stress disorder (ASD). Patients with ASD are at increased risk of subsequently developing post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Treatment of ASD reduces the likelihood of developing PTSD; therefore, prompt treatment instead of reassurance and reevaluation is the most appropriate next step in management.

**D - Fluoxetine therapy** - Fluoxetine is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). SSRIs are part of the treatment approach for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), where patients experience distressing symptoms related to a specific traumatic event for > 1 month following the event, unlike this patient who has had symptoms for 2 weeks. This patient has acute stress disorder, for which therapy with SSRIs is not currently indicated.

**E - Propranolol therapy** - Propranolol reduces noradrenergic activation and theoretically reduces fear conditioning in patients with acute stress disorder. However, this effect has not been confirmed in clinical trials; thus, propranolol therapy is not the most appropriate next step in management for this patient.

