### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Wash hands with soap and water** - Adequate hand hygiene, which is a standard precaution, should always be performed by health care providers (HCPs) for infection control before and after contact with a patient, regardless of whether or not the patient has an infection. In most instances, the use of alcohol-based hand rubs (ABHRs) alone is a quicker and superior method of hand hygiene than washing hands with soap and water. However, hand hygiene with soap and water rather than an ABHR is required if the HCP's hands are visibly soiled or when caring for patients with acute infectious diarrhea or infections due to spore-forming organisms such as C. difficile, because ABHRs are ineffective against spores. Wearing gloves and a gown is an important adjunct in preventing contamination with spores but is not a substitute for hand hygiene. HCPs should wash hands with soap and water before putting on gloves and gown as well as after removing them.

When caring for patients with contact-transmitted diseases such as C. difficile infection, in addition to standard precautions, HCPs should follow contact precautions (e.g., isolating patients, wearing gloves and a gown upon room entry).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Wear an N95 respirator** - Health care providers wear an N95 respirator as part of airborne precautions when caring for patients with diseases spread by person-to-person airborne transmission (e.g., tuberculosis, measles, varicella). Legionnaire disease (LD), which causes acute pneumonia and GI symptoms (e.g., watery diarrhea, abdominal pain), can spread in hospitals via airborne transmission as a result of aerosol generation from a contaminated water source (e.g., through an airconditioning unit or shower). However, transmission-based precautions (e.g., airborne precautions) are not indicated when caring for patients with LD because person-to-person transmission is extremely rare. Moreover, patients with LD usually develop pneumonia and GI symptoms simultaneously, unlike this patient who developed GI symptoms 5 days after being admitted for pneumonia. Prevention of C. difficile transmission does not require airborne precautions.

**B - Use an alcohol-based hand rub** - Alcohol-based foam or gel hand rubs are quick to use and more effective against most organisms than other hand hygiene methods, but they are ineffective against spore-forming organisms such as C. difficile.

**C - No further infection control measures are required** - Health care providers should always follow standard precautions for infection control regardless of whether or not the patient has an infection. Standard precautions are not fulfilled by only isolating the patient and wearing gloves and a gown upon room entry.

**E - Wear a surgical mask** - When caring for patients, health care providers should wear a surgical mask as part of standard precautions when there is a risk of exposure to body fluids or other potentially infectious material (e.g., when performing a procedure that can generate splashes or sprays) and as a part of droplet precautions (e.g., when within 3–6 feet of a patient with a droplet-transmitted infection). Prevention of C. difficile transmission does not require droplet precautions; a different element of standard precautions prevents transmission.

