### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Lymphatic tissue hyperplasia** - This patient most likely presents with acute appendicitis. Lymphatic tissue hyperplasia is the primary etiology of appendicitis in children; fecalith obstruction is the most common etiology in adults. Less common etiologies of appendicitis include obstruction due to foreign bodies, worm infestations, and tumors (e.g., carcinoid tumor). Obstruction within the appendix results in mucus and fluids stasis, allowing bacterial overgrowth and ultimately causing inflammation of the organ. Patients with appendicitis typically present with abdominal pain (dull migratory periumbilical pain that progresses to sharp right lower quadrant pain), fever, loss of appetite, nausea, and leukocytosis, as seen in this patient.

Image File: 604-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5cffabc461043.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Bacterial mesenteric lymphadenitis** - Bacterial mesenteric lymphadenitis is the underlying etiology of pseudoappendicitis. The disease manifests with right lower quadrant pain, fever, vomiting, and leukocytosis, identical to the findings observed in this patient. However, pseudoappendicitis primarily affects children under 5 years of age.

**B - Pseudomembranous plaque formation in the colon** - Pseudomembranous plaque formation in the colon is a distinctive feature of Clostridioides difficile colitis. The disease manifests with diarrhea, fever, abdominal pain, and leukocytosis, similar to the symptoms seen in this patient. However, C. difficile colitis is predominantly an antibiotic-associated diarrhea, and this patient has no history of antibiotic intake. Moreover, Clostridioides difficile colitis primarily occurs in patients older than 65 years (often after recent hospitalization) and would be unlikely in this 15-year-old patient.

**C - Diverticular inflammation in the colon** - Colonic diverticular inflammation (diverticulitis) can manifest with low-grade fevers, loss of appetite, diarrhea, vomiting, and abdominal pain (typically left lower quadrant pain). However, diverticulitis primarily occurs in patients older than 60 years and would be unlikely in this 15-year-old patient.

**D - Congenital anomaly of the omphalomesenteric duct** - A congenital anomaly of the omphalomesenteric duct is the underlying cause of Meckel diverticulum. This true diverticulum may contain gastric and/or pancreatic tissue. The ectopic activity of these tissues can result in abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, and loss of appetite. However, most cases of Meckel diverticula remain asymptomatic. Symptomatic Meckel diverticula most commonly present with painless gastrointestinal bleeding, which this patient does not have. Moreover, patients with Meckel diverticula are most likely to present with symptoms in the first two years of life.

**F - Gestation in the fallopian tube** - Gestation in the fallopian tube results in ectopic pregnancy. Patients with ectopic pregnancy often experience lower unilateral abdominal pain resulting in guarding, vomiting, and a loss of appetite. However, ectopic pregnancies usually become symptomatic about 7–8 weeks after the last menses, and this patient had her last menses only 3 weeks ago.

