### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Confluent inflammation of the colonic mucosa with edema, fibrin-covered ulcers, and loss of vascular pattern** - This option describes the findings of ulcerative colitis on endoscopy. Colonoscopy shows mucosal edema, reduced vascular markings, and broad-based linear ulcers or collar-button ulcers covered with fibrin. In advanced disease, isolated islands of regenerating mucosa within the ulcers protrude into the lumen of the intestine, giving rise to pseudopolyps. Lastly, chronic inflammation leads to mucosal atrophy, resulting in a loss of mucosal folds and vascular pattern.

Image File: 609-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_53d8f0de9e52a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pseudomembranes overlying regions of colonic inflammation** - This option describes the findings of pseudomembranous colitis, most commonly caused by Clostridioides difficile. However, the patient's history and a positive p-ANCA suggest that she has ulcerative colitis, which is not associated with pseudomembrane formation.

Image File: 609-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_53d8fc94ca8e0.jpg

**B - Patchy inflammation of mucosa with cobblestone appearance and intervening areas of normal mucosa** - This option describes the findings of Crohn disease on endoscopy. The lesions in Crohn disease are multiple, sharply delineated areas of inflammation with intervening regions of normal mucosa. These delineated regions slowly coalesce to form long, serpiginous ulcers between normal mucosa, thus giving the mucosa a cobblestone appearance.

Image File: 609-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_547454f18ee52.jpg

**D - Normal colonic mucosa** - A patient with chronic abdominal pain, diarrhea, and weight loss as well as normal findings on colonoscopy should receive a gastroduodenoscopy to check for small intestinal diseases like celiac disease. Biopsies should also be taken to exclude microscopic colitis. However, this patient's presentation is most likely due to ulcerative colitis.

Image File: 609-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5822de6414c60.jpg

**E - Numerous polyps extending throughout the colon** - Colon polyps may occur sporadically and are found incidentally during endoscopy in a number of individuals, especially the elderly. Certain inherited premalignant conditions such as familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) are associated with a large number of intestinal polyps. A family history of colon cancer in this patient increases the likelihood that this patient has a familial condition associated with colon cancer. However, colonic polyps are usually asymptomatic and the clinical presentation indicates ulcerative colitis.

