### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder** - Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder (OCPD) is a personality disorder characterized by inflexibility, excessive perfectionism, and preoccupation with order and control. Patients with OCPD often make lists and schedules to an extent that the main details of a task or activity are lost; their perfectionism interferes with task completion and social relationships, as seen in this case. Therapeutic options for OCPD include cognitive behavioral therapy, psychodynamic psychotherapy, relaxation, and supplemental treatment with antidepressants. However, treatment is difficult because this personality disorder is egosyntonic.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Obsessive-compulsive disorder** - Obsessive-compulsive disorder manifests with recurrent worries that cause distress and insomnia. However, patients with OCD typically have very intrusive and time-consuming thoughts, images, or urges and show repetitive behaviors that are performed in response to these intrusions. Additionally, OCD is characteristically egodystonic; there is no indication that this man views his behavior as inappropriate.

**C - Specific phobia** - Specific phobias are characterized by persistent and intense fear and/or anxiety due to a specific situation or object. This patient has anxiety better explained by another diagnosis and does not express fear of his stressors. Additionally, specific phobias can only be diagnosed if symptoms have been present for ≥ 6 months.

**D - Generalized anxiety disorder** - Generalized anxiety disorder can manifest with recurrent worrying and insomnia. However, it usually involves severe anxiety caused by various aspects of daily life and significant social or occupational impairment; this patient is primarily worried about an upcoming project rather than multiple facets of life. Additionally, GAD can only be diagnosed if symptoms have been present for ≥ 6 months.

**E - Schizoid personality disorder** - Schizoid personality disorder is characterized by limited emotional expression and voluntary social withdrawal. There is no evidence of limited emotional range in this patient and he does not participate in social activities because of lack of time.

**F - Adjustment disorder with mixed anxiety and depressed mood** - Adjustment disorder with mixed anxiety and depressed mood can manifest with worry and distress that occurs in response to a psychosocial stressor within 3 months of the stressor's onset. Although this patient started a new project 3 months ago, his insistence on order predates this event.

