### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Perform endotracheal intubation** - This patient is disoriented and therefore at high risk of aspiration of gastrointestinal contents. All patients with severe, ongoing hematemesis and altered mental status should be intubated for airway protection. Endotracheal intubation decreases the risk of aspiration and can also facilitate upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and placement of a balloon tamponade for patients with uncontrollable hemorrhage.

Image File: 611-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f16d18510810.jpg

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Place nasogastric tube** - Placement of a nasogastric tube (NGT) for NGT lavage may be useful to help determine whether blood is coming from the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract and whether or not patients have ongoing bleeding. It can also remove fresh blood, clots, and other stomach contents to facilitate upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. This patient's ongoing bright red hematemesis suggests ongoing upper gastrointestinal bleeding, so NGT placement is unnecessary. Additionally, patients with suspected esophageal variceal bleeding should not undergo NGT placement, which may trigger even more bleeding and further damage the esophagus.

**B - Administer packed red blood cells** - Indications for transfusion of packed red blood cells (pRBCs) in patients with acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding include hemodynamic instability refractory to fluid resuscitation, a hemoglobin concentration below 9.0 g/dL in high-risk patients (such as the elderly and patients with unstable coronary artery disease), and a hemoglobin concentration below 7.0 g/dL in low-risk patients. However, this patient continues to be hemodynamically stable and has a hemoglobin concentration of 9.5 g/dL.

**D - Administer oral omeprazole** - Administration of omeprazole, a proton pump inhibitor (PPI), suppresses acid production and significantly reduces the rate of rebleeding in patients with active upper gastrointestinal bleeding from peptic ulcers. Patients with ongoing hematemesis should not receive anything by mouth, particularly if they also have altered mental status. PPIs should be administered intravenously to avoid further risking aspiration. The cause of this patient's hematemesis is still unclear, so empiric treatment with a PPI is an important part of initial management, although it is not the next best step for this patient who has altered mental state.

**E - Administer intravenous octreotide** - Administration of octreotide causes vasoconstriction, which can help control severe ongoing bleeding, although it does not address the primary cause of bleeding. It is important in the management of patients with suspected esophageal variceal bleeding. This patient already has intravenous access for fluid resuscitation and is hemodynamically stable. Therefore, he does not immediately require intravenous octreotide. A different step in management is more urgent at this time.

**F - Perform upper endoscopy** - Upper endoscopy is both diagnostic and therapeutic in patients with upper gastrointestinal bleeding who are hemodynamically stable. In particular, in patients with suspected esophageal variceal bleeding, endoscopic variceal ligation can achieve hemostasis and prevent recurrent bleeding. The goal for these patients is to perform endoscopy within the first 12 hours of presentation. However, this patient still has ongoing hematemesis and altered mental status, and, therefore, upper endoscopy is not the next best step for him.

