### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Biopsy of the lesions** - Biopsy of the lesions is the next best step in the management of leukoplakia. While leukoplakia is by itself a benign lesion, it predisposes to squamous cell carcinoma. Up to 20% of leukoplakia lesions progress to carcinoma within 10 years. Because of this, it is important to biopsy leukoplakia lesions to check for signs of dysplasia.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Topical nystatin** - Topical nystatin is the first-line therapy for oropharyngeal candidiasis. This patient uses inhaled corticosteroids, which are a known risk factor for developing oral candidiasis. However, candidiasis is identified by its ability to be easily scraped off. The lesions in this patient's mouth are strongly adherent, making leukoplakia a more likely diagnosis. Additionally, this patient lacks other common symptoms of candidiasis, including pain while eating, loss of taste, and a cottony feeling in the mouth.

**C - Topical corticosteroids** - Topical corticosteroids would be useful for the management of aphthous stomatitis. These “canker sores” have a round to oval, crater-like appearance on yellowish-grey base and erythematous margins, unlike this patient's presentation of white plaques.

**D - Surgical excision of the lesions** - Surgical excision may be needed if the lesions persist following more conservative treatment. It would not be the first-line therapy or diagnostic tool.

**E - Smoking cessation** - Smoking cessation is indicated in the long-term health maintenance of this patient. However, it would not directly help with the diagnosis or management of the leukoplakia, and more immediate steps need to be taken.

**F - Culture of the lesions** - A culture of the lesions would be appropriate if there was a concern for oropharyngeal candidiasis. However, candidiasis can be identified by its ability to be easily scraped off. The lesions in this patient's mouth are strongly adherent, making leukoplakia a more likely diagnosis. Additionally, this patient lacks other common symptoms of candidiasis, including pain while eating, loss of taste, and a cottony feeling in the mouth.

**G - Monospot test** - Monospot test would be used to test for Epstein-Barr virus, which causes oral hairy leukoplakia. This also presents as white painless plaques that cannot be scraped off. However, they tend to present on the lateral edges of the tongue as opposed to the buccal mucosa and hard palate as seen in this patient.

