### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Urea breath test** - Urea breath test is a sensitive and specific test used to detect active H. pylori infection. Testing for active H. pylori infection is the most appropriate next step in a patient < 60 years of age who presents with dyspepsia, no recent history of NSAID use, and no alarm features that suggest gastric malignancy or a complicated peptic ulcer; this patient fulfills all of these criteria. Once the diagnosis has been confirmed, patients are treated with a triple therapy of antibiotics and a PPI. H. pylori stool antigen test is an alternative to urea breath test to detect active H. pylori infection. Both are rapid, noninvasive, and highly sensitive and specific tests.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Helicobacter pylori eradication therapy** - H. pylori eradication therapy is the appropriate treatment for H. pylori infection, which is a common cause of dyspepsia. However, empirical administration of therapy without definitive evidence of H. pylori infection is not recommended.

**C - Helicobacter pylori serum IgG** - Serology for H. pylori infection is a rapid, noninvasive, inexpensive test that detects if a person has ever been exposed to H. pylori. A positive serology, however, cannot differentiate between active and previous infections; additional testing is required to confirm active H. pylori infection.

**D - Proton pump inhibitors** - PPIs are the treatment of choice for patients with peptic ulcer disease (PUD) or GERD because they effectively suppress gastric acid secretion. Empirical therapy with PPIs is only indicated in patients with dyspepsia and symptoms that strongly suggest GERD (retrosternal heartburn and regurgitation), which this patient does not have. In all other patients with dyspepsia, investigations to confirm the etiology (e.g., peptic ulcer disease, H. pylori infection, gastric malignancy) should precede therapy.

**E - Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy** - Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy is the most accurate method for confirming the etiology of dyspepsia. However, it is only indicated in patients with dyspepsia who are ≥ 60 years of age with alarm features suggestive of gastric malignancy or a complicated peptic ulcer, such as weight loss, anemia, dysphagia, or repeated vomiting. In patients who are < 60 years of age with no alarm features, like this patient, dyspepsia is most likely due to a benign etiology that can be confirmed using less invasive methods.

**F - Abdominal ultrasonography** - Abdominal ultrasonography is not routinely part of the workup for dyspepsia. It may be performed in patients with no identifiable cause for dyspepsia on first-line investigations (e.g., normal endoscopy, negative tests for H. pylori) and/or those who have persistent dyspepsia despite adequate therapy in order to identify other possible causes of dyspepsia (e.g., cholelithiasis).

