### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Oral vancomycin** - Oral vancomycin is a first-line therapy used to treat C. difficile infection. This condition typically manifests following antibiotic therapy (e.g., ciprofloxacin, as in this case), which destroys many gastrointestinal bacteria except for C. difficile, which is resistant to the most frequently used antibiotics. This selective advantage allows it to proliferate and cause infection. In addition to discontinuing the inciting antibiotic, management includes correction of fluid loss and electrolyte imbalances if needed, and contact precautions to prevent transmission. Oral fidaxomicin is another appropriate first-line therapy for C. difficile infection. Metronidazole is a second-line therapy recommended when vancomycin and fidaxomicin are unavailable or contraindicated (e.g., due to allergy).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral rifaximin** - Oral rifaximin is recommended as part of the treatment for a second or subsequent recurrence of C. difficile infection. This patient most likely has an initial episode of C. difficile infection, for which rifaximin is not indicated.

**B - Intravenous vancomycin** - Intravenous vancomycin has no role in the treatment of C. difficile infection because it is mainly excreted into the urine via glomerular filtration and does not reach the colon (the main site of infection).

**D - Oral metronidazole** - Oral metronidazole is the first-line therapy in children with nonsevere C. difficile infection. Although previously considered the first-line therapy for initial episodes of nonsevere C. difficile infection in adults, metronidazole is now considered second-line.

**E - Fecal microbiota transplantation** - Fecal microbiota transplantation is indicated in patients with recurrent C. difficile infections who have not responded to at least two appropriate antibiotic regimens. This patient most likely has an initial episode of C. difficile infection, for which fecal microbiota transplantation is not indicated.

**F - Intravenous metronidazole** - Intravenous metronidazole, in combination with oral vancomycin, is used to treat fulminant C. difficile infection. This patient has no signs suggestive of fulminant C. difficile infection (e.g., hypovolemic shock, paralytic ileus). Given his leukocyte count < 15,000/mm3, this patient most likely has a nonsevere C. difficile infection, for which intravenous metronidazole is not recommended.

