### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Abdominal paracentesis** - Abdominal paracentesis is both diagnostic and therapeutic in patients with ascites. Patients with cirrhosis are at much higher risk of perioperative morbidity and mortality, especially if complications of liver dysfunction are present (e.g., ascites, coagulopathy, encephalopathy). Perioperative mortality increases with CTP score (grade A-10%, B-30%, C-80%). In all but the most emergent surgeries, cirrhotic patients should have such complications corrected before proceeding to surgery in order to minimize the risk of surgical morbidity. In this case, abdominal paracentesis would allow for laboratory analysis of the ascitic fluid. Additionally, it would also help relieve the high intraabdominal pressure associated with ascites, thus, decreasing the risk of surgical wound dehiscence.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral rifaximin and lactulose** - Oral rifaximin and lactulose are both first-line treatments for hepatic encephalopathy, for which this patient is at risk given her cirrhosis. Because this patient's mental status appears normal, she is not encephalopathic.

**B - Intravenous vitamin K** - Vitamin K is indicated to correct elevated PT/INR in non-emergencies. While this patient may benefit from correction of her borderline-elevated INR, vitamin K supplementation is ineffective in patients with cirrhosis. Vitamin K is simply a substrate used by the liver to make clotting factors. However, if the liver's synthetic function is compromised (as in cirrhotics), then vitamin K supplementation will not have any significant effect on coagulation. In coagulopathic patients with cirrhosis, clotting factors themselves (e.g., FFP) must be provided.

**D - Laparoscopic cholecystectomy** - Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is the standard treatment option for cholecystitis in good operative candidates. While this patient has cholecystitis, she also has evidence of liver disease which significantly increases her perioperative risk. Other interventions are indicated before it is safe to proceed with cholecystectomy.

**E - Open cholecystectomy** - Open cholecystectomy is indicated for patients with cholecystitis if laparoscopic approach fails or if complications are suspected (e.g., gangrene or perforation). While this patient has cholecystitis, it is most likely uncomplicated so open surgery is not indicated.

