### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Amoxicillin, clarithromycin, and omeprazole** - A combination of amoxicillin, clarithromycin, and omeprazole for a minimum of 7 days is used for H. pylori eradication therapy. Multiple studies have demonstrated an association between MALT lymphoma and H. pylori infection. In 60–80% of patients with H. pylori-associated gastric MALT lymphoma, H. pylori eradication therapy causes complete regression of the tumor.

Image File: 629-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d950ac895.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Rituximab and chlorambucil** - In a patient with H. pylori-associated gastric MALT lymphoma, chemotherapy (e.g., a combination of a CD20 antagonist such as rituximab and chlorambucil) is only used if regression of the tumor does not occur with first-line therapy.

**B - Distal gastrectomy with gastrojejunostomy** - Surgical resection was formerly the treatment of choice for gastric lymphoma. However, evidence shows that negative surgical margins do not ensure a lower risk of recurrence because MALT lymphoma is a multifocal disease of the gastric mucosa. Therefore, the only way to prevent recurrence is to perform a total gastrectomy, which is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Other treatment options are safer and more effective. A gastrectomy is now considered only if the preferred treatments have failed to treat the gastric lymphoma, or if complications such as perforation occur.

**C - Rituximab, cyclophosphamide, adriamycin, and vincristine** - A combination of rituximab, cyclophosphamide, adriamycin, and vincristine is used as a part of the R-CHOP polychemotherapy regimen to treat diffuse large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCL) of the stomach, which can cause epigastric pain and melena. A DLBCL would also be positive for the CD20 antigen. However, a biopsy would show an infiltrative growth of large cells (5 times the size of a lymphocyte) that are arranged in clusters or sheets.

**D - Imatinib** - Imatinib can be used to treat gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST). GISTs most commonly occur in the stomach (60% of cases), are most common in elderly individuals, and can result in abdominal pain as well as melena. However, the biopsy would have shown spindle-shaped epitheloid cells instead of lymphoid cells, and they would not have been positive for CD20.

**E - External beam radiation therapy** - Radiation therapy is highly effective in treating H. pylori-associated gastric MALT lymphoma. However, because of its adverse effects of nausea, vomiting, fatigue, and skin erythema, a safer form of therapy with a comparably high tumor regression rate is preferred as first-line therapy.

