### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Enteral feeding via nasogastric tube** - Critically ill patients with an intact gastrointestinal tract can receive short-term enteral feeding via nasogastric tube (e.g., less than 3 weeks) if there are no contraindications. Enteral feeding is preferred over parenteral nutrition because it stimulates intestinal motility and prevents atrophy of the GI tract. As long as there is no facial trauma, a nasogastric tube can be used for enteral feeding. When feeding, patients should have their backrest elevated to prevent aspiration and reduce the incidence of nosocomial pneumonia.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral feeding** - Oral feeding would be inappropriate because the patient is on mechanical ventilation with an endotracheal tube. He cannot ingest food by mouth.

**B - Total parenteral nutrition** - Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) bypasses the gastrointestinal tract. The lack of intestinal stimulation increases the risk of intestinal atrophy, making it inferior in this case to other feeding methods. TPN is only indicated in patients who have contraindications to enteral feeding because of gastrointestinal problems (e.g., ileus, obstruction, nonfunctional GI tract), which this patient does not have.

**C - Keep patient NPO** - Nutritional support is indicated in critically ill patients with a low GCS who cannot be fed. Keeping the patient NPO would only be indicated for the first 48 hours following surgery in case repeat surgery is necessary.

**E - Enteral feeding using a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube** - A PEG tube would only be considered for long-term enteral feeding, as temporary routes such as nasogastric or nasoenteric tubes often fail with long-term use because of clogging and inadvertent dislodgement. However, for the short term, a PEG tube would be too invasive in a patient with a potentially reversible condition.

