### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Patient-controlled intravenous hydromorphone** - Patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) with intravenous hydromorphone is the most appropriate next step in the management of this patient's pain from acute pancreatitis. Intravenous hydromorphone is a very effective analgesic that acts rapidly. Administering this drug using a PCA protocol allows the patient to titrate the medication based on her pain, which minimizes the risk of underdosing the analgesic while the patient is experiencing severe pain. To avoid respiratory depression from opioid overdose, PCA pumps limit the amount of opioid that is delivered, and patients are monitored closely.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral hydrocodone on request** - Oral hydrocodone is a potent analgesic that is appropriate for treating severe pain. Patients with acute pancreatitis and vomiting are often kept NPO, and they have an increased risk of developing delayed gastric emptying and an ileus. Therefore, intravenous analgesia would be more appropriate for initial pain management.

**C - Transdermal bupivacaine on request** - Transdermal bupivacaine provides pain relief in the region surrounding its point of application. In a patient with acute pancreatitis and severe abdominal pain, a more potent, systemic analgesic would be indicated.

**D - Continuous intravenous ketamine** - Ketamine plays a key role in emergency medicine because of its strong dissociative, sympathomimetic, and analgesic effects. Although this drug provides potent transient pain relief, continuous intravenous ketamine infusion causes profound sedation that requires continuous monitoring in a critical care unit. It would not be the most appropriate treatment plan for this patient.

**E - Oral acetaminophen every 6 hours** - Oral acetaminophen is a mild analgesic and a useful adjunct for controlling severe pain, especially when combined with an opioid. This patient has severe pain (8–9 on the pain scale) that requires a more potent analgesic for adequate pain relief.

**F - Oral gabapentin every 24 hours** - Oral gabapentin is a useful adjunct for pain control, especially in patients with chronic neuropathic pain. This patient, however, has severe acute pain (8–9 on the pain scale) and requires a more potent analgesic for adequate pain relief.

**G - Transdermal fentanyl every 72 hours** - Transdermal fentanyl is an effective adjunct for pain control in individuals with chronic pain requiring opioids. However, this drug is not used in the initial management of acute severe pain, because it has a relatively slow onset of action and delivers a fixed dose of opioid, making dose titration difficult.

