### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Cyclothymic disorder** - Cyclothymic disorder (cyclothymia) is characterized by distinct periods of depressive symptoms and distinct periods of hypomanic symptoms for ≥ 2 years (or ≥ 1 year for children). To meet the diagnostic criteria for cyclothymic disorder, there must be ≤ 2 consecutive months of a symptom-free period, and symptoms should not meet the diagnostic criteria for either a hypomanic episode (i.e., ≥ 3 hypomanic symptoms) or a major depressive episode (i.e., ≥ 5 SIGECAPS symptoms).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Major depressive disorder with seasonal pattern** - Major depressive disorder with seasonal pattern is characterized by ≥ 2 major depressive episodes over ≥ 2 years that are associated with a particular time of the year (e.g., the winter season). However, this patient's depressive symptoms do not fulfill the diagnostic criteria for a major depressive episode (i.e., ≥ 5 SIGECAPS symptoms), and they are not associated with a particular season. In addition, the hypomanic symptoms seen in this patient are uncharacteristic of major depressive disorder with seasonal pattern.

**B - Bipolar II disorder** - Bipolar II disorder is characterized by ≥ 1 hypomanic episode and ≥ 1 major depressive episode. Although this patient has both hypomanic and depressive symptoms, her symptoms do not fulfill the diagnostic criteria for either a hypomanic episode (i.e., ≥ 3 hypomanic symptoms) or a major depressive episode (i.e., ≥ 5 SIGECAPS symptoms). Moreover, the chronicity of her symptoms indicates a different diagnosis.

**C - Persistent depressive disorder** - Persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia) is a mood disorder characterized by depressed mood in addition to ≥ 2 SIGECAPS symptoms. These symptoms must be present during most of the day for the majority of the time over ≥ 2 years and cannot be attributable to substance use, bipolar disorder, psychotic disorders, or another medical condition. To meet the diagnostic criteria for persistent depressive disorder, there must be ≤ 2 consecutive months of a symptom-free period. This patient has had > 2 month periods without depressive symptoms. In addition, the hypomanic symptoms seen in this patient are uncharacteristic of persistent depressive disorder.

**E - Bipolar disorder with rapid cycling** - Bipolar disorder with rapid cycling is characterized by ≥ 4 mood episodes within 1 year. Although this patient has had distinct episodes of hypomanic and depressive symptoms, her symptoms do not meet the diagnostic criteria for a mood episode (e.g., ≥ 3 hypomanic symptoms for a hypomanic episode, ≥ 5 SIGECAPS symptoms for a major depressive episode).

**F - Major depressive disorder with atypical features** - Major depressive disorder with atypical features is characterized by mood reactivity (i.e., transient improvement in mood in response to a positive event) and ≥ 2 symptoms of increased appetite or weight gain, hypersomnia, leaden paralysis, and long-standing interpersonal rejection sensitivity that results in occupational or social impairment. Although this patient has an increased appetite, she does not have other atypical features, and her symptoms do not meet the diagnostic criteria for a major depressive episode (i.e., ≥ 5 SIGECAPS symptoms). In addition, the presence of hypomanic symptoms is uncharacteristic of major depressive disorder with atypical features.

