### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Use of a dental dam** - This patient is at increased risk of contracting a sexually transmitted infection (STI) because he has multiple partners. His nontender oral ulcer with raised, indurated borders (chancre) and concomitant nontender lymphadenopathy (due to reactive follicular hyperplasia) is consistent with primary syphilis. The chancre is usually solitary, and develops at the site of inoculation after about 3 weeks. The chancre resolves without scarring after 3–6 weeks regardless of treatment. While primary syphilitic lesions most often occur in the genital region, about 5–10% of cases of primary syphilis are extragenital. Typical localizations are the oral cavity, hands and fingers, or the anus and perianal region, which reflect sexual practices, but chancres can occur wherever the skin has been in contact with Treponema pallidum from infectious sores. The use of a condom during vaginal or anal sex, and a dental dam during oral sex, can protect an individual against STIs by preventing contact with body fluids or an infectious lesion.

Question Difficulty: 0

** Other Answers: **

**A - Catch-up immunization** - Completing the immunization schedule (via catch-up immunization) protects against vaccine-preventable diseases such as diphtheria and HPV infection. Diphtheria manifests acutely with sore throat, malaise, fever, pseudomembranous pharyngitis, and painful lymphadenopathy. Oral HPV infection manifests with warts or oropharyngeal squamous cell cancer (SCC). Oropharyngeal SCC can result in a nontender ulcerative lesion and painless cervical lymphadenopathy, but there is no evidence of a malignancy on this patient's lymph node biopsy. There is currently no immunization available against this patient's infection.

**C - Cessation of smoking** - Smoking is one of the most important risk factors for head and neck cancers, and a nontender, ulcerative lesion with concomitant nontender cervical lymphadenopathy is also consistent with malignancy. However, fine-needle aspiration cytology shows no signs of malignancy (e.g., keratin pearls in squamous cell carcinoma, the most common mucosal head and neck cancer); reactive follicular hyperplasia suggests another etiology.

**D - Dietary restriction of gluten** - Dietary restriction of gluten is used to prevent manifestations of celiac disease (CD), which is caused by a maladaptive immune response to this protein. CD can lead to oral lesions as a result of malabsorption and nutrient deficiency. However, the oral manifestations of CD are poor dentition, atrophic glossitis, recurrent aphthous stomatitis, and cheilitis. The appearance of this patient's oral ulcer, its painless nature, and the concomitant cervical lymphadenopathy are inconsistent with any of the oral manifestations of CD. Moreover, this patient does not have signs typically seen in CD, such as chronic diarrhea, recurrent abdominal pain, and signs of malabsorption such as weight loss, fatigue, or anemia.

**E - Acyclovir therapy** - Acyclovir is used in the treatment of herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection, which can cause oral ulceration and lymphadenopathy. However, HSV infection typically causes multiple, shallow ulcers with flat margins, and both the ulcerations and lymphadenopathy would be painful. Furthermore, herpes infections are prone to recurrence even with acyclovir therapy; previous acyclovir therapy would not have prevented a new episode. Acyclovir only decreases the duration and severity of an active episode and reduces viral shedding during the episode.

