### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Pancreatic ductal injury** - Pancreatic ductal injury can occur in cases of blunt abdominal trauma when the pancreas is compressed against the vertebral bodies, commonly from seatbelt or handlebar injuries as a result of motor vehicle or bicycle accidents. Although a CT scan is a key imaging modality in patients with blunt abdominal trauma, it has poor sensitivity for early detection of traumatic pancreatic injuries. Signs and symptoms of ductal injury may resemble those of acute pancreatitis and may likewise take several days to manifest. This explains the often delayed presentation and diagnosis of pancreatic injuries such as laceration, contusion, or rupture, as seen here.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Liver hematoma** - A liver hematoma is one of the most common complications of blunt abdominal trauma and can present with upper abdominal pain, as seen in this patient. However, liver hematoma is typically identified on initial abdominal CT scan post-trauma. In addition, this diagnosis is inconsistent with this patient's fever and delayed onset of symptoms.

**C - Aortic dissection** - Aortic dissection may occur as a complication of blunt trauma with rapid deceleration (e.g., in a motor vehicle accident). This condition typically manifests with the acute onset of tearing chest or abdominal pain with radiation to the back, which is inconsistent with this patient's presentation.

**D - Abdominal compartment syndrome** - Abdominal compartment syndrome can be a complication of abdominal trauma. This is secondary to accumulation of blood causing increased intra-abdominal pressure and ultimately organ dysfunction. Although this condition may present with abdominal pain, patients typically appear critically ill with tense abdominal distention and hemodynamic instability, which this patient does not have. In addition, CT imaging would typically show intra-abdominal trauma or bleeding from the underlying etiology.

**E - Diaphragmatic rupture** - Diaphragmatic rupture can be a complication of either penetrating or blunt trauma and may present with upper abdominal pain, as seen in this patient. However, this condition presents with acute onset respiratory distress and decreased breath sounds on the affected side, which is inconsistent with this patient's presentation. In addition, abdominal CT imaging would show herniation of intra-abdominal contents into the thorax.

**F - Splenic rupture** - Splenic rupture is one of the most common injuries from blunt abdominal trauma and can manifest with upper abdominal pain, as seen in this patient. Symptoms of splenic rupture are most commonly sudden rather than gradual in onset. Moreover, splenic rupture would have likely been identified on initial abdominal CT scan post-trauma. In addition, splenic rupture is likely to cause massive intra-abdominal bleeding and hemodynamic instability, neither of which is seen in this patient. Fever, poor appetite, and vomiting would not be expected.

