### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Upper endoscopy** - Upper endoscopy should be performed on all patients with newly diagnosed liver cirrhosis to screen for esophageal varices, which are a risk factor for life-threatening bleeding. Prophylactic therapy with nonselective beta blockers (e.g., propranolol, nadolol) or endoscopic variceal ligation is indicated in patients with high-risk varices (e.g, large varices with high wall pressure). Endoscopy should be repeated at regular intervals ranging from yearly to every 3 years depending on the presence and size of varices and whether the patient has an ongoing liver injury (e.g., continuing alcohol consumption). In addition, patients with cirrhosis should have an abdominal ultrasound at 6-month intervals with periodic monitoring of alpha-fetoprotein to screen for hepatocellular carcinoma, should repeat laboratory tests every 6 months to recalculate the Child-Pugh score and Model for End Stage Liver Disease score, and should be clinically evaluated for hepatic encephalopathy on a regular basis.

Image File: 644-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_53d90fd6692e2.jpg

Question Difficulty: 0

** Other Answers: **

**A - Abdominal CT scan** - A contrast-enhanced abdominal CT scan can be used to evaluate for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), for which liver cirrhosis is a significant risk factor. Regular screening for HCC at 6-month intervals is recommended in all patients diagnosed with liver cirrhosis. However, abdominal ultrasound (with periodic measurement of alpha-fetoprotein) is the screening modality of choice. A CT scan can be used if evaluation of the liver by ultrasound is limited (e.g., due to severe cirrhosis) or as a confirmatory test if a suspicious lesion is visualized. An abdominal CT can also be used to diagnose pancreatic disorders such as malignancy or chronic pancreatitis, both of which are associated with heavy alcohol use. However, routine screening for these conditions is not indicated.

**B - Mini-Mental State Examination** - Mini-mental state examination (MMSE) is a test used to evaluate for hepatic encephalopathy (HE), a serious complication of liver cirrhosis. Regular screening for HE is recommended in all patients diagnosed with liver cirrhosis. However, this patient has no features (e.g., lethargy, confusion, disorientation, slurred speech, asterixis) of HE and has an unremarkable neurological examination.

**C - Echocardiography** - Echocardiography is used to evaluate for alcoholic cardiomyopathy, a common complication of long-term heavy alcohol use that leads to congestive heart failure (CHF). This patient has no symptoms (e.g., exertional dyspnea, ankle edema, angina pectoris) or physical examination findings (e.g., systolic murmur, S3 gallop, jugular venous distention, rales over both lung fields) of CHF. There are no recommendations to routinely screen for cardiomyopathy in asymptomatic patients with alcohol use disorder.

**D - Abdominal paracentesis and peritoneal fluid culture** - Abdominal paracentesis and peritoneal fluid culture are used to diagnose spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP), which almost exclusively occurs in patients with (typically decompensated) cirrhosis and ascites. Worsening ascites (i.e., progressive increase in abdominal circumference), abdominal discomfort, and nausea can be signs of SBP. However, patients with this condition typically also present with signs of infection (e.g., fever, tachycardia, tachypnea), diffuse abdominal pain, and a change in mental status.

