### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Repeat abdominal ultrasound in 6 months** - Abdominal ultrasound is a non-invasive method for HCC surveillance in patients who have yet to develop clear signs of neoplasia. The universal 6-month interval is based on the typical rate of HCC tumor growth and is independent of the patient's individual risk. In addition to ultrasound surveillance, all patients with alcoholic cirrhosis should undergo screening endoscopy to look for esophageal varices and determine the risk of variceal bleeding.

Image File: 646-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_543653e482556.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Measure serum α-fetoprotein levels in 3 months** - α-Fetoprotein (AFP) is a tumor marker for HCC, but it has a low sensitivity and specificity and is not recommended as a sole screening method for HCC. It can, however, be used in combination with abdominal ultrasonography. Moderately elevated AFP is not specific for HCC because it can occur in benign conditions such as cirrhosis and hepatitis as well as in pregnancy and gonadal tumors. However, levels > 500 ng/mL are diagnostic of HCC.

**B - Repeat upper endoscopy in 3 months** - All patients diagnosed with alcoholic cirrhosis should undergo a screening endoscopy to look for the presence of esophageal varices. If the first endoscopy shows no evidence of varices in patients with compensated cirrhosis, as in this patient, then a repeat endoscopy is recommended after 3 years, not 3 months. Yearly endoscopy screening is recommended in patients with decompensated cirrhosis or who are diagnosed with esophageal varices on the first screening EGD.

**C - Administer hepatitis A vaccine now** - An acute hepatitis infection can precipitate liver failure and increase the risk of mortality in patients with chronic liver disease (CLD). Therefore, all patients with CLD should be immunized against hepatitis A and hepatitis B. However, the presence of Anti-HAV IgG on this patient's serology indicates that he has already been adequately immunized against hepatitis A. Administration of hepatitis B vaccine is recommended in this patient as his serology for anti-HBs antibody indicates that he has not yet been immunized against HBV infection.

**D - Obtain CT scan of the abdomen now** - CT scans are not the primary screening tool for early detection of HCC in patients with cirrhosis because they expose the patient to radiation, are not specific (high false-positive rates), and expensive. However, a contrast-enhanced CT scan is indicated when a suspicious nodule > 1 cm is detected on ultrasonography in a patient with cirrhosis.

**F - Perform liver biopsy now** - Liver biopsy provides definitive evidence of HCC in a patient with a suspicious lesion on imaging. However, a biopsy is not used as a screening tool, as it is an invasive procedure that carries a risk of hemorrhage and tumor spread. Moreover, in most high-risk patients, including those with cirrhosis, HCC can usually be diagnosed noninvasively on imaging alone. Finally, this patient's ultrasonography shows a nodular liver, which is consistent with his diagnosis of alcoholic cirrhosis, but no features suspicious of HCC.

