### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Decreased renal perfusion** - This patient with decompensated liver cirrhosis most likely has hepatorenal syndrome. As portal hypertension worsens in patients with decompensated cirrhosis, vasodilatory mediators are produced, leading to vasodilation of the splanchnic circulation. The altered hemodynamics result in renal hypoperfusion, which in turn causes a decrease in GFR. Patients typically present with gradual loss of kidney function, as seen in this patient who developed oliguria over a period of 1 month, an unremarkable urine sediment, and FENa < 1% and BUN/Cr ratio > 20. Treatment of this condition includes administration of albumin, octreotide, and midodrine. A liver transplant is the only curative option in advanced liver disease.

Image File: 647-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d766f5134a7e.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Renal interstitial inflammation** - Inflammation of the renal interstitium is seen in tubulointerstitial diseases, including allergic interstitial nephritis (AIN), which is caused by hypersensitivity reaction to drugs, such as penicillins, cephalosporins, NSAIDs, and allopurinol. AIN typically manifests within days or weeks after initiating treatment with flank pain, hematuria, and fever, which is not consistent with this patient's presentation. Urinalysis usually shows hematuria, pyuria, and eosinophiluria. Moreover, this patient's ceftriaxone use was two months ago, so it is unlikely to cause interstitial inflammation now.

**B - Immune-mediated mesangial proliferation** - Immune-mediated mesangial proliferation is characteristic of membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN), which is commonly associated with HCV infection. It typically results in nephrotic syndrome but can also present with nephritic syndrome, so varying degree of proteinuria, hematuria, edema, and hypertension would be expected. Elevated creatinine levels and reduced urine output, as seen in this patient, can occur. However, urinalysis would show heavy proteinuria (> 3.5 g/24h) and fatty casts with or without hematuria as well, while this patient's urinalysis is unremarkable.

**C - Renal vein thrombosis** - Renal vein thrombosis is a complication of hypercoagulable state and typically presents with flank pain and hematuria, as well as anuria and elevated creatinine levels if bilateral thrombosis occurs. Patients with cirrhosis, as in this case, typically have impaired production of clotting factors and fibrinolytic factors, thrombocytopenia and/or platelet dysfunction, as well as altered blood flow, which puts them at risk of both bleeding and thrombosis, respectively. This patient has a low platelet count and a prolonged prothrombin time, which, in conjunction with the unremarkable renal ultrasound, make this an unlikely diagnosis.

**E - Renal tubular injury** - Renal tubular injury can result in acute tubular necrosis (ATN), which can develop in patients with cirrhosis secondary to exposure to a nephrotoxin (e.g., aminoglycosides, contrast agent) or a period of ischemia (e.g., sepsis or bleeding with a decrease in blood pressure). ATN typically presents with signs of AKI, so oliguria and elevated creatinine and BUN levels are consistent with this diagnosis. However, these findings generally develop much more rapidly than in this patient, and urinalysis would show granular epithelial cell casts and renal tubular epithelial cells. Lastly, as the most common form of intrinsic AKI, ATN can be distinguished from prerenal AKI and this patient's condition using the fractional excretion of sodium (FENa). Intrinsic AKI is associated with a FeNa > 1% because the damaged tubules are unable to reabsorb sodium sufficiently.

**F - Renal microvascular thrombi** - Renal microvascular thrombi can be seen in thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), which is an important differential to consider in patients with altered mental status, signs of acute kidney injury, anemia, and thrombocytopenia. Although TTP can occur in association with systemic diseases and infections, an association to hepatitis C has not been established. The clinical presentation is generally much more abrupt and severe than in this patient and is characterized by a pentad of findings: neurological symptoms (e.g., altered mental state, seizure, coma), fever, proteinuria, hematuria, renal failure, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, and thrombocytopenia with bleeding manifestations (petechiae, bleeding gums, occult GI bleeding).

