### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - "Your child's symptoms are suggestive of separation anxiety disorder. I would recommend a specific form of psychotherapy called parent-child interaction therapy."** - This patient's signs and symptoms (nightmares about the theme of separation from her father, abdominal pain when she is or is about to be separated from her father, reluctance to go to sleep when separated from her father) are suggestive of separation anxiety disorder. This condition often develops after a stressful life event, such as the death of a relative, and is characterized by developmentally inappropriate fear or anxiety concerning separation from major attachment figures, which impairs normal functioning and persists for more than 4 weeks. Parent-child interaction therapy is indicated in patients younger than 7 years old; cognitive behavioral therapy is the most appropriate therapy in patients older than 7 years of age.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - "Your child's symptoms are suggestive of somatic symptom disorder. I need to schedule regular follow-up visits with her."** - Somatic symptom disorder manifests with somatic symptoms (e.g., recurrent abdominal pain) that result in significant impairment of daily life, as seen in this patient. It is important to schedule follow-ups for individuals with somatic symptom disorder to establish a therapeutic alliance. However, in this condition, symptoms do not typically have a diurnal pattern (e.g., abdominal pain in the morning and in kindergarten) and nightmares are uncommon. Finally, this condition is diagnosed when the somatic symptoms persist beyond 6 months; this patient's symptoms started only 2 months ago.

**B - "Your child's symptoms are suggestive of pathological grief. I would recommend a specific form of psychotherapy called cognitive behavioral therapy."** - Pathological grief develops in response to the death of a loved one and can manifest with psychogenic physical symptoms (e.g., abdominal pain) that impair social functioning. This condition can occur at any age older than 1 year of age and cognitive behavioral therapy is a possible treatment option. However, pathological grief is characterized by persistent yearning for and preoccupation with the deceased (in children often expressed through themes of play), which this patient does not have. Moreover, in children, pathological grief is diagnosed only when the grieving process persists beyond 6 months; this patient's symptoms started only 2 months ago. Finally, this patient would be too young for CBT, as this therapy is appropriate only when cognitive development is more mature (generally over 7 years of age).

**C - "Your child's symptoms do not appear to have a clear cause. I would recommend additional investigations including a complete blood count and an abdominal ultrasound."** - This patient has chronic abdominal pain without signs or symptoms that raise concern for an underlying somatic pathology (e.g., involuntary weight loss, bloody diarrhea, unexplained fever). Physical examination, serum tissue transglutaminase IgA testing, urinalysis, and a stool test for occult blood did not show any abnormalities. This patient's abdominal pain is most likely psychogenic and related to her other symptoms (nightmares, anxiety if her father is not near her). In children with chronic abdominal pain without additional alarming symptoms, further investigations rarely change the management of the patient and are therefore not necessary.

**D - "Your child's symptoms are a normal reaction to her mother's death. Her symptoms will most likely subside over time and she does not require any treatment."** - Normal bereavement can manifest with psychogenic physical symptoms (e.g., recurrent abdominal pain) in the first few months after the loss of a loved one, and would not need any treatment. However, this patient's significant functional impairment when being without her father suggests a different diagnosis. Moreover, while individuals with normal bereavement may have nightmares, these are usually about the deceased.

**E - "Your child's symptoms are considered normal for her age. Her symptoms will most likely subside over time and she does not require any treatment."** - This patient's signs and symptoms could be developmentally appropriate for a child between 8 months and 4 years of age. However, this girl is 5 years old; her symptoms are developmentally inappropriate and cause significant functional impairment, indicating the need for treatment.

