### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Positive anti-smooth muscle antibodies** - The presence of serum anti-smooth muscle antibodies (ASMA) has a specificity of 80% for the diagnosis of type 1 autoimmune hepatitis. Additional laboratory abnormalities in autoimmune hepatitis often include positive antinuclear antibody (ANA) and increased serum IgG. It is associated with other autoimmune conditions, such as Hashimoto's thyroiditis in this patient.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Elevated serum alpha-fetoprotein** - Although not specific, the presence of an elevated serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) in this patient would be suggestive of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). While her symptoms could also be seen with HCC, she has no risk factors (chronic hepatitis virus infection, chronic alcohol use, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease) and her biopsy results are not consistent with this diagnosis.

**C - Positive anti-mitochondrial antibodies** - The presence of anti-mitochondrial antibodies (AMA) is classically associated with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). While her symptoms and biopsy results could also be seen with PBC, she lacks the symptoms and findings of a cholestatic process (e.g., jaundice, pruritus) that are typical for PBC.

**D - Decreased serum ceruloplasmin concentration** - The presence of a decreased serum ceruloplasmin concentration in this patient would be suggestive of Wilson disease. While her symptoms could also be seen with Wilson disease, she lacks additional findings to support this diagnosis (neurologic symptoms, Kayser-Fleischer rings). Liver histology may also show necrosis as seen in this patient, but the use of copper staining would show elevated hepatic copper content.

**E - Positive HBV surface antigen** - The presence of hepatitis B surface antigen suggests acute or chronic infection with hepatitis B virus (HBV). While her symptoms could also be seen with HBV infection, she has no risk factors for HBV infection (e.g., IV drug use, multiple sexual partners), nor is it associated with Hashimoto thyroiditis.

**F - Elevated serum transferrin saturation** - The presence of an elevated transferrin saturation in this patient would be suggestive of hemochromatosis; a transferrin saturation > 50% is ∼90% specific for this diagnosis. While her symptoms could also be seen with hemochromatosis, she lacks additional findings to support this diagnosis (hyperpigmented skin, diabetes, arthralgias) and liver histology in hemochromatosis would most often show pronounced siderosis with iron deposits in hepatocytes.

**G - Positive perinuclear anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies** - The presence of pANCA is associated with several autoimmune conditions and in this clinical context would be suggestive of a diagnosis of primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC). While her symptoms could also be seen with PSC, she lacks the symptoms and findings of a cholestatic process (e.g., jaundice, pruritus) that are typical for PSC. Additionally, liver biopsy in PSC usually would demonstrate inflammation of the biliary duct epithelium, with eventual development of portal and periportal fibrosis.

**H - Positive anti-HCV antibodies** - The presence of anti-hepatitis C virus antibodies are found in individuals who have been exposed to hepatitis C virus (HCV). While her symptoms could also be seen with HCV infection, she has no risk factors (e.g., IV drug use, multiple sexual partners), nor is it associated with Hashimoto thyroiditis.

