### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Perform large-volume paracentesis** - This patient has refractory ascites, which either occurs despite low-sodium diet and adequate diuretic (e.g., spironolactone, furosemide) dosing, or recurs rapidly after large-volume paracentesis is performed. Serial large-volume paracentesis (> 5 L removal) is indicated for the treatment of refractory ascites that has not responded to adequate doses of diuretics. As a colloid that is used to expand plasma volume, albumin should also be considered in patients undergoing large-volume paracentesis to prevent complications (e.g., electrolyte abnormalities).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Refer for transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt** - Placement of a transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt can be considered in patients with refractory ascites. The TIPS procedure lowers portal pressure and prevents accumulation of ascites. Patients receiving TIPS are at increased risk of developing hepatic encephalopathy due to toxin build-up in the systemic circulation, and heart failure because shunting increases circulatory preload. This patient already has signs of grade I-II hepatic encephalopathy and a depressed ejection fraction, making him a poor candidate for TIPS.

**B - Start oral norfloxacin** - Norfloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic that can be used both as primary prophylaxis against spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP) in patients with ascites and as secondary prophylaxis in patients with a prior episode of SBP. This patient does not have a history of SBP and does not meet the criteria for primary prophylaxis (impaired renal function or Child-Pugh Score ≥ 9 with bilirubin ≥ 3 mg/dL).

**C - Refer for liver transplantation** - Liver transplantation should be considered as the definitive treatment in this patient with cirrhosis complicated by refractory ascites, which carries a poor prognosis. The MELD score can be used to prioritize patients being considered for liver transplant. However, this patient's score would be quite low given his normal creatinine, bilirubin, INR, and sodium levels. A less-invasive therapy should be considered in this patient.

**D - Refer for peritoneovenous shunt** - Surgical peritoneovenous shunts are no longer used for the treatment of refractory ascites as they are associated with frequent complications and have not been shown to have a survival benefit.

**E - Change propranolol to carvedilol** - Propranolol is generally considered safe in patients with ascites and some studies show a survival benefit. However, high doses of propranolol should not be used in patients with renal dysfunction or hypotension and its use should be carefully considered in patients with refractory ascites. The use of beta blockers, such as carvedilol, in patients with cirrhosis and refractory ascites is controversial. Carvedilol is associated with higher risk of mortality and should therefore not be used in patients with refractory ascites.

**F - Start oral losartan** - Angiotensin receptor blockers, such as losartan, should be avoided in patients with cirrhosis and refractory ascites. The compensatory rise in angiotensin is critical to maintaining adequate blood pressure in patients with cirrhosis, and blocking the RAAS system can lead to hypotension and renal failure. Although this patient's blood pressure is still in the normal range, he is at high risk of developing complications from his cirrhosis. Losartan is not recommended.

