### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Positioning therapy** - Regurgitation and vomiting of food in an otherwise healthy infant is suggestive of benign gastroesophageal reflux, which is caused mainly by a transitory insufficiency of the lower esophageal sphincter. Maintaining an upright position shortly after feeding and avoiding sitting or supine positions significantly improves symptoms. Since the condition is benign and resolves spontaneously in the majority of cases, no other treatment is needed.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Esophageal pH monitoring** - Esophageal pH monitoring for 24 hours is indicated to confirm cases of nonerosive gastroesophageal reflux disease that show no erosions on upper endoscopy (NERD). In infants, GERD can also present with regurgitation and vomiting; however, additional symptoms include poor appetite (e.g., refusal to feed, weight loss, failure to thrive), abdominal pain/discomfort, and chronic cough. which are not present in this patient.

**B - Upper endoscopy** - Upper endoscopy in children can be indicated for a number of reasons, including suspected gastroesophageal reflux disease, gastritis, bowel obstruction, coagulopathies, and ingestion of caustic agents. Symptoms suggestive of a pathology in the upper gastrointestinal tract include (bilious) vomiting, hematemesis, melena, and abdominal distention. This infant, however, shows no signs of abdominal pain or failure to thrive to justify an upper endoscopy.

**C - Ultrasound of the abdomen** - An ultrasound of the abdomen in infants with a history of repeated vomiting is indicated to rule out intussusception and hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. Characteristic findings of these conditions are not present in the infant. Intussusception presents primarily with vomiting, sudden screaming or crying, as well as tenderness and a sausage-shaped mass in the RUQ on palpation. The invaginated bowel portion is visible as a target sign on ultrasound. Hypertrophic pyloric stenosis presents with projectile vomiting occurring immediately after feeding and an enlarged, palpable pylorus in the epigastrium, which is also visible on ultrasound.

Image File: 653-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e4a49f2c2624.jpg

**D - Pantoprazole therapy** - Pantoprazole is indicated as medical therapy for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). In infants, GERD can also present with regurgitation and vomiting, however, additional likely symptoms include poor appetite (e.g., refusal to feed, weight loss, failure to thrive), abdominal pain/discomfort, and chronic cough. Furthermore, the first-line pharmacological approach in pediatric GERD would be H2-receptor blockers, not PPIs.

**E - A diet free of cow's milk** - A diet free of cow's milk is indicated in children with cow's milk allergy, which causes food protein-induced proctocolitis. Affected infants typically pass stools tinged with blood and mucus but otherwise appear healthy. Since this infant has no history of bloody stools, a cow's milk-free diet is not necessary.

**G - X-ray of the abdomen** - An x-ray of the abdomen in an infant with repeated vomiting can be indicated to rule out conditions such as intussusception, necrotizing enterocolitis, and intestinal obstructions (e.g., meconium ileus, Hirschsprung disease). Possible symptoms include bilious vomiting, constipation, abdominal distention and tenderness. Since this patient has no history of constipation and shows no abnormalities on physical examination, an x-ray is not indicated.

