### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Gastrointestinal bleeding** - Upper gastrointestinal tract hemorrhage is the most common complication in patients with peptic ulcer disease. This patient should undergo upper endoscopy to confirm the diagnosis (visual and tissue diagnosis) and assess the bleeding risk. Gastric ulcers with a visible blood vessel at the base are more likely to bleed due to erosion, which is why endoscopic interventions (e.g., clipping) are usually performed prophylactically and/or therapeutically.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Malignant transformation** - Malignant transformation of gastric ulcers occurs in approx. 5–10% of patients with peptic ulcer disease (PUD). However, this is not the most common complication associated with PUD.

**B - Biliary tract infection** - Biliary tract infection such as ascending cholangitis is a complication of bile stasis due to chronic biliary tract obstruction, which is most commonly the result of stones. This patient's BMI increases his risk of developing cholelithiasis or choledocholithiasis (due to cholesterol stone formation), which can lead to ascending cholangitis. However, he lacks characteristic features of ascending cholangitis such as fever, jaundice, and right upper quadrant abdominal pain.

**C - Gastric perforation** - Perforation is the second most common complication of PUD and is more likely to occur in duodenal ulcers compared to gastric ulcers. Proton pump inhibitors, which are most commonly indicated in the treatment of gastric ulcers, significantly lower the risk of perforation. Risk factors for peptic ulcer perforation include advanced age (> 60 years), smoking, use of NSAIDs, and H. pylori infection.

**D - Pseudocyst formation** - Pseudocyst formation is a complication of pancreatitis and most commonly appears 4 weeks after the onset of symptoms. Although this patient's drinking history is a risk factor for pancreatitis, postprandial epigastric pain is not characteristic of this condition. In addition, acute pancreatitis typically presents with increased lipase levels (3 times the upper limit of normal) and sudden, severe abdominal pain that radiates to the back, neither of which are seen in this patient.

**E - Intestinal fistula formation** - The penetration of an ulcer into an adjacent organ is a rare complication of peptic ulcer disease. In rare cases, a gastric ulcer on the greater curvature of the stomach (an uncommon location) can penetrate into the colon, resulting in a gastrocolic fistula. A fistula would present with diarrhea, nausea, and particularly foul-smelling vomit (due to fecal matter in the stomach), none of which this patient reports.

**F - Pyloric scarring** - Gastric outlet obstruction (GOO) is an uncommon complication of peptic ulcer disease (PUD). Scarring of a chronic peptic ulcer or edema and inflammation of an acute peptic ulcer can cause GOO. However, advances in the medical management of PUD (i.e., treatment with proton pump inhibitors; antibiotics for H. pylori infection) have significantly decreased the incidence of GOO due to PUD.

**H - Subhepatic abscess formation** - A subhepatic abscess may develop secondary to a perforated peptic ulcer. Gastric ulcers are less likely to perforate compared to duodenal ulcers, making it very unlikely that this patient will develop a subhepatic abscess as a complication of his PUD.

