### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Norovirus** - This patient presents with gastroenteritis caused by norovirus, which usually manifests with nausea, acute-onset vomiting, watery, non-bloody diarrhea, and abdominal cramps following an incubation period of 12–48 hours. Because norovirus is transmitted fecal‑orally, the woman might have contracted the illness from eating contaminated food or water or contact with contaminated surfaces. Transmission through person‑to‑person contact or airborne droplets is also possible. Because the virus is very virulent, infected individuals are highly contagious during the acute phase and up to 72 hours following onset of symptoms.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Yersinia enterocolitica** - Yersinia enterocolitica causes yersiniosis when contaminated milk and pork are ingested and may also present with nausea, and diarrhea after an incubation period of 0–6 days. However, yersiniosis typically causes bloody diarrhea, fever, and abdominal tenderness in the right lower quadrant, which may mimic appendicitis. Also, this patient is vegan (which means she does not consume animal products), making an infection with Yersinia enterocolitica unlikely.

**B - Shigella dysenteriae** - Shigella dysenteriae causes shigellosis, which may also present with diarrhea 1–3 days after ingestion of contaminated food or water. However, shigellosis typically leads to enteric inflammation, mucosal damage, and mucoid-bloody diarrhea. Patients also usually have fever. This patient has none of these findings.

**C - Staphylococcus aureus** - Staphylococcus aureus is a common organism causing food poisoning due to ingestion of preformed exotoxins that S. aureus produces in contaminated food (e.g., canned meats, mayonnaise). However, S. aureus typically causes a rapid onset of nausea and vomiting 1–3 hours after ingestion. This patient predominantly presents with diarrhea and her symptoms have only started one day after eating out.

**D - Rotavirus** - While rotavirus gastroenteritis may also present with vomiting, diarrhea, and malaise after an incubation period of 1–3 days, it is usually associated with fever, more severe watery diarrhea (> 10 watery stools within 24 hours) and dehydration. Moreover, it is much more common in infants and children in countries that have not adopted universal use of rotavirus vaccines.

**E - Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli** - Enterotoxigenic E. coli (ETEC) is the most common cause of traveler's diarrhea, which can be acquired when traveling to countries or regions with poor water and food hygiene. While ETEC may also present with watery diarrhea, abdominal cramping, nausea, and possibly vomiting after an incubation period of 9 hours to 3 days, the vignette does not mention recent travel.

**F - Salmonella enteriditis** - Salmonella enteritidis can invade the intestinal mucosa in infected individuals and cause salmonellosis, which may also present with watery stools, nausea, and vomiting after an incubation period of about 6–48 hours. However, salmonellosis is usually associated with high-grade fever and inflammatory (watery-bloody) diarrhea, which are missing in this patient. Because Salmonella enteritidis is typically transmitted by the ingestion of poultry, poorly pasteurized eggs, and milk, an infection is unlikely in this vegan patient who does not consume animal products.

**H - Vibrio vulnificus** - Vibrio vulnificus can be transmitted through ingestion of undercooked seafood (e.g., contaminated oysters) and may also cause vomiting and diarrhea. However, this patient is vegan (which means she does not consume animal products), suggesting an infection with a different organism.

**I - Bacillus cereus** - Bacillus cereus is a common source of food poisoning after ingestion of reheated rice. B. cereus produces enterotoxin I, which leads to nausea and vomiting ∼ 30 minutes to 6 hours after ingestion. It also produces enterotoxin II, which leads to watery diarrhea ∼ 6–15 hours after ingestion. The time frame of both toxins does not correspond to this patient's symptoms, which developed 24 hours after eating out. Furthermore, the patient does not report eating reheated nor refrigerated food (e.g., rice).

