### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - IgA tissue transglutaminase antibodies** - Testing for IgA tissue transglutaminase antibodies is the gold standard for diagnosing celiac disease. The exact role of the antibody in the pathophysiology of celiac disease is unknown; in addition to the initial diagnosis, an antibody test is also useful for follow-up. Antibody levels start to decline and usually normalize within 3–12 months following the introduction of a gluten-free diet. Although this patient's age is uncommon for celiac disease (usually is diagnosed in early childhood or between 20–40 years of age), the condition can occur at any age.

Image File: 660-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ee380ebc738f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Multinucleated trophozoites in stool** - Multinucleated trophozoites in stool are characteristic of giardia infection, which can also cause abdominal pain, watery diarrhea, and malabsorption. However, the infection tends to self-resolve within a few weeks, and this patient has no history that indicates exposure to the waterborne parasite (e.g., drinking river water while camping). Giardia infection is not associated with dermatitis herpetiformis

**B - Increased serum lipase** - Increased serum lipase is typically seen in acute pancreatitis, which can also present with abdominal pain. The classic presentation is severe epigastric pain that radiates toward the back, worsening after meals; colicky episodes are present when caused by gallstones. Instead of diarrhea, acute pancreatitis can result in ileus (due to inflammation), fever, and a distended or elastic abdomen on palpation. Finally, this patient has no risk factors for acute pancreatitis such as a history of gallstones, alcohol abuse, medication use, viral infections, or congenital disease.

**C - Inflammation of the terminal ileum** - Inflammation of the terminal ileum is a hallmark feature of Crohn's disease, which can also present with abdominal pain, symptoms of malabsorption, and dermatologic diseases (e.g., erythema nodosum, acrodermatitis enteropathica). However, it is not associated with dermatitis herpetiformis.

**D - Esophageal webs** - Esophageal webs occur in Plummer-Vinson syndrome, which is also associated with iron deficiency anemia (can cause conjunctival palor). However, this disease is not associated with dermatitis herpetiformis, as seen here. Also, patients with Plummer-Vinson syndrome usually present with dysphagia, burning sensations of the tongue, and may also have an atrophic and smooth tongue on exam.

**E - PAS-positive macrophages** - PAS-positive macrophages within the mucosa of the small intestine are the diagnostic hallmark of Whipple's disease. Although patients with Whipple's disease may also experience abdominal pain and malabsorption, this condition is primarily found in middle-aged men following infection withTropheryma whipplei, and it is not associated with dermatitis herpetiformis.

**G - Positive hydrogen breath test** - The hydrogen breath test would be positive in patients with lactose intolerance. Although this patient may be consuming dairy products that could cause her abdominal discomfort and loose stools if she has lactose intolerance, the condition is not associated with the skin rash described in this patient.

**H - Oocysts on acid-fast stain** - Oocysts on acid-fast stain are characteristic of Cryptosporidium infection. Cryptosporidium infection can cause watery diarrhea, but the infection is usually self-limited in immunocompetent hosts and resolves within 1–2 weeks. It is not associated with dermatitis herpetiformis.

