### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Pancreatic abscess** - Pancreatic abscess is a late complication of acute necrotizing pancreatitis. It commonly presents more than 4 weeks after an episode of acute pancreatitis with fever and a tender abdomen as seen in this patient. The complex cystic collection on ultrasound is most likely purulent material within a fibrous capsule. Pancreatic abscess requires surgical drainage.

Image File: 663-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_535fb7e03d206.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Pancreatic pseudocyst** - A pancreatic pseudocyst is a complication of acute or chronic pancreatitis. While pseudocysts commonly present with a tender abdomen as seen in this case, the patient has no palpable mass. Ultrasound of a pseudocyst shows an anechoic or hypoechoic, smooth, round structure– not a complex cystic collection as with this patient. They usually lie outside the pancreas.

Image File: 663-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_613743952da85.jpg

**C - Pancreatic cancer** - While pancreatic cancer can present with epigastric pain and malaise, the presence of fever and leukocytosis make it less likely. On ultrasound it typically presents as a hypoechoic solid mass with irregular margins and often causes obstructive jaundice with dilated bile ducts. The most common symptom of pancreatic cancer is unexplained weight loss, which is not seen in this patient.

**D - Acute cholangitis** - Cholangitis refers to inflammation of the bile duct most commonly due to an ascending infection from the duodenum. Acute cholangitis after undergoing cholecystectomy, as this patient did, is uncommon but can occur because of a retained stone in the bile duct. Cholangitis also presents with fever, leukocytosis, and epigastric pain. However, it almost always causes hyperbilirubinemia, which is absent in this patient. In addition, there are no abnormalities of the bile ducts on ultrasound.

**E - ERCP-induced pancreatitis** - Pancreatitis is the most common complication of an ERCP. It presents with abdominal pain and raised amylase and lipase levels as seen above. However, it occurs within 24–48 hours of the ERCP and not after a month.

