### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Refer for ambulatory surgical repair** - This patient presents with a symptomatic, incarcerated umbilical hernia, which is more commonly seen in women and is usually an acquired condition that results from increased intraabdominal pressure (e.g., due to pregnancy). Although most reducible hernias manifest as an asymptomatic, nontender mass, they can become symptomatic, especially if the fascial defect has a narrow neck, as is the case in umbilical hernias. This patient has no evidence of acute complications on physical examination (e.g., warmth, erythema, guarding) or from the abdominal CT scan (e.g., strangulation, bowel obstruction, perforation), and her umbilical hernia is reducible following sufficient analgesics. Therefore, she does not require an emergent surgical repair. Because of the increased risk of recurrence and associated complications, all patients with reducible or incarcerated umbilical hernias should undergo elective ambulatory surgical repair.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Prescibe analgesics and a hernia truss** - A hernia truss is used to externally compress a hernia after complete reduction. It can be considered for the treatment of inguinal hernias in men. This woman, however, has an umbilical hernia, for which a truss is not indicated. Prescribing analgesics is also not indicated because her pain resolved after manual reduction.

**B - Perform emergency open surgical repair** - An emergency open surgical repair is indicated for all patients with an acutely complicated umbilical hernia (e.g., strangulation, bowel obstruction, perforation), which manifests with diffuse abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, guarding, and rebound tenderness. This patient presents with a symptomatic incarcerated hernia without signs of strangulation or bowel obstruction on her abdominal CT scan. Because her umbilical hernia is reducible following sufficient analgesics, emergency surgical repair is not indicated.

**C - Administer empiric antibiotic therapy** - Administration of empiric antibiotic therapy would be appropriate if this patient had a strangulated or perforated umbilical hernia. However, she has no evidence of bowel obstruction, strangulation, or perforation on physical examination or on abdominal CT scan. Therefore, the use of antibiotics is not indicated at this point.

**D - Discharge and schedule follow-up** - Patients with very small and asymptomatic umbilical hernias can be discharged and observed without further intervention, especially if the patient does not want to undergo surgery. Because this patient presented with a symptomatic, incarcerated umbilical hernia, further management is necessary to prevent recurrence and future complications (e.g., strangulation, bowel obstruction, perforation).

