### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Right upper quadrant abdominal ultrasound** - This patient presents with clinical features of acute pancreatitis supported by laboratory evidence. After IV hydration, the next step is to evaluate the cause to plan further treatment and prevent recurrence. The most common cause of acute pancreatitis in the United States is biliary pancreatitis. Abdominal ultrasonography is a highly sensitive imaging modality for detecting gallstones in the biliary and pancreatic duct and should be performed in all patients presenting with acute pancreatitis.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Esophagogastroduodenoscopy** - An EGD is not indicated for suspected acute pancreatitis but in patients > 55 years of age with suspected peptic ulcer disease or those with any alarm symptoms (i.e., weight loss, anemia, hematemesis, dysphagia). Although PUD typically causes epigastric pain, as seen in this patient, the pain is usually insidious in onset, intermittent, exacerbated by meals, and does not radiate to the back. Examination would not show epigastric guarding unless there were a perforation, in which case guarding would be diffuse and be accompanied by rebound tenderness.

**B - Contrast-enhanced abdominal CT scan** - An abdominal CECT scan is indicated for suspected acute pancreatitis only when the diagnosis is uncertain (e.g., minimally elevated pancreatic enzymes, non-specific symptoms) or if there are suspected complications such as necrotizing pancreatitis or pancreatic abscess (e.g., persistent fever and leukocytosis, no clinical improvement or evidence of organ failure > 48–72 hours of therapy). Furthermore, CECT scan is only moderately sensitive in evaluating the cause of acute pancreatitis.

**D - Plain x-ray of the abdomen** - A plain x-ray of the abdomen and a chest x-ray are recommended as an initial imaging modality in patients with acute abdomen with suspected bowel perforation or intestinal obstruction. An x-ray is not, however, the preferred imaging modality to confirm the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis, which this patient most likely has, nor to evaluate the underlying etiology.

**E - Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography** - Urgent ERCP and sphincterotomy (within 24 hours of symptom onset) is recommended in acute pancreatitis only when there is evidence of choledocholithiasis (i.e., dilated CBD and/or stone in the CBD; elevated bilirubin, ALP, and GGT) and/or acute cholangitis (i.e., fever, jaundice, Murphy sign; leukocytosis, elevated bilirubin, ALP, and GGT). This patient requires further evaluation before a decision to perform ERCP can be made.

**F - Measure serum triglycerides** - Severe hypertriglyceridemia (i.e., levels usually > 1000 mg/dL) is the third most common cause of acute pancreatitis. Serum triglyceride levels should be evaluated in all patients presenting with their first episode of acute pancreatitis, as is the case here. As ingestion of food alters the serum levels of triglycerides, it should be assessed following a period of overnight fasting. Since this patient recently had a meal, evaluation of serum triglyceride levels would not be an appropriate next step.

**G - Blood alcohol level assay** - Alcohol consumption is one of the most common causes of acute pancreatitis. However, even in patients who present with a history of abdominal pain after/while consuming alcohol, another more common cause should first be ruled out to determine definitive treatment. Alcohol-induced pancreatitis is diagnosed based on a history of excessive alcohol consumption in patients with no evidence of other common etiologies.

