### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Misoprostol** - Misoprostol is contraindicated during pregnancy because it is associated with an increased risk of abortion and congenital malformations. Misoprostol is a prostaglandin (PGE1) analog that can prevent NSAID-induced peptic ulcer formation by increasing the production of the gastric mucus barrier and decreasing gastric acid secretion. In pregnancy, misoprostol can be used off-label for cervical ripening in labor induction and in combination with a progesterone antagonist for medical abortion.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pantoprazole** - Pantoprazole and other commonly used proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are safe to use throughout pregnancy and are a preferred treatment option for dyspepsia in pregnant women.

**C - Magnesium hydroxide** - Magnesium hydroxide neutralizes gastric acid in the stomach and also acts as an osmotic laxative. Taken orally, a small amount of magnesium is absorbed systemically into the maternal serum and is able to cross the placenta. However, no adverse fetal side effects associated with the oral intake of magnesium hydroxide have been reported, making it safe to use during pregnancy for the treatment of dyspepsia and/or constipation.

**D - Cimetidine** - Cimetidine is an H2-blocker that reduces gastric acid production. Although it crosses the placenta, no adverse fetal effects associated with the use of this drug have been reported. H2-blockers are a preferred treatment option for dyspepsia in pregnant women.

**E - Sucralfate** - Sucralfate acts by forming a protective barrier over the gastric/duodenal mucosa. Only a very small portion is absorbed and sucralfate can be used to treat dyspepsia throughout pregnancy.

