### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Loss of intestinal brush border** - This patient's history of intermittent, crampy abdominal pain, bloating, and nonbloody diarrhea after the consumption of milk-containing products is suggestive of lactase deficiency. Given this patient's history of gastroenteritis, her current condition is likely secondary to the loss of intestinal brush border due to mucosal damage following gastroenteritis. The inability to absorb lactose results in the passing of undigested, osmotically active lactose to the large intestine, where it retains water and leads to osmotic diarrhea. Other causes of secondary lactase deficiency include disorders of the small intestine (e.g., gluten-sensitive enteropathy, Crohn disease). Lactase deficiency can also be primary (most common type; more common during childhood and adolescence), developmental (in premature newborns), and congenital (due to genetic defect; very rare). Symptoms usually resolve with dietary lactose restriction.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Infection with Tropheryma whipplei** - Infection with Tropheryma whipplei causes Whipple disease, which manifests with diarrhea, abdominal pain, and bloating. However, symptoms in this condition are not exclusively associated with the consumption of milk-containing products and, instead, can occur with all types of food. Moreover, patients usually present with cardiac symptoms (e.g., due to valve insufficiency), arthralgia, and neurologic symptoms (e.g., myoclonia, ataxia, impairment of oculomotor function), none of which is seen here.

**B - Autoimmune-mediated intolerance to gliadin** - Autoimmune-mediated intolerance to gliadin causes celiac disease (CD), which also manifests with nonbloody diarrhea, abdominal pain, and bloating. Individuals with CD can have concomitant carbohydrate malabsorption and a positive hydrogen breathing test. Although CD is also a secondary cause of lactose intolerance, gastrointestinal symptoms in patients with CD are usually persistent rather than intermittent and occur with all types of gluten-containing food, not just milk-containing products.

**C - Bacterial overgrowth in the small intestine** - Small intestine bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) manifests with nonbloody diarrhea, abdominal pain, and bloating, all of which are seen in this patient. Furthermore, patients with SIBO often have a positive hydrogen breathing test as bacteria metabolize the carbohydrates present in the small intestine. However, symptoms in SIBO are not exclusively associated with the consumption of lactose-containing products but occur with all types of carbohydrates. Moreover, this patient does not have any predisposing conditions for SIBO (e.g., motility disorders, strictures, a surgery causing blind loop syndrome).

**D - Decreased pancreatic enzyme production** - Decreased pancreatic enzyme production is caused by exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, which can manifest with nonbloody diarrhea and abdominal bloating (both seen in this patient). However, these symptoms are not exclusively associated with the consumption of milk-containing products. Additionally, this patient does not have risk factors for pancreatic insufficiency (e.g., history of chronic pancreatitis, gallstones, cystic fibrosis).

**F - Allergic reaction to cow milk protein** - Allergic reaction to cow milk protein (cow milk allergy; CMA) causes diarrhea and abdominal pain after the consumption of milk or milk-containing foods, which is seen in this patient. CMA is also strongly associated with other atopic conditions (e.g., atopic dermatitis, asthma). However, CMA typically manifests during early childhood, not adulthood. Additionally, a positive hydrogen breathing test is not consistent with this diagnosis.

