### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Occlusion of a mesenteric artery** - An occlusion of a mesenteric artery causes acute mesenteric ischemia and subsequent bowel infarction. This patient's irregular pulse indicates atrial fibrillation, which predisposes individuals to developing atrial thrombi. Embolization of a left atrial thrombus is the most common cause of acute mesenteric ischemia. Thrombotic occlusion of a mesenteric vein (e.g., in patients with portal hypertension or hereditary thrombophilias) or mesenteric artery (e.g., in patients with atherosclerosis), and decreased blood flow to the mesenteric artery (e.g., in severe hypovolemia) are less common causes of acute mesenteric ischemia.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Inflammatory disease of the bowel wall** - Ulcerative colitis (UC), one of the two forms of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), can result in acute hematochezia (due to acute fulminant colitis), bowel distention (due to a toxic megacolon), and bowel perforation with peritonitis and septic shock. However, the large intestine rather than the small intestine is affected in UC and findings of bowel infarction, would not be expected on laparotomy. Crohn disease, the other form of IBD, can affect the small bowel and cause chronic mechanical bowel obstruction with intestinal distention as a result of strictures but does not typically cause an acute abdomen. Moreover, in both forms of IBD, patients would usually have a history of chronic gastrointestinal symptoms, which have not been reported by this patient.

**B - Inflammation of a diverticular pouch** - Perforation of an inflamed diverticular pouch (diverticulitis) can cause peritonitis and septic shock, both of which are seen here. Diverticulitis can also cause acute hematochezia. However, features of bowel infarction, which are seen during this patient's open laparotomy, are not expected; a laparotomy would instead show outpouching of the intestine wall typically in the sigmoid colon (most common location of intestinal diverticula). Moreover, patients with diverticulitis typically report localized abdominal pain (usually in the left lower quadrant) before the onset of diffuse abdominal pain from peritonitis.

**D - Invagination of a bowel segment** - Invagination of a bowel segment (intussusception) can cause bowel infarction, which is seen here. However, infarction of the bowel would be restricted to the telescoping segment; it would not affect multiple bowel loops as evidenced on this patient's laparotomy. Moreover, intussusception typically occurs in children, not elderly patients.

**E - Torsion of the bowel around its mesentery** - Torsion of the bowel around its mesentery (volvulus) can cause intestinal obstruction and bowel infarction (of the malrotated intestinal segment), both of which are seen here. However, small bowel volvulus is rare in the older population; it occurs primarily in children. In older individuals, volvulus typically affects the sigmoid colon.

**F - Constriction of hernial contents** - Constriction of hernial contents can lead to a strangulated hernia, causing bowel infarction, which is seen here. However, hernias manifest as a visible and palpable groin bulge on physical examination, which is not seen in this patient.

