### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Nasogastric tube placement and bowel rest** - A trial of conservative management is appropriate in all patients with mechanical SBO who have no indication for immediate intervention (i.e., no bowel ischemia, necrosis, or perforation), as in the present case. Although the patient presents with vomiting and abdominal distention, he is afebrile, hemodynamically stable, and displays no abdominal guarding or rebound tenderness, both of which would suggest peritonitis. Nonoperative management includes nasogastric tube placement for gastrointestinal decompression, fluid resuscitation, and electrolyte correction, as well as bowel rest. Serial abdominal examinations and laboratory studies should be obtained to monitor the patient carefully and assess for resolution. A trial of conservative management typically lasts 3 days. If symptoms do not improve, further imaging and definitive surgical management may be considered. Also, should the patient develop new symptoms (e.g., persistent pain, fever, leukocytosis, metabolic acidosis, or unstable vital signs) while receiving conservative management, he should be reevaluated for surgery.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ciprofloxacin and metronidazole** - An antibiotic regimen of ciprofloxacin and metronidazole has broad coverage including anaerobes and so is an appropriate empiric treatment for suspected intra-abdominal infections and peritonitis. Antibiotics may be indicated in the event of complications (i.e., bowel necrosis, infection, or perforation), or as prophylaxis prior to surgery in patients with SBO. Antibiotics are not indicated in cases of uncomplicated bowel obstruction, as in this patient, who is afebrile, hemodynamically stable, and shows no signs of peritonitis.

**B - CT scan of the abdomen with IV contrast** - CT abdomen with IV contrast can be helpful in the diagnosis and work-up of bowel obstructions in differentiating between functional and mechanical obstruction, pinpointing the location of the obstruction, determining its severity, and detecting potential causes (e.g., tumors). However, this patient's x-ray is diagnostic of SBO, and, given his prior history of intra-abdominal surgery, adhesions are the most likely etiology. While CT might be considered at a later time to further evaluate this patient's condition, taking steps to improve his condition would be more appropriate at this time.

**C - PEG placement and enteral feeding** - Enteral feeding with PEG placement is indicated in patients who require long-term nutrition support that bypasses segments of the upper gastrointestinal tract, e.g., following esophageal surgery. This patient has an uncomplicated mechanical SBO. Bowel rest is indicated, with possible parenteral nutrition if the obstruction persists for more than 10 days. Given the role of bowel rest in encouraging intestinal decompression, enteral feeding would not be appropriate, as it would instill nutrition into the intestine proximal to the site of obstruction and potentially worsen the patient's condition.

**D - Colonoscopy** - Colonoscopy may aid the diagnosis of large bowel obstruction (LBO) in cases where plain x-ray and abdominal CT are inconclusive. It is furthermore used to evaluation for a second, synchronous tumor when primary colorectal cancer is the suspected etiology of the LBO. However, this patient's x-ray is already diagnostic of SBO, and colonoscopy plays no role in the diagnosis of SBO. Furthermore, instillation of air during colonoscopy could be dangerous as it would increase intra-intestinal pressure and thus increase the risk of bowel perforation.

**E - Gastrografin enema** - A gastrografin enema would be most helpful to differentiate between a partial and complete obstruction of the large bowel, and can treat large bowel obstruction. While this patient presents with mechanical bowel obstruction, his abdominal x-ray shows obstruction of the small bowel rather than the large bowel. Imaging of a patient with a large bowel obstruction would demonstrate a distended colon, whereas this patient's x-ray shows dilated bowel loops without haustra in the central abdomen.

**G - Surgical bowel decompression** - Surgical bowel decompression is indicated for SBO with suspected strangulation leading to bowel ischemia, necrosis, perforation, or infection, as these are potentially life-threatening complications, and in cases with persistent or progressive pain. Although this patient has mechanical SBO, he is currently hemodynamically stable, afebrile, and has no signs of a peritonitis (e.g., guarding, rebound tenderness), so that surgical management is not indicated at this time.

