### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Eosinophilic esophagitis** - Dysphagia and heartburn refractory to proton pump inhibitors in a patient with a history of atopy (allergic rhinitis, asthma) suggest eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE). In addition, the findings of trachealization of the esophagus and erythematous longitudinal furrows on upper endoscopy are consistent with EoE. Individuals with EoE may also present with food impaction, reflux, and vomiting. An increased number of eosinophils (≥ 15 eosinophils/HPF) in esophageal biopsy samples confirms the diagnosis. Initial treatment of EoE includes avoidance of food triggers, topical glucocorticoids (e.g., PO fluticasone or PO budesonide), and mechanical dilation in the setting of esophageal stricture.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Esophageal candidiasis** - Dysphagia and heartburn refractory to proton pump inhibitors should raise concern for candida esophagitis. Candida esophagitis is most commonly seen in individuals who are immunocompromised (e.g., AIDS, immunosuppressant medication use). Although this patient's use of an inhaled corticosteroid increases the risk of oropharyngeal candidiasis, it is only rarely associated with esophageal candidiasis. Moreover, endoscopic evaluation of candida esophagitis would reveal white mucosal plaque-like lesions, which are not seen here.

Image File: 674-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5509529635811.jpg

**B - Gastroesophageal reflux disease** - Heartburn and dysphagia should raise concern for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). However, symptoms of GERD usually improve with proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy. GERD commonly affects the distal esophagus, which may be normal or show evidence of esophagitis; endoscopic evaluation of the upper esophagus is often normal.

Image File: 674-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60f46caa3d784.jpg

**C - Achalasia** - Dysphagia is seen in individuals with achalasia. Unlike in this patient, an endoscopic evaluation is typically normal or may show erythematous mucosa, dilated esophagus with retained food particles, and increased resistance of lower esophageal sphincter during passage with an endoscope. None of these findings is present here.

**D - Cytomegalovirus esophagitis** - Dysphagia and heartburn refractory to proton pump inhibitors raise concern for cytomegalovirus (CMV) esophagitis. CMV esophagitis most commonly manifests in immunocompromised individuals (e.g., AIDS, immunosuppressant medication use). Moreover, endoscopic evaluation of CMV esophagitis would show large linear ulcerations in the distal esophagus that are typically shallow, which are not seen here.

**E - Herpes esophagitis** - Dysphagia and heartburn refractory to proton pump inhibitors may be seen in patients with herpes (HSV) esophagitis. However, HSV esophagitis most commonly occurs in individuals who are immunocompromised (e.g., AIDS, immunosuppressant medication use). Also, endoscopic evaluation of HSV esophagitis would typically show vesicles and multiple small superficial round/ovoid ulcers in the mid and distal esophagus that may coalesce to form diffuse superficial ulcers, which are not seen here.

Image File: 674-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e79bd859ffcc.jpg

