### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Reassure the patient and follow-up** - Asymptomatic patients with a sliding (type I) hiatal hernia, as seen here, should be reassured and managed conservatively. Lifestyle modifications, including smoking cessation, alcohol cessation, and weight loss, should be discussed in all patients with hiatal hernia. If the patient develops symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), treatment with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) or histamine H2-receptor antagonists is indicated. Surgical repair is only necessary if the patient has persistent symptoms despite pharmacological treatment, is not willing or able to take PPIs long-term, or has severe symptoms/complications of GERD (e.g., bleeding, strictures, ulcerations).

Image File: 677-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5db07b888e613.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Repeat an endoscopic biopsy in one year** - Endoscopic surveillance every 12 months with biopsies is indicated in patients with endoscopic findings suggestive of Barrett esophagus and low-grade dysplasia. This patient's endoscopy, however, shows no evidence of Barrett metaplasia or dysplasia. Therefore, endoscopic follow-up in one year is not indicated.

**B - Recommend a laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication** - A laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication is indicated in patients with a type I hiatal hernia with persistent symptoms despite pharmacological treatment, symptomatic patients ineligible for pharmacological treatment, and patients with severe symptoms or complications of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD; e.g., bleeding, strictures, ulcerations) evident on endoscopy. This procedure is also often indicated in patients with type II, III, and IV hiatal hernias. However, this patient with a type I hiatal hernia is asymptomatic, and endoscopy shows no evidence of complications of GERD. A laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication is therefore not indicated.

**D - Recommend a transthoracic hernia repair** - Transthoracic hernia repair may be indicated in patients with paraesophageal hiatal hernias, especially in those with type IV hiatal hernias. Although this method has been largely replaced by the laparoscopic approach, it still plays role in select patients. However, this patient's endoscopy shows no evidence of paraesophageal herniation. This patient has an asymptomatic type I hiatal hernia, for which transthoracic hernia repair is not indicated.

**E - Initiate octreotide therapy** - Treatment with octreotide is typically used in variceal bleeding; however, it can also be used in patients with gastric angiodysplasia and recurrent bleeding as it diminishes the number of episodes of bleeding, the requirements for iron, and transfusion requirements. Although this patient had gastric angiodysplasia, she was treated endoscopically and has no findings suggestive of recurrent bleeding (e.g., symptoms of anemia due to chronic blood loss). Therefore, octreotide therapy is not indicated.

**F - Initiate pantoprazole therapy** - Initiating treatment with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) is indicated in patients with a type I hiatal hernia who have symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) or complications of GERD, such as endoscopic evidence of intestinal metaplasia (Barrett esophagus). However, this patient is asymptomatic and has no evidence suggestive of Barrett esophagus; therefore, treatment with a PPI is not indicated.

