### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Administer intravenous 0.9% saline solution** - The first step in the management of any child with severe dehydration (indicated by lethargy or capillary refill > 3 seconds) is intravenous rehydration with an isotonic crystalloid solution, e.g., 0.9% saline (normal saline). This patient's hypernatremia is due to hypovolemia and following initial resuscitation, the free water deficit can be calculated to determine further replacement.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Encourage oral rehydration** - Oral rehydration would be appropriate in a child with mild to moderate dehydration. However, since this patient's physical exam suggests severe dehydration, a different therapy is indicated.

**C - Administer oral loperamide** - Loperamide is an antidiarrheal agent that increases intestinal transit time. This patient's acute fever and watery diarrhea in the setting of ill contacts at daycare indicate rotavirus (since he has not been vaccinated) or norovirus infection. Antidiarrheal agents are not recommended in the treatment of children with infectious gastroenteritis because they can cause adverse effects (e.g., lethargy, paralytic ileus) and prolong the course of bacterial diarrheas (as a result of delayed transit time).

**D - Perform stool PCR for rotavirus antigen** - This patient's history of acute fever and watery diarrhea in the setting of ill contacts at daycare suggests rotavirus (since he has not been vaccinated) or norovirus infection. Stool PCR is the most sensitive test for rotavirus and could confirm the diagnosis, but this patient's severe dehydration requires a treatment before conducting diagnostic testing.

**E - Administer intravenous 0.45% saline solution** - This patient has hypovolemic hypernatremia secondary to severe dehydration from fluid losses related to his gastrointestinal illness. While hypotonic saline could be used at a later time to correct this patient's free water deficit, it would not be the initial treatment of choice.

**F - Administer intravenous 5% albumin** - IV albumin is a colloid solution used to generate oncotic pressure within the intravascular system and has a variety of clinical applications (e.g., SBP, refractory edema, cirrhosis, hepatorenal syndrome). While there could be some benefit for using albumin in the treatment of hypovolemia, it is not recommended for fluid resuscitation in children with dehydration.

**G - Administer intravenous 5% dextrose in water** - This patient has hypovolemic hypernatremia secondary to severe dehydration from fluid losses related to his gastrointestinal illness. While a hypotonic solution could be used at a later point to correct this patient's free water deficit, it would not be the initial fluid of choice.

