### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Cholescintigraphy (HIDA scan)** - Cholescintigraphy, also called hepatoiminodiacetic acid scintigraphy (HIDA scan), is the preferred imaging study in patients with both suspected uncomplicated acute cholecystitis and inconclusive findings on abdominal ultrasound, such as this woman. Technetium-99m, a tracer that is selectively secreted into the biliary tree, is injected intravenously and allows for visualization of the biliary tract. An obstructing gallstone and/or inflammatory edema impairs the filling of the gallbladder. The diagnosis is confirmed if the gallbladder cannot be visualized on imaging (i.e., lack of gallbladder filling) within 4 hours.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)** - Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is indicated in patients with choledocholithiasis, which can manifest similarly to this patient's clinical presentation. ERCP is the preferred imaging study to diagnose choledocholithiasis and is also therapeutic. However, choledocholithiasis classically causes increased concentrations of bilirubin and gamma-glutamyltransferase, neither of which is seen in this patient. Because this patient has suspected uncomplicated acute cholecystitis rather than choledocholithiasis, an alternative study is indicated.

**C - Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP)** - A magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) is used in the diagnosis of choledocholithiasis, which can manifest similarly to this patient's clinical presentation. However, choledocholithiasis classically causes increased serum concentrations of bilirubin and gamma-glutamyltransferase, neither of which are seen here. Because this patient has suspected uncomplicated acute cholecystitis rather than choledocholithiasis, an alternative study is indicated.

**D - Computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen** - A CT scan of the abdomen is an alternative imaging modality used to diagnose acute cholecystitis in patients who have inconclusive ultrasound results. CT scan is also used to evaluate possible complications of cholecystitis, such as hemorrhage, emphysematous cholecystitis, gallstone ileus, and gangrenous cholecystitis. However, another alternative study for diagnosing uncomplicated acute cholecystitis is indicated prior to CT.

**E - Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the abdomen** - MRI is an alternative imaging modality used to diagnose acute cholecystitis in patients who have inconclusive ultrasound results. MRI is especially useful for those who have a contraindication to CT scan (e.g., pregnancy, contrast allergy). However, another alternative study for diagnosing uncomplicated acute cholecystitis is indicated prior to MRI.

