### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Vitamin B3 (niacin)** - Vitamin B3 (niacin) deficiency results in a constellation of clinical findings known as pellagra, which can be remembered with the 4 D's: diarrhea, dermatitis, dementia, and/or death. Common causes of pellagra include insufficient niacin intake, chronic alcohol consumption (as is the case here), and carcinoid syndrome (due to consumption of tryptophan, an amino acid precursor of both serotonin and niacin). This patient's presentation is concerning for severe niacin deficiency, and urgent vitamin B3 supplementation is indicated to prevent further deterioration.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Vitamin B5 (panthothenic acid)** - While vitamin B5 (pantothenic acid) deficiency can cause dermatitis and enteritis, it is classically associated with distal paresthesias and dysesthesias (burning sensation of the feet), which is not seen in this case. Vitamin B5 deficiency is rare and is less likely to explain this patient's additional symptoms (i.e., glossitis, dementia) than deficiency of another vitamin.

**B - Vitamin C (ascorbic acid)** - Vitamin C (ascorbic acid) deficiency results in clinical findings collectively known as scurvy, which can include ecchymoses, bleeding gums, and petechiae, none of which is seen in this case. The primary cause of ascorbic acid deficiency is prolonged dietary deficiency. Vitamin C deficiency is less likely to explain this patient's constellation of symptoms than deficiency of another vitamin.

**C - Vitamin B7 (biotin)** - While vitamin B7 (biotin) deficiency can cause dermatitis (around the eyes, nose, and mouth), enteritis, and CNS changes, it is very rare and primarily caused by prior antibiotic use and excessive raw egg ingestion, neither of which is the case here. Biotin deficiency is less likely to explain this patient's constellation of symptoms than deficiency of another vitamin.

**D - Vitamin B1 (thiamine)** - While vitamin B1 (thiamine) deficiency can be caused by chronic alcohol consumption and result in anterograde amnesia (as in Korsakoff syndrome), it is also associated with wet beriberi (high-output cardiac failure), dry beriberi (peripheral neuropathy), and/or Wernicke encephalopathy (oculomotor dysfunction, gait ataxia, confusion), none of which is seen in this case. Other causes of vitamin B1 deficiency include malnutrition, prolonged vomiting/diarrhea, and bariatric surgery. Thiamine deficiency is less likely to explain this patient's additional symptoms (i.e., glossitis, dermatitis) than deficiency of another vitamin.

**E - Vitamin B2 (riboflavin)** - While vitamin B2 (riboflavin) deficiency can cause glossitis, it is also associated with angular cheilitis and stomatitis, neither of which is seen here. Common causes of vitamin B2 deficiency include insufficient intake or absorption, such as in vegan patients or those with lactose intolerance. Riboflavin deficiency is less likely to explain this patient's additional symptoms (i.e., diarrhea, dementia) than deficiency of another vitamin.

**F - Vitamin B6 (pyridoxine)** - While vitamin B6 (pyridoxine) deficiency can be caused by chronic alcohol consumption or TB treatment (isoniazid use) and result in glossitis and seborrheic dermatitis, it is also associated with cheilitis, stomatitis, and seizures, none of which is seen in this case. Additionally, this patient's TB treatment occurred ∼ 10 years ago. Other causes of vitamin B6 deficiency include malnutrition and chronic kidney or liver disease. Pyridoxine deficiency is less likely to explain this patient's additional symptoms (i.e., dementia) than deficiency of another vitamin.

