### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Colonoscopy** - Because the EGD failed to confirm hemorrhage in the upper GI tract, the next step in the management of this patient would be a colonoscopy to identify a potential bleeding site in the lower GI tract. The most common cause of LGIB is diverticulosis. Other important causes that should be considered include colorectal cancer and segmental colon ischemia.

Image File: 682-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5faba7719908d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Double-balloon enteroscopy** - Double-balloon enteroscopy may be used to evaluate bleeding from the small bowel. Even though the small bowel is a potential bleeding site in this patient, especially since UGI bleeding was ruled out, the small bowel is not the next most common bleeding site.

**B - CT enterography** - CT enterography may be used to evaluate small bowel bleeding. Even though the small bowel is a potential bleeding site in this patient, especially since UGI bleeding was ruled out, the small bowel is not the next most common bleeding site.

**C - Radionuclide scan** - Radionuclide scan is commonly used in the diagnostic workup of small bowel bleeding and to confirm a Meckel's diverticulum. Even though the small bowel is a potential bleeding site in this patient, especially since UGI bleeding was ruled out, the small bowel is not the next most common bleeding site. One downside of radionuclide scanning is that it is only able to detect bleeding occurring at a minimum flow rate of 0.1–0.5 mL/min. Furthermore, it can only indicate the general bleeding area, not its precise location.

**D - Capsule endoscopy** - Capsule endoscopy is mainly used to visualize the small bowel, as the upper and lower gastrointestinal tract is better examined through endoscopy or colonoscopy. Even though the small bowel is a potential bleeding site in this patient, especially since UGI bleeding was ruled out, the small bowel is not the next most common bleeding site.

**F - Laparotomy** - Emergent laparotomy is indicated in patients with persistent or recurring gastrointestinal bleeding that is unresponsive to endoscopic therapy and causes hemodynamic instability despite repeated transfusions (> 4 RBC units within 24 hours). This patient is being managed with intravenous fluid and requires another intervention to evaluate the remaining GI tract for a bleeding site.

**G - Angiography** - Angiography is used to identify the source of gastrointestinal bleeding and simultaneously control the bleed. However, it is typically performed in patients with massive, life-threatening gastrointestinal bleeding who cannot be stabilized for further diagnostics. This patient is being managed with intravenous fluid and requires another intervention to evaluate the remaining GI tract for a bleeding site.

