### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Administer activated charcoal** - Patients presenting at the hospital for acetaminophen overdose within 4 hours of ingestion should receive activated charcoal for gastrointestinal decontamination. Charcoal is a highly adsorbent organic powder that prevents gastrointestinal absorption of the offending agent and subsequent toxicity. In addition, the acetaminophen level should be measured in all patients presenting with acetaminophen overdose around 4 hours following drug ingestion to assess the risk of hepatotoxicity. Acetaminophen toxicity is often asymptomatic in the first 24 hours after ingestion; however, it may manifest with nausea, vomiting, and lethargy. Treatment should not be delayed due to a lack of symptoms or laboratory evidence of toxicity, as a belated treatment increases the risk of acute liver failure.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer N-acetylcysteine** - N-acetylcysteine (NAC) is the antidote of choice for acetaminophen poisoning and should be given to all patients at significant risk for liver injury. Indications for NAC administration include serum acetaminophen level above the treatment line when measured 4 hours after ingestion, single ingestion of acetaminophen greater than 150 mg/kg (7.5 g irrespective of patient weight) if the acetaminophen level cannot be assessed within 8 hours of ingestion, a history of acetaminophen ingestion with signs of liver injury, and high serum acetaminophen level with an unknown time of ingestion. However, in patients that have arrived at the hospital within 4 hours of ingestion and have no evidence of liver injury, like this patient, a different treatment option is more appropriate. Moreover, serum acetaminophen levels should be measured prior to NAC administration.

**C - Admit for observation** - Although this patient with acetaminophen overdose is currently asymptomatic and has no laboratory evidence of liver impairment, observation without any intervention increases the risk of acute hepatic failure and further complications. Treatment should be initiated immediately.

**D - List for liver transplant** - Listing for liver transplant should be reserved for patients with evidence of acute liver failure not likely to recover spontaneously. This patient presented 1 hour after ingestion of acetaminophen and has no clinical or laboratory evidence of liver impairment. Management should be focused on preventing hepatotoxicity. The need for transplantation is assessed by serum transaminase concentrations, INR, creatinine, bilirubin, and clinical evidence of liver failure such as coagulopathy and/or encephalopathy.

**E - Perform liver biopsy** - Acetaminophen poisoning can lead to progressive liver impairment manifesting with abnormal liver function test results and RUQ tenderness around 24–72 hours after ingestion, and can eventually result in acute hepatic failure. This patient presented 1 hour after acetaminophen overdose, and management should be focused on preventing hepatotoxicity. A liver biopsy is therefore not indicated at this point.

