### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Topical nystatin** - Topical nystatin is the first-line treatment for patients with oral thrush, which typically gives way to red, inflamed, or bleeding areas when scraped off. Further common findings include pain while eating, loss of taste, and a cottony feeling in the mouth. This patient has several risk factors for oral candidiasis such as immunosuppression due to chemotherapy and a hematologic malignancy (i.e., non-Hodgkin lymphoma). Other topical antifungals used for the treatment of oral thrush include clotrimazole and ketoconazole.

Image File: 684-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57c021febb137.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous fluconazole** - Fluconazole is an antifungal agent primarily used to treat candidiasis and systemic candidal infections. However, intravenous administration is usually limited to more extensive disease such as esophageal candidiasis and is not used in oral thrush unless a patient is nonresponsive to topical therapy.

Image File: 684-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_53d90e5d88075.jpg

**B - Culture of the lesions** - Although culture of the lesions can be performed to diagnose oropharyngeal candidiasis, it is only used in recurrent or refractory disease to determine possible resistances as results usually take time. This is the patient's first episode of oral thrush and there are no indicators of unusual or resistant Candida species.

**D - Biopsy of a lesion** - A biopsy of the lesion would be indicated in the case of suspected oral leukoplakia, a precancerous lesion, in which malignancy should be ruled out. While the white lesions of leukoplakia resemble oropharyngeal candidiasis and are common in tobacco users, they are usually asymptomatic and cannot be scraped off as in this patient.

Image File: 684-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d947bae26.jpg

**E - Topical corticosteroids** - Topical corticosteroids are used in the treatment of severe aphthous stomatitis, a disease that presents with painful oral ulcers covered by a yellow fibrinous pseudomembrane. White plaques that can be scraped off are not typical of the disease, making oral candidiasis more likely.

Image File: 684-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5534fd0357ab8.jpg

