### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Simultaneous multi-peak contractions on esophageal manometry** - Simultaneous multi-peak contractions on esophageal manometry are the characteristic finding of DES. Repetitive nonperistaltic, nonprogressive contractions impede the progression of solid and liquid foodsdown the esophagus, which classically leads to dysphagia and squeezing retrosternal chest pain, as seen in this patient. Symptoms and relieving factors (nitrates) of DES can closely resemble those of cardiac pathology. Therefore, acute coronary syndrome should always be ruled out before considering a gastrointestinal disorder.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Multiple mucosal erosions on endoscopy** - Multiple mucosal erosions on endoscopy are consistent with reflux esophagitis caused by gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). This condition can cause retrosternal pain that radiates to the back and, in some cases, dysphagia as seen in this patient. However, additional symptoms like regurgitation and nausea would also be present. Furthermore, in GERD, esophagogram may show strictures, ulcers, and gastric hernias due to gastroesophageal reflux, whereas the multiple areas of diffuse, uncoordinated spasms with segmentation seen in this patient are more consistent with DES.

**C - High lower esophageal sphincter pressure on esophageal manometry** - High lower esophageal sphincter pressure on esophageal manometry is diagnostic of achalasia, which presents with progressive difficulty swallowing, retrosternal chest pain, and a foreign body sensation in the esophagus. However, this patient's sudden onset of symptoms while eating is not typical for achalasia. Also, the esophagogram findings in this patient are more consistent with DES.

**D - Mass at the gastroesophageal junction on ultrasonography** - A mass at the gastroesophageal junction on ultrasonography is suspicious for esophageal cancer. Patients typically present with dysphagia (for solids at first and liquids later), regurgitation, and systemic manifestations such as weight loss, fatigue, and anemia. This patient does not have systemic manifestations and esophagogram findings are more consistent with DES than esophageal cancer. If a mass were present, it would be seen as a narrowed asymmetrical lumen in the lower esophagus on esophagogram.

**E - Elevated CK-MB levels on serum studies** - Elevated CK-MB levels on serum studies are consistent with myocardial infarction. Although this patient has retrosternal chest pain radiating to the back, he lacks other symptoms like dyspnea, palpitations, diaphoresis, and typical findings on ECG. Furthermore, esophagogram results are consistent with DES.

**F - Significant ST-segment depression on exercise stress test** - Cardiac exercise stress test is used for diagnosis and prognosis of patients with anginal symptoms. If the patient has coronary artery disease (CAD), the atherosclerotic plaque would prevent sufficient blood required to meet the increased oxygen requirements from reaching the myocardium and thus show ST-segment depression on ECG. Although retrosternal chest pain that radiates to the back and relieves nitrates could be caused by CAD, such events would be independent of eating or drinking and more likely be triggered by exertion. Additionally, other features like palpitations, sweating, and dyspnea would likely also be present. CAD would not explain this patient's esophagogram results, which indicate DES.

**G - Esophageal manometry shows hypertensive contractions** - Hypertensive contractions on esophageal manometry are consistent with hypertension peristalsis (nutcracker esophagus). Although this patient's chest pain while eating could suggest this diagnosis, the presence of diffuse, uncoordinated spasms with segmentation on esophagogram are more consistent with DES.

