### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Gastroschisis** - Gastroschisis is a congenital ventral wall defect that leads to intestinal herniation through the involuted right umbilical vein, the weakest part of the fetal abdominal wall. As gastroschisis is an uncovered abdominal wall defect, α-fetoprotein (AFP) can diffuse freely into the amniotic fluid and maternal circulation, leading to elevated maternal serum AFP, which can be used as a screening test. As a confirmatory test, fetal ultrasound will show free-floating bowel without a membranous sac. Risk factors include young maternal age (i.e., under 20 years of age), and tobacco and alcohol use during pregnancy. Initial treatment of a newborn with gastroschisis includes placing the extruded abdominal contents in a protective silo, nasogastric decompression, and immediate surgical correction.

Image File: 688-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a3946c38827d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Vitelline fistula** - Vitelline fistula (also known as patent omphalomesenteric duct) occurs when the vitelline duct fails to close during the 7th week of development, leading to a patent connection between the abdominal wall and ileum. It is diagnosed clinically after birth when meconium discharge through the umbilicus is observed. Elevated α-fetoprotein and fetal ultrasound findings of abdominal viscera in the amniotic fluid are not consistent with a vitelline fistula.

**B - Diaphragmatic hernia** - Diaphragmatic hernias occur when the abdominal contents protrude into the thoracic cavity due to a defect in the diaphragm. Although congenital diaphragmatic hernias can be diagnosed on fetal ultrasound, imaging would show abdominal viscera within the thorax versus the free-floating contents in the amniotic fluid seen in this patient. In addition, elevated α-fetoprotein is not consistent with this condition.

**C - Myelomeningocele** - Myelomeningocele is a neural tube defect that most commonly develops between the 3rd and 4th weeks of pregnancy from the incomplete closure of the spinal neural tube. It ultimately leads to the protrusion of the meninges and spinal cord within a membranous sac through a vertebral defect. Although elevated α-fetoprotein is associated with this condition, ultrasound findings of fetal viscera suspended freely in the amniotic cavity are inconsistent with myelomeningocele.

Image File: 688-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f93bba654427.jpg

**D - Umbilical hernia** - Congenital umbilical hernias are abdominal wall defects that may occur when the umbilical ring fails to close during fetal development. The midgut initially develops outside of the abdominal cavity, until the second trimester, when it physiologically herniates back into the abdomen. Failure to close the umbilical ring or presence of underdeveloped fascia leads to abdominal weakness and may result in bulging of abdominal content through the umbilicus. It is diagnosed clinically after birth and is not associated with elevated α-fetoprotein levels or free-floating viscera on fetal ultrasound during the second trimester.

Image File: 688-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5971bf649091a.jpg

**E - Vesicourachal diverticulum** - A vesicourachal diverticulum occurs when the connection between the urachus and bladder partially fails to obliterate during fetal development, leading to an outpouching of the bladder. Although typically asymptomatic and discovered incidentally, a vesicourachal diverticulum may manifest initially with infection, perforation, abscess formation, or neoplasm in early childhood. This anomaly can also be diagnosed on fetal ultrasound. However, the imaging findings (i.e., extruded abdominal contents) and elevated α-fetoprotein observed here are inconsistent with a vesicourachal diverticulum.

**G - Omphalocele** - Omphalocele is a congenital ventral wall defect in which protrusion of the abdominal contents covered with peritoneum occurs at the site of umbilical cord insertion. Although maternal serum α-fetoprotein (AFP) is also elevated in this condition (due to leakage of AFP into the amniotic fluid and maternal circulation), fetal ultrasound shows midline herniation of abdominal contents within a hernia sac in contrast to the free-floating viscera seen on this patient's prenatal ultrasound. In addition, omphalocele is commonly associated with other congenital diseases, including trisomy 13, trisomy 18, and Beckwith-Wiedemann, evidence of which is not described in the fetus.

