### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Proctocolectomy** - Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a risk factor for developing colorectal cancer and the risk increases with increased duration and/or extent of disease. This patient's features (i.e., blood in stool, unintentional weight loss, change in stool consistency, anemia) in conjunction with the results of his barium enema are consistent with malignant transformation. The CT scan suggests no lymph node involvement and no metastases. As UC is restricted to the colon and rectum, a proctocolectomy with an ileal pouch-anal anastomosis or ileostomy is a potentially curative treatment for both UC and colorectal carcinoma.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Left hemicolectomy** - Left hemicolectomy is indicated in patients with a tumor in the descending colon, which this patient most likely has. However, this patient also has ulcerative colitis, and removing half of the colon does not reduce the risk of developing additional malignancies in the remaining colon. Therefore, another treatment option is more appropriate.

Image File: 689-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ef1fd6814408.jpg

**B - Radiation therapy** - Neoadjuvant radiation therapy (NART) is indicated in patients with locally advanced rectal carcinoma. However, in colon cancer, which this patient likely has, radion therapy is not a standard therapeutic modality.

**C - Budesonide enema** - Budesonide enema is used in the treatment of mild to moderate ulcerative colitis (UC) if the response to 5-ASA (e.g., mesalamine) is not sufficient. Although bloody bowel movements, weight loss, and anemia may be symptoms of a UC flare in this patient treated with mesalamine, other symptoms such as diarrhea, fecal urgency, abdominal pain, and tenesmus are absent. This patient most likely has colon cancer, for which budesonide enema is not the most appropriate treatment.

**D - Polyethylene glycol therapy** - Osmotic laxatives such as polyethylene glycol (PEG) can be used in the treatment of constipation, which this patient has (hard, small, thin stools). However, the underlying cause of this patient's constipation is most likely colon cancer, which requires a different treatment at this time.

