### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Repeat imaging in 6 months** - The first step in managing hepatic adenomas is to stop all oral contraceptives (OCPs) and anabolic steroids and remove any hormone-containing IUDs, all of which can increase the size of the tumor. In female patients, asymptomatic HA < 5 cm in diameter, as seen here, can be managed conservatively because it is unlikely to undergo rupture or malignant transformation. However, some HAs have been known to increase in size following discontinuation of OCPs or steroids; thus, follow-up imaging with CT/MRI with contrast at 6-month intervals for 2 years is strongly recommended. Once serial monitoring over this period has shown that the HA size is stable, imaging may be conducted annually. Surgical resection is recommended in female patients who present with symptoms (e.g., upper abdominal pain, fullness, nausea) and/or a tumor size of > 5 cm as well as in male patients irrespective of tumor size because of an increased risk of malignant transformation.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Embolization of the mass** - Transcatheter-arterial embolization using coils or particulate matter is recommended for hepatic adenomas (HAs) that are symptomatic or lesions that are > 5 cm in diameter because of the higher risk of hemorrhage and malignant conversion to hepatocellular carcinoma. Recent studies have also found that embolization works especially well for multifocal HAs in patients who are not good candidates for extensive surgery, as well as patients who have active bleeding from their lesions. This patient has an asymptomatic lesion that is < 5 cm. Therefore, a more conservative course of management is recommended.

**B - Percutaneous liver biopsy** - Percutaneous liver biopsy is recommended to confirm the diagnosis if imaging is unclear or if hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is suspected. On Doppler ultrasound, HCC shows significant arterial blood supply and neovascularization around a round mass with irregular boundaries. On CT, HCC shows a hypodense lesion with irregular borders and possible local invasion. This patient has imaging findings that are consistent with hepatic adenoma; for this reason, a liver biopsy is not indicated at this time.

Image File: 691-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d90ca77d6.jpg

**D - Radiofrequency ablation of the mass** - Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) may be considered for patients with hepatic adenoma lesions that are symptomatic or > 5 cm in diameter, given the increased risk of hemorrhage and malignant transformation to hepatocellular carcinoma. However, multiple sessions are often required, and residual adenoma may persist despite treatment. Therefore, RFA may be considered for patients who are unwilling to undergo surgery or those who require a major hepatic resection. This patient has a small, asymptomatic (< 5 cm) lesion, meaning that RFA is not indicated at this time.

**E - Surgical resection of the mass** - Given the increased risk of spontaneous hemorrhage and possible malignant transformation to hepatocellular carcinoma in larger hepatic adenoma lesions, surgical resection is recommended for lesions that are > 5 cm in diameter. Surgical resection is also recommended for lesions that are symptomatic. In patients with small tumors within the anterolateral liver segments, or patients who have pedunculated tumors, laparoscopic resection may be an option. The majority of tumors, however, require a larger incision with local resection or segmental partial lobectomy. Given that this patient's asymptomatic lesion is < 5 cm, surgical management is not indicated at this time.

