### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Hepatocellular carcinoma** - Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most serious complications and the most common cause of death in patients with hereditary hemochromatosis. The risk of HCC in these patients is increased 200 fold compared to the general population. HCC arises from progressive iron deposition in the hepatic parenchyma that results in cirrhosis. Patients with hereditary hemochromatosis and confirmed cirrhosis should be actively screened for HCC.

Image File: 692-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb41220d9c8d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Non-Hodgkin lymphoma** - Non-Hodgkin lymphoma can occur in association with infections (e.g., EBV, HCV, Helicobacter pylori), autoimmune diseases (e.g., Hashimoto thyroiditis), and dermatomyositis. However, an association between non-Hodgkin lymphoma and hemochromatosis is less likely.

**B - Colorectal carcinoma** - Hereditary syndromes such as familial adenomatous polyposis and HNPCC are genetic risk factors for colorectal adenocarcinoma. Although some studies suggest an increased risk of colorectal cancer in hemochromatosis, this association is not well established and other complications are more likely to occur.

**D - Parkinsonism** - Parkinsonism is a complication of Wilson disease, which can present with hepatomegaly and elevated transaminases (AST and ALT), as seen in this patient. However, this patient lacks other typical features of Wilson disease, such as behavioral changes, neurological symptoms (e.g., tremor, dysarthria), and Kayser-Fleischer rings.

**E - Progressive central obesity** - Progressive central obesity is associated with Cushing syndrome, which could also cause fatigue, hyperpigmentation, and hyperglycemia. However, hyperpigmentation generally only occurs in areas that are not normally exposed to the sun (e.g., palm creases, oral cavity). Furthermore, proximal muscle weakness, thinning skin, weight gain, and sleep disturbances would be expected. Cushing syndrome would also not explain this patient's hepatomegaly, testicular atrophy, or elevated transaminases and ferritin levels.

**F - Rheumatoid arthritis** - Although symmetric arthralgias and stiffness of metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joints and fatigue are common findings in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, this condition would typically also affect wrist joints and proximal interphalangeal (PIP) joints, and present with joint deformities (e.g., swan neck deformity). Moreover, RA would not explain this patient's skin hyperpigmentation, diabetes mellitus, and reduced libido, making a different diagnosis more likely.

**G - Pancreatic carcinoma** - Pancreatic cancer is associated with several inherited genetic syndromes, such as Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, HNPCC, and multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1. However, the link between pancreatic cancer and hemochromatosis is not well established.

**H - Adrenal crisis** - Adrenal crisis can occur in patients with primary adrenal insufficiency, which causes hyperpigmentation, fatigue, and joint pain, as seen in this patient. However, the hyperpigmentation generally only occurs in areas that are not normally exposed to sunlight (e.g., palm creases, mucous membrane of the oral cavity). Also, in patients with primary adrenal insufficiency, decreased libido generally only occurs in women, and other signs, such as weight loss, intestinal complaints, hypotension, and/or hypoglycemia, would be present

