### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Therapy with oral fluconazole** - Fluconazole is a first-generation triazole antifungal medication used against Candida, Cryptococcus, dermatophytes, and other dimorphic fungi. This patient has symptoms of esophagitis as well as oral thrush on examination. In HIV-positive patients, 50–70% of cases of esophagitis are caused by Candida albicans. Therefore, it is prudent to give this patient a trial of fluconazole to see if her symptoms improve. If her symptoms do not improve, she should undergo an upper endoscopy to rule out other causes of esophagitis.

Image File: 696-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57c021febb137.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Therapy with nystatin mouthwash** - Although topical nystatin can be used to treat oral thrush, this patient also has clinical features of Candida esophagitis, which nystatin would not be able to treat. Therefore, nystatin is not a viable antifungal medication in this patient.

**B - Therapy with oral azithromycin** - Azithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic commonly used as a prophylactic drug and to treat disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) disease in HIV-positive patients. MAC disease manifests with fever, fatigue, diarrhea, weight loss, and/or pulmonary disease. Prophylaxis against MAC is started when the CD4+ count ≤ 50/mm3 in patients who are not receiving antiretroviral therapy. However, MAC disease does not typically cause dysphagia and odynophagia, and these symptoms should be addressed first. Therefore, azithromycin would not be effective for this patient.

**C - Therapy with IV ganciclovir** - Ganciclovir is an antiviral drug used to treat cytomegalovirus (CMV) infections. While CMV esophagitis can occur in HIV-positive patients and causes dysphagia, it is less common than fungal esophagitis. As this patient has oral thrush on examination, candida esophagitis is more likely. Therefore, ganciclovir is not indicated in this patient.

**D - Discontinuation of methimazole** - Methimazole is an antithyroid drug used to treat hyperthyroidism. This patient has clinical features of esophagitis and is immunocompromised. While there are drugs (e.g., doxycycline, potassium chloride or NSAIDs) that can cause esophagitis and symptoms similar to those seen in this patient, methimazole does not cause esophagitis. Its most serious complications is agranulocytosis.

**E - Therapy with IV amphotericin B** - Amphotericin B is an antifungal agent used to treat systemic fungal and protozoal infections. Amphotericin B is only used as a treatment for candidal esophagitis if the organism is resistant against first-line drugs or if there is recurrence of symptoms and an endoscopy is not desired. Therefore, amphotericin B is not indicated in this patient.

**F - Esophagogastroduodenoscopy** - Esophagogastroduodenoscopy is an upper endoscopy used to examine the esophagus, stomach, and the first part of the duodenum. In a patient with clinical features of Candida esophagitis and oral thrush on examination, optimal management would first involve the treatment of fungal organisms. If this patient's symptoms were to persist even after treatment, the next step would be an esophagogastroduodenoscopy.

Image File: 696-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_53d90e5d88075.jpg

