### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Nadolol therapy** - Nonselective beta blockers like nadolol and propranolol are the primary prophylactic agent of choice against a variceal bleed in patients with small (< 5 mm in diameter), nonbleeding varices, as seen here. Nonselective beta blockers cause splanchnic vasoconstriction, decreasing portal blood flow and portal pressure, thereby reducing both the enlargement of varices and the risk of hemorrhage. Beta-blocker treatment in patients suffering from advanced liver cirrhosis (Child class C) may lead to circulatory dysregulation. In these cases, the use of esophageal band ligation is the best alternative. Beta blockers should not be used in acute variceal bleeds as they decrease blood pressure and blunt physiologic elevation of HR.

Image File: 697-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d766f5134a7e.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Injection sclerotherapy** - Injection sclerotherapy is a treatment option for acute esophageal variceal bleeding. However, it is an invasive procedure associated with a risk of significant complications, such as esophageal perforation or mediastinitis. It has not been proven to decrease the rates of a variceal bleeding and has no benefit over noninvasive prophylactic measures. Thus, injection sclerotherapy is not recommended as primary prophylaxis against variceal bleeding.

**C - Losartan therapy** - Losartan has not been shown to decrease portal pressures or prevent variceal bleeding and is therefore not recommended as primary prophylaxis against variceal bleeding.

**D - Octreotide therapy** - Intravenous octreotide is used in the management of acute esophageal variceal bleeding as it rapidly reduces portal pressure and helps achieve hemostasis, thus enabling endoscopic therapy of a bleeding varix. However, due to tachyphylaxis, it is not suitable as a prophylactic agent against variceal bleeding.

**E - Isosorbide mononitrate therapy** - Nitrates are a class of vasodilatory drugs that have been shown to reduce portal pressure. However, nitrates have not been shown to decrease bleeding rates and are therefore not recommended as a primary prophylaxis against variceal bleeding. In addition, concurrent use of nitrates with phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors (e.g., sildenafil) is contraindicated because of the risk of severe hypotension.

**F - Endoscopic band ligation** - Endoscopic band ligation (EBL) is recommended as primary prophylaxis against variceal bleeding in individuals with large esophageal varices detected on endoscopy. In patients with small varices, like this patient, EBL has not been shown to be superior to another noninvasive primary prophylactic agent. In addition, EBL can also cause complications, such as hemorrhage, odynophagia, esophageal ulcerations, and rarely, even esophageal perforation and is therefore not the primary prophylaxis of choice against variceal bleeds from small esophageal varices.

**G - Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt** - Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) is a definitive treatment of esophageal varices that is reserved for patients with recurrent variceal bleeds that are not controlled by endoscopic band ligation or sclerotherapy. However, it is an invasive procedure and carries the risk of major complications, such as hepatic encephalopathy and cardiac arrhythmia. It is, therefore, not recommended as primary prophylaxis against variceal bleeding.

**H - Metoprolol therapy** - Metoprolol is a selective beta-1 antagonist that primarily acts on the beta receptors in the heart and is therefore ineffective in the management of esophageal varices. The presence of large esophageal varices is an indication for pharmacologic prophylactic therapy to decrease the risk of variceal hemorrhage.

