### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Metronidazole therapy** - Giardiasis is the most common parasitic cause of diarrhea in the US. It is caused by Giardia lamblia, which can be acquired from drinking untreated water (natural springs, streams). Metronidazole is an antibiotic that is effective against anaerobes and protozoa and is a commonly used treatment for giardiasis. Side effects include nausea and a metallic taste in the mouth. Patients should be advised not to consume alcohol while taking metronidazole because it can lead to a disulfiram-like reaction with nausea and vomiting.

Image File: 698-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5992be20ec7a8.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ciprofloxacin therapy** - Ciprofloxacin can be used to treat traveler's diarrhea caused by enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli endemic in many tropical countries. This patient visited Brazil 3 months ago and might have contracted traveler's diarrhea (watery diarrhea) during that time, which resolved without further treatment. At this time, however, the patient most likely has giardiasis, which ciprofloxacin is not effective against.

**B - Octreotide therapy** - Octreotide is used to relieve symptoms in patients with carcinoid tumors, which classically present with diarrhea, cutaneous flushing, and asthma-like attacks. This patient does not complain of any flushing or dyspnea.

**D - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole therapy** - TMP-SMX is used for maintenance therapy in Whipple's disease, which may also present with malabsorption and greasy stools. However, there are usually also extraintestinal symptoms such as migratory arthritis, lymphadenopathy, and/or neurologic deficits. Moreover, Whipple's disease would not present with cysts in a stool sample. TMP-SMX is not effective against giardiasis.

**E - Vancomycin therapy** - Oral vancomycin is the first-line therapy for Clostridioides difficile infection, which may present with watery, rather than frothy, and greasy diarrhea. Moreover, C. difficile mainly causes infections in elderly patients (> 65 years) who have received treatment with an antibiotic like clindamycin or cephalosporin. This patient has no history of prior antibiotic treatment and most likely has giardiasis, which vancomycin is not effective against.

**F - Supportive treatment only** - Supportive treatment is important in the context of diarrhea to replace fluid and electrolyte losses. However, this patient's diarrhea is caused by a parasite and therefore also demands causative treatment.

