### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Irritable bowel syndrome** - Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a clinical diagnosis that manifests with recurrent abdominal pain that is associated with ≥ 2 of the following: pain related to defecation, change in stool frequency, and change in stool consistency. Red flag symptoms (e.g., nighttime diarrhea, bloody stools, fever, weight loss) are absent in this condition. IBS symptoms are often triggered by stress, and lab findings are usually normal, as seen in this patient. First-line treatment includes lifestyle modifications (e.g., physical activity, stress management), dietary adjustments (e.g., adequate hydration, high-fiber foods, avoidance of FODMAP foods), and psychotherapy (e.g., cognitive behavioral therapy). Antidiarrheals (e.g., loperamide) may be prescribed for diarrhea-predominant IBS, laxatives (e.g., psyllium, polyethylene glycol, lubiprostone) may be prescribed for constipation-predominant IBS, and antispasmodics (e.g., dicyclomine, hyoscyamine) or tricyclic antidepressants may be prescribed to alleviate cramping/pain.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Uterine leiomyoma** - Uterine leiomyoma can manifest with constipation, dysmenorrhea, and recurrent pain, as seen here. However, the pain tends to be localized to the pelvis and back and patients often have menorrhagia and/or metrorrhagia with/without iron deficiency anemia, which is not consistent with this patient's presentation. Moreover, uterine leiomyoma is associated with an enlarged, firm, and irregular uterus on bimanual pelvic examination, whereas this patient has a normal physical examination.

**C - Endometriosis** - Endometriosis often manifests with chronic episodic, lower abdominal pain and dysmenorrhea in women 20–40 years of age, as seen here. However, endometriosis is associated with dyschezia (i.e., painful defecation) rather than pain that is relieved after defecation.

**D - Ulcerative colitis** - Ulcerative colitis (UC) usually manifests with chronic episodes of abdominal pain and diarrhea and is most commonly diagnosed in patients between 15–35 years of age, as seen here. However, UC typically causes bloody diarrhea with mucus, tenesmus, weight loss, elevated inflammatory markers (e.g., erythrocyte sedimentation rate, leukocytosis), and anemia (due to anemia of chronic inflammation and intestinal blood loss), none of which is seen here.

**E - Colon cancer** - Colon cancer can manifest with abdominal pain and changes in bowel habits, as seen here. However, colon cancer is rare before 30 years of age in the absence of inherited disorders (e.g., familial adenomatous polyposis, Lynch syndrome) and is usually associated with weight loss. Moreover, right-sided colon cancers tend to manifest with iron deficiency anemia, while left-sided cancers tend to manifest with progressively worsening bowel obstruction and decreased stool caliber (i.e., pencil-shaped stool), which is not consistent with this patient's presentation.

**F - Crohn disease** - Crohn disease often manifests with chronic episodes of abdominal pain and nonbloody diarrhea and is most commonly diagnosed in patients between 15–35 years of age, as seen here. However, Crohn disease typically causes localized right lower quadrant pain, weight loss, elevated inflammatory markers (e.g., erythrocyte sedimentation rate, leukocytosis), and anemia (due to anemia of chronic inflammation and vitamin B12 malabsorption ± intestinal blood loss), none of which is consistent with this patient's presentation.

**G - Celiac disease** - Celiac disease can manifest with chronic episodes of abdominal pain and changes in bowel habits, as seen here. However, celiac disease is typically associated with nausea, vomiting, steatorrhea, and symptoms of malabsorption (fatigue, weight loss, iron deficiency anemia, vitamin deficiencies), none of which is seen in this patient. In addition, the autoimmune reaction within the small intestine seen in celiac disease is caused by exposure to gliadin. Moreover, IgA antitissue transglutaminase antibodies are usually positive in symptomatic patients (i.e., on a gluten-containing diet) unless the patient has IgA deficiency.

