### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Stop evening exercise** - Although regular exercise for at least 20 minutes is beneficial for individuals with insomnia disorder, it should be avoided five to six hours before bedtime.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Trial of diphenhydramine** - The sedating side effects of diphenhydramine can help patients with increased sleep latency to fall asleep. However, most patients become tolerant to this side effect over the course of a few days. Moreover, diphenhydramine would be counterproductive for this patient, as it may cause sedation on the following day due to its long half-life.

**B - Reading in bed** - Although reading may be helpful to fall asleep, individuals with insomnia disorder should be discouraged from engaging in other activities in bed such as working or reading. This student should be advised to get out of the bedroom and read until he gets tired, instead of reading in bed.

**C - Complete caffeine cessation** - Individuals with insomnia disorder should avoid stimulants, such as caffeinated drinks and nicotine, 3–4 hours before bedtime. However, complete caffeine cessation is not necessary.

**E - Alcoholic beverage prior to bedtime** - Although alcohol makes falling asleep easier, it may lead to difficulty maintaining sleep, nightmares, and a headache the next day. To improve sleep hygiene, individuals with insomnia disorder should avoid alcoholic beverages 4–6 hours preceding sleep.

**F - Stop using an alarm clock** - To improve sleep hygiene, individuals with insomnia disorder should be advised to wake up at regular times (also on the weekend and holidays).

**G - Scheduled afternoon naps** - Individuals with insomnia disorder should be advised to avoid afternoon naps in order to improve sleep hygiene. If taken, naps should not occur after 3 pm and be no longer than 1 hour.

**H - Warm room temperature** - To improve sleep hygiene, individuals with insomnia disorder should be advised to sleep in a quiet, dark, and pleasantly cool bedroom.

