### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Measure serum lipid levels** - This patient's cutaneous eruptive xanthomas are a hallmark finding of hypertriglyceridemia, which can cause acute pancreatitis when triglyceride levels exceed 1000 mg/dL. Other causes of acute pancreatitis include biliary pathology (e.g., gallstones, constriction of the ampulla of Vater), alcohol use, and medications (e.g., sulfonamides, valproic acid, tetracycline, steroids). The initial diagnostic workup in patients suspected of having pancreatitis should include lipase and/or amylase level, hepatic panel, and some form of abdominal imaging (e.g., abdominal ultrasound or CT).

Image File: 701-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a9aa382a0b11.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Perform a pilocarpine-induced sweat test** - A pilocarpine-induced sweat test can be used to diagnose cystic fibrosis, which can cause acute pancreatitis. However, cystic fibrosis is more often associated with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, and it is unlikely that the first manifestation of cystic fibrosis would be an episode of acute pancreatitis at age 21. In addition, the patient's cutaneous xanthomas make another etiology far more likely.

**B - Measure serum mumps IgM titer** - Measurement of mumps IgM antibody levels can be used to detect acute mumps infection, a rare (< 1%) cause of acute pancreatitis. This patient's lack of childhood vaccinations (including the MMR vaccine) puts him at risk of contracting mumps, but the peak incidence is 5–14 years of age. Moreover, he has no other symptoms to suggest acute mumps infection (e.g., parotitis, low-grade fever, malaise, headache, or orchitis).

**C - Perform an esophagogastroduodenoscopy** - Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) is an invasive test that can be useful in the evaluation of patients with dysphagia, odynophagia, hematemesis, hematochezia, and/or melena. An EGD can be used to diagnose peptic ulcer disease, which can also present with acute epigastric pain radiating to the back. However, this patient's hypocalcemia and eruptive xanthomas are more consistent with acute pancreatitis, for which EGD would not be helpful.

**D - Obtain an upright x-ray of the abdomen** - An upright x-ray of the abdomen is typically used to assess for perforation of the GI tract or to visualize pancreatic calcifications associated with chronic pancreatitis. It would not be helpful in diagnosing or determining the cause of acute pancreatitis. The patient here does not have signs of an acute abdomen such as abdominal rigidity, rebound, or guarding; an abdominal x-ray would therefore just expose him to unnecessary radiation.

**F - Measure stool elastase level** - Stool elastase levels are used to assess for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency in patients with symptoms of chronic pancreatitis. It would not help to identify the cause of acute pancreatitis.

