### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Dietary therapy** - Dietary therapy consisting of avoiding potential food allergens (e.g., milk, egg, wheat, soy, and, in this patient, peanuts) is an effective treatment for eosinophilic esophagitis. Elimination diets are initially maintained for eight weeks; upon symptom resolution and normalization of esophageal biopsies, foods can be gradually reintroduced. Ideally, dietary therapy should be coordinated with a dietician to prevent nutritional deficiencies. Patients should also carry an epinephrine autoinjector because accidental exposure to an eliminated food allergen may result in anaphylaxis. Other treatment options include acid suppression with proton pump inhibitors and topical glucocorticoids (e.g., budesonide, fluticasone).

Image File: 702-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9465504a.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Esophageal pH monitoring** - Twenty-four-hour esophageal pH monitoring is indicated to confirm the diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in patients with persistent symptoms despite PPI therapy. GERD can manifest with epigastric pain and dysphagia, which are seen in this patient. However, upper endoscopy findings in GERD include mucosal erosions and strictures rather than linear, longitudinal furrows and circumferential lesions. Moreover, this patient's age and allergic disposition are highly suggestive of eosinophilic esophagitis.

**B - Systemic glucocorticoid therapy** - Systemic glucocorticoid therapy is not a recommended treatment for eosinophilic esophagitis because of its known side effects. It has similar effectiveness to topical glucocorticoids (e.g., swallowed budesonide or fluticasone), which may be considered as an alternative treatment option in this patient with eosinophilic esophagitis if other therapies are unsuccessful.

**C - Esophageal manometry** - Esophageal manometry is the gold standard for evaluating esophageal motility disorders (EMD) such as achalasia and distal esophageal spasm. These conditions manifest with dysphagia, which is seen in this patient. However, patients with EMD typically experience dysphagia to both liquids and solids rather than only to solids. Additionally, upper endoscopy in EMD usually shows normal esophageal mucosa rather than the linear, longitudinal furrows and circumferential lesions seen here.

**D - Valganciclovir therapy** - Valganciclovir is the treatment for cytomegalovirus (CMV) esophagitis, which can manifest with dysphagia and epigastric pain, both seen in this patient. However, typical upper endoscopy findings in CMV esophagitis are multiple linear ulcers rather than the linear furrows and circumferential lesions seen here. Moreover, in immunocompetent patients such as this one, CMV infections are usually asymptomatic or mild; CMV esophagitis is more common in immunocompromised individuals (especially those with HIV with low CD4 counts).

**E - Esophageal dilation** - Esophageal dilation is indicated in patients with eosinophilic esophagitis and esophageal strictures if conservative therapy has been ineffective. Although this patient has eosinophilic esophagitis, no strictures were seen on endoscopy and conservative therapy has not yet been initiated.

