### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Esophageal atresia** - This patient has coughing spells, drooling, foaming at the mouth, and episodes of cyanosis, which are all indicative of esophageal atresia. Infants with esophageal atresia are usually unable to swallow during the prenatal period, which also explains the polyhydramnios in the vignette. (See table “Differential diagnoses of newborn swallowing disorders”)

Image File: 704-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58f600ae03c21.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Choanal atresia** - Choanal atresia presents immediately after birth and causes cyanotic attacks. However, cyanosis improves when the baby cries, as this involves breathing through the mouth rather than through the obliterated nasal passage.

**C - Esophageal stricture** - Esophageal stricture appears as either a congenital or acquired disorder (e.g., after ingestion of batteries or caustic substances). Congenital esophageal stricture is usually not apparent at birth and only becomes apparent through dysphagia and regurgitation once the infant begins feeding with solids (i.e. around the weaning period). Additionally, it does not affect the airways and does not cause cyanotic attacks.

**D - Achalasia** - Achalasia is very rare in infants and occurs most commonly in middle-aged individuals. It causes dysphagia and regurgitation, which the infant here does not exhibit. Moreover, because it does not primarily affect the airways, it does not cause cyanosis.

Image File: 704-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d919e9408.jpg

**E - Pulmonary hypoplasia** - Pulmonary hypoplasia commonly presents with cyanosis in newborns, but it does not cause coughing spells or drooling and it is associated with oligohydramnios, not polyhydramnios.

**F - Defective swallowing reflex** - Several neurological and neuromuscular conditions, such as Down syndrome, cerebral palsy, and spinal muscular atrophy, are associated with a defective swallowing reflex. A defective swallowing reflex may cause some of the symptoms exhibited by the infant, such as drooling, coughing spells, and cyanotic attacks. However, both cerebral palsy and spinal muscular atrophy typically manifest with abnormal muscle tone, and Down syndrome causes typical facial skeletal abnormalities that this patient does not display.

**G - Normal post C-section status** - After a C-section, babies may still have amniotic fluid inside the lungs. This remnant is typically expelled during the first minutes after birth. Although it may cause excessive secretions, it resolves spontaneously. Cyanotic attacks and coughing spells do not normally occur after a C-section.

