### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Esophageal perforation** - This patient most likely has an esophageal perforation, which is associated with the esophagogastroduodenoscopy that was performed the day before symptom onset. Iatrogenic esophageal perforation usually occurs within 24 hours of upper endoscopy. Fever may occur as a result of a secondary infection of the mediastinum or peritoneum.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pneumothorax** - Pneumothorax typically presents with chest pain and may also be accompanied by subcutaneous emphysema with crepitus. However, the pain is usually described as sharp pain that increases with inspiration. Additionally, this patient does not seem to be in significant respiratory distress since his oxygen saturation is within the normal range (98%), all of which favors another diagnosis.

**B - Acute pancreatitis** - Acute pancreatitis is associated with a dull pain that radiates to the back. Fever also commonly occurs and there may even be ST-T changes. Although this patient presents with radiating chest pain to the back, fever, and nonspecific ST-T changes, his crepitus over the thorax shortly following the endoscopic procedure favors a different diagnosis.

**D - Aortic dissection** - Patients with aortic dissection typically present with sudden, severe, “tearing” chest pain, radiating to the back and potentially symptoms of cardiac tamponade (e.g., marked jugular venous distention, hypotension). Another important feature of aortic dissection is asymmetric blood pressures and pulses. Although this patient presents with chest pain radiating to the back, he has very similar blood pressures in his upper and lower extremities. His symptoms also occurred shortly after an endoscopic procedure, which makes another diagnosis more likely.

**E - Acute myocardial infarction** - Acute myocardial infarction is typically characterized by acute‑onset substernal pressure in the chest, which can radiate to the left arm, neck, or jaw. Although this patient's chest pain may mimic the pain seen with MI, he presents with nonspecific ST-T changes on the ECG and normal Troponin I levels, which make the diagnosis of an acute MI less likely.

