### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Bacterial catabolism of nitrogenous compounds** - Increased production of ammonia by gut bacteria is the most likely precipitating factor for hepatic encephalopathy in this patient. Gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding provides gut bacteria with nitrogenous compounds (e.g., hemoglobin) that are degraded to ammonia, which is in turn absorbed in the GI tract. Since the elimination of metabolic products is already impaired in patients with advanced liver disease, any subsequent accumulation of neurotoxins (such as ammonia) can trigger an episode of hepatic encephalopathy. Other precipitants include factors that increase ammonium production (infection, excessive protein consumption, hypokalemia, hyponatremia, metabolic alkalosis, hypoxemia) and factors that impair ammonium metabolism and excretion (e.g., renal failure, portal vein thrombosis, portosystemic shunt).

Treatment of patients with hepatic encephalopathy includes rifaximin to reduce the number of ammonia-producing intestinal bacteria, and lactulose to decrease the amount of ammonia absorbed from the GI tract (lactulose provides H+ for the conversion of ammonia, NH3, to ammonium, NH4+, which is charged and not absorbed).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Metabolic acidosis** - Metabolic alkalosis, not acidosis, can precipitate hepatic encephalopathy. In states of alkalosis, ammonium (NH4+) is converted to ammonia (NH3); this uncharged particle can cross the blood-brain barrier, accumulating in the CNS.

**B - Occlusion of the middle cerebral artery** - Middle cerebral artery occlusion typically manifests with sudden onset focal neurologic deficits, such as hemiparesis, hemisensory loss, hemianopia, and aphasia, none of which are seen in this patient.

**D - Gram-negative bacterial infection** - Peritoneal infections with gram-negative pathogens (e.g., E. coli) can result in spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP), which can precipitate hepatic encephalopathy. Although SBP should be suspected in a patient who presents with abdominal distension, ascites, and altered mental status, this patient's diagnostic paracentesis shows a neutrophil count of < 250 cells/mm3, ruling out SBP. Moreover, this patient does not have a fever or rebound tenderness on palpation of the abdomen, which would be expected in patients with peritonitis.

**E - Bleeding into the subdural space** - Patients with liver cirrhosis commonly have a decreased platelet count and elevated INR, increasing the risk for traumatic and/or nontraumatic subdural hematoma. Moreover, subdural hematoma can manifest with altered mental status and somnolence, both of which are seen in this patient. However, patients with subdural hematoma typically present with a severe headache and/or focal neurologic signs (e.g., hemiparesis, impaired gait, speech, or vision, personality changes, unilateral or bilateral dilated or nonreactive pupils), none of which are seen here.

**F - Inadequate thiamine intake** - Thiamine deficiency can result in Wernicke encephalopathy, which should be suspected in patients with a history of alcohol-induced cirrhosis who present with a change in mental status. The classic triad of Wernicke encephalopathy consists of confusion, ataxic gait, and nystagmus. While this patient presents with signs of encephalopathy (altered level of consciousness and confusion), he does not have ataxia or ocular signs. This patient's asterixis makes hepatic encephalopathy, which is not precipitated by thiamine deficiency, a more likely diagnosis.

