### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Anorectal manometry** - Anorectal manometry is a useful screening test in children > 1 month of age with suspected Hirschsprung disease (HD). While most cases of HD manifest in the neonatal period with symptoms of distal intestinal obstruction (e.g., delayed passage of meconium, bilious vomiting), patients with mild disease (e.g., ultrashort-segment HD) may present later in childhood with failure to thrive, chronic constipation with the passage of small diameter stools, and an empty ampulla on digital rectal examination. In a patient with HD, anorectal manometry shows an absent relaxation reflex of the internal anal sphincter after stretching of the rectum. The diagnosis is confirmed by a rectal biopsy that shows aganglionosis, increased acetylcholinesterase activity, and/or hyperplasia of parasympathetic fibers. Infants with HD usually require surgical correction (i.e., removal of the affected segment of the colon and attachment of the normal ganglionic intestinal ends). Those with mild disease may be treated conservatively with diet, stool softeners, and laxatives.

Image File: 709-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5db84c3c46edb.jpg

Question Difficulty: 0

** Other Answers: **

**B - Lactulose therapy** - Pharmacotherapy with laxatives (e.g., lactulose) is used in infants with functional constipation who do not respond to nonpharmacologic measures such as prune juice. Functional constipation is the most common cause of constipation in infancy and childhood and may occur after the introduction of solids into the diet. However, infants with this condition typically have large stools rather than small, narrow stools, and rectal examination often shows a fecal mass in the rectal ampulla. Moreover, this patient has alarming signs (e.g., early onset of constipation, failure to thrive, empty ampulla on rectal examination), which require further evaluation before initiating therapy.

**C - Quantitative pilocarpine iontophoresis** - Quantitative pilocarpine iontophoresis is the gold standard test for diagnosing cystic fibrosis (CF), which can manifest with constipation and failure to thrive. This patient did not undergo newborn screening, which includes screening for CF, so an early diagnosis of this condition might have been missed. However, she has no other signs or symptoms suggestive of cystic fibrosis (e.g., persistent pulmonary infections, pancreatic insufficiency). Moreover, her history of small, narrow stools and rectal examination findings suggest a different diagnosis, for which another step in management is indicated.

**D - Gluten-free diet** - A gluten-free diet is indicated for children with celiac disease, which can manifest with constipation and failure to thrive in a 12-month-old child. The mother's history of celiac disease puts the patient at high risk for developing the condition. However, the history of small, narrow stools and rectal examination findings suggest a different diagnosis, for which another step in management is indicated.

**E - Thyroid function tests** - Thyroid function tests are used to evaluate for acquired or congenital hypothyroidism, which can manifest with failure to thrive and constipation. This patient did not undergo newborn screening, which includes the measurement of TSH levels, so an early diagnosis of congenital hypothyroidism may have been missed. However, during the first year of life, patients with congenital hypothyroidism typically also develop features such as lethargy, hoarse cry, puffed face, macroglossia, umbilical hernia, and hypotonia. Moreover, the passage of small, narrow stools and an empty ampulla on rectal examination is not associated with hypothyroidism.

