### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Schizoaffective disorder** - Schizoaffective disorder is characterized by features of schizophrenia and a mood disorder (major depressive disorder or bipolar disorder). Mood symptoms only appear in the presence of psychosis and manifest for the majority of the total duration of the illness. In addition, features of schizophrenia must be present for > 2 weeks in the absence of mood symptoms. Schizophrenic features in this patient include hallucinations (hearing voices) and negative symptoms (flat affect); his hallucinations have been present for 7 months. He also has depressive symptoms that began 5 months ago, including feelings of worthlessness, weight change due to appetite change, diminished concentration, low energy, and hypersomnia.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Mood disorder with psychotic features** - Mood disorder with psychotic features is characterized by the presence of both mood symptoms (e.g., depressive symptoms) and psychotic symptoms (e.g., hallucinations). Psychotic symptoms manifest exclusively during the depressive episode. This patient's auditory hallucinations started 7 months ago, and his depressive symptoms started 5 months ago. The presence of psychotic symptoms for a period of time in the absence of a mood disorder rules out a diagnosis of mood disorder with psychotic features.

**B - Schizotypal personality disorder** - Schizotypal personality disorder is characterized by odd and eccentric behavior with magical thinking and social anxiety. Magical thinking is the attribution of causal relationships where there is no evidence for their existence (e.g., that the number 13 causes bad luck or that a certain gesture can ward off evil). In contrast, this patient has auditory hallucinations in combination with features of major depressive disorder (e.g., feelings of worthlessness, diminished concentration), which are not features of schizotypal personality disorder.

**D - Brief psychotic disorder** - Brief psychotic disorder is characterized by psychotic symptoms that last between 1 day and 1 month. However, this patient's auditory hallucinations started 7 months ago.

**E - Schizophreniform disorder** - Schizophreniform disorder is characterized by psychotic symptoms that last for 1–6 months. However, this patient's auditory hallucinations started 7 months ago. Moreover, patients with schizophreniform disorder do not have significant mood symptoms; this patient's feelings of worthlessness, weight loss due to appetite change, diminished concentration, low energy, and hypersomnia are features of major depressive disorder.

**F - Schizophrenia** - This patient has features of schizophrenia, including hallucinations (hearing voices) and negative symptoms (flat affect). However, he also has features of major depressive disorder, including feelings of worthlessness, weight change due to appetite change, diminished concentration, low energy, and hypersomnia. The combination of symptoms of schizophrenia and a concurrent mood disorder indicates a different diagnosis.

