### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Counseling for lifestyle and dietary modification** - This patient has constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). According to the Rome IV criteria, a diagnosis of IBS can be made in a patient with recurrent abdominal pain (at least once per week for ≥ 3 months) and ≥ 2 of the following: pain related to defecation (increases or decreases), change in stool frequency, and change in stool consistency (all of which are seen here). The workup of constipation includes a detailed medical history, physical examination (including rectal examination), complete blood count, and sometimes a fecal occult blood test to identify alarm features that are inconsistent with IBS and indicate underlying organic disease. Further laboratory tests and imaging are generally not recommended for individuals < 50 years with a typical presentation of IBS and no alarm features (e.g., nighttime diarrhea, blood in stools, weight loss, anemia, family history of colon cancer or inflammatory bowel disease). Treatment includes patient education regarding the chronic nature of IBS, lifestyle modifications (e.g., physical activity, stress management), dietary adjustments (e.g., adequate hydration, low FODMAP diet), and psychological therapy. If patients are refractory to first-line treatment, symptom-based medication (antidiarrheals, laxatives, antispasmodic) may be necessary.

In patients with suspected IBS and diarrhea as the predominant symptom, additional testing (e.g., fecal calprotectin or fecal lactoferrin, stool antigen test for Giardia lamblia, serological celiac disease testing, and CRP levels) is indicated.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Trial of osmotic laxative therapy** - A trial of osmotic laxative therapy (e.g., polyethylene glycol, lactulose) can be used in the treatment of constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). IBS is best treated in incremental steps, however, with conservative approaches first before pharmacotherapy.

**B - Measurement of serum electrolyte and thyroid-stimulatory hormone concentrations** - Evaluation for secondary causes of constipation (e.g., hypokalemia, hypercalcemia, hypothyroidism) is indicated in patients who have additional clinical features suggestive of these conditions (e.g., muscle weakness, bone pain, bradycardia, weight gain), or if the constipation is refractory to conservative management.

**D - Lower gastrointestinal barium study** - Lower gastrointestinal barium studies (e.g., barium enema, defecography, radiopaque colon transit studies) can help identify constipation that is due to slow colonic transit or dyssynergic defecation. However, these examinations are only indicated in patients with chronic constipation that does not improve with conservative management or if there is evidence of rectal dyssynergia on the initial rectal examination (e.g., insufficient relaxation of the anal sphincter).

**E - Flexible sigmoidoscopy** - Flexible sigmoidoscopy and colonoscopy are indicated to rule out organic gastrointestinal disease (e.g., colorectal cancer, inflammatory bowel disease) in patients with abdominal pain and constipation. However, endoscopy is generally not recommended as part of the initial evaluation for individuals < 50 years without alarm features (e.g., nighttime diarrhea, bloody stools, unintended weight loss, anemia, family history of colon cancer or inflammatory bowel disease)

