### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Gilbert syndrome** - Gilbert syndrome is a common, inherited hyperbilirubinemia condition that causes mild excess (< 3 mg/dL) of indirect bilirubin (unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia), scleral icterus (without generalized jaundice), and fatigue, commonly after a period of stress and/or fasting. Since Gilbert syndrome is not associated with liver damage, AST, ALT, and GGT values are normal. The lack of concerning findings, such as lymphadenopathy, right upper quadrant tenderness, or hepatomegaly, is also consistent with this condition.

Image File: 716-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fec738a5ed05.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Drug-induced hepatitis** - Drug-induced hepatitis can be caused by many drugs, including both primaquine and nitrofurantoin. The presentation of drug-induced liver injury can range from asymptomatic to extremely ill in fulminant liver failure. Laboratory studies show a hepatocellular pattern of injury (↑ AST and ALT) and/or a cholestatic pattern (↑ ALP). Hyperbilirubinemia can be direct or indirect, depending on whether it results from liver injury or secondary hemolysis. This patient has normal values for AST, ALT, and ALP, making this diagnosis unlikely.

**B - Hepatitis A infection** - Hepatitis A infection is endemic to Guatemala and Central America. It often presents with fatigue, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, jaundice, and right upper abdominal pain. The incubation period is 2–6 weeks between infection and the onset of symptoms. Although this patient's presentation could be explained by hepatitis A, a positive anti-HAV IgG indicates immunity to the virus (likely as a result of previous vaccination or infection).

**D - Rotor syndrome** - Rotor Syndrome causes direct hyperbilirubinemia. Most patients are asymptomatic and diagnosis is made after routine laboratory testing demonstrates mild to moderate direct hyperbilirubinemia. It can be differentiated from other causes of direct hyperbilirubinemia through identification of increased urinary coproporphyrin and normal liver histology on biopsy.

**E - Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency** - Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency (G6PD deficiency) is an X-linked recessive disorder that can cause a similar presentation to that described here: nonspecific findings such as generalized fatigue, nausea, and diminished appetite along with mild jaundice. Moreover, this patient has a history of recent primaquine usage, a medication that can lead to symptoms of G6PD deficiency. However, a blood smear would show Heinz bodies rather than this patient's normal findings.

**F - Dubin-Johnson syndrome** - Dubin-Johnson Syndrome causes direct hyperbilirubinemia and often presents with non-specific symptoms in adolescents, especially after administration of certain drugs (classically oral contraceptives). This patient has an elevated indirect bilirubin level, which rules this condition out.

**G - Hepatitis B infection** - Hepatitis B virus is endemic to Central America. The acute clinical presentation is similar to other acute hepatitis viral infections, and consists of fatigue, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, fever, and possibly jaundice. Most individuals will clear the virus, but some may go on to develop chronic HBV infection. Although this patient's presentation could be explained by acute hepatitis B, the presence of anti-HBs most likely indicates immunity to the virus (as a result of previous vaccination) or late convalescence.

**H - Crigler-Najjar syndrome** - Crigler-Najjar Syndrome is a rare cause of indirect hyperbilirubinemia. In its most severe form, Crigler-Najjar type I, affected neonates demonstrate exceptionally high levels of indirect bilirubin and often require liver transplantation. Crigler-Najjar type II is more mild; affected individuals experience random, intermittent periods of jaundice. Typically phenobarbital is prescribed to induce the production of the underlying, partially deficient UDP-glucuronosyltransferase enzyme. Although Crigler-Najjar type II cannot be ruled out entirely, the rarity of the condition and the timing of jaundice developing after a stressful period make this diagnosis less likely.

