### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Intraperitoneal hemorrhage** - Hepatic hemangioma is a benign tumor composed of cavernous vascular spaces of variable size that are lined by flat endothelial cells. They are most common in women between the ages of 30-50 years old and may become enlarged during hormonal therapy. Most hepatic hemangiomas are asymptomatic and diagnosed incidentally on imaging, appearing hyperechogenic (due to increased vascularity), well-demarcated, and homogeneous. Being a highly vascular tumor, biopsy represents a high risk of severe hemorrhage and is not recommended unless the diagnosis is uncertain.

Image File: 717-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59dd194d64f78.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Biliary peritonitis** - Biliary peritonitis occurs when bile leaks out of the gallbladder or bile ducts and can occur due to inadvertent penetration of the biliary tract during a liver biopsy. Although this is a possible complication of liver biopsy for any condition, it is extremely rare and thus does not present the complication with the greatest risk for this patient.

**C - Bacteremia** - Biopsy of an intrahepatic abscess (pyogenic liver abscess or amebic liver abscess) risks spreading the infectious focus into the abdominal cavity and bloodstream and should only be performed when laboratory studies and imaging are inconclusive. Although RUQ pain is a common manifestation of liver abscess, most patients also present with fever or other systemic complaints. Ultrasonography of a liver abscess would show poorly demarcated, fluid-filled, hypoechoic lesion(s) within the hepatic parenchyma with surrounding edema and hyperemia, rather than the findings seen here.

Image File: 717-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_608fe83a67e16.jpg

**D - Metastatic spread** - Biopsy of a malignant hepatic lesion (e.g., hepatocellular carcinoma) can seed tumor cells throughout the track of the biopsy needle, risking metastatic spread. Although HCC may manifest with nonspecific RUQ pain, as seen in this patient, ultrasonography would typically show an ill-defined mass with irregular borders and variable echogenicity with areas of necrosis and calcification. Furthermore, HCC would be unlikely in this healthy woman without any significant past medical history.

**E - Anaphylactic shock** - Biopsy of a hepatic hydatid cyst can result in anaphylaxis due to the release of the highly antigenic hydatid fluid. In an unruptured cyst, the echinococcal antigens evade the host's immune system; sudden exposure to hydatid fluid triggers a hyperacute immune reaction. Hepatic hydatid cyst can manifest as non-specific abdominal pain, as seen in this patient, but ultrasonography would typically show a unilocular, anechoic, well-defined cyst with hyperdense internal septa (spoke-wheel pattern), usually with daughter cysts floating within. Furthermore, this patient does not have any stated risk factors for Echinococcal infection (e.g., ingestion of contaminated food, travel to endemic region).

