### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Crohn disease** - Crohn disease is an inflammatory bowel disease that commonly affects young adults and adolescents 15–35 years of age. It is more common in white populations and people of Jewish descent (especially Ashkenazi Jews, such as this patient). Nicotine exposure (e.g., this patient's 30 pack-year smoking history) is an additional risk factor. Diarrhea is a common clinical feature that often results in malabsorption and weight loss. As a result of intestinal blood loss, anemia of chronic disease, and vitamin B12 malabsorption, patients can develop anemia. Barium enema can show the string sign (i.e., marked narrowing of the bowel lumen caused by strictures); endoscopy confirms the diagnosis.

Image File: 720-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9231f628.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ulcerative colitis** - Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory bowel disease that is characterized by colonic inflammation. It is most commonly seen in individuals 15–35 years of age and can manifest with abdominal pain, weight loss, anemia, and an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate. However, bloody diarrhea and fever are also common features of ulcerative colitis, which are not seen in this patient. In addition, barium enema will not show bowel lumen strictures and instead would show involvement of the rectum.

**B - Celiac disease** - Celiac disease is an autoimmune disorder characterized by a maladaptive immune response to gluten. This condition commonly affects women during the third or fourth decades of life and can cause chronic diarrhea, weight loss from malabsorption, and anemia. However, barium enema will not show ulcerations or bowel strictures. Barium studies are not typically used to evaluate celiac disease but, if obtained, may show small intestinal dilation.

**C - Intestinal carcinoid tumor** - Metastatic intestinal carcinoid tumors can cause abdominal pain, diarrhea, and weight loss. However, extraintestinal symptoms are typically also present (e.g., cutaneous flushing, asthmatic wheezing) due to high serum concentrations of serotonin. Additionally, intestinal carcinoid tumors are usually located in the small bowel; they are unlikely to cause the findings seen in the right colon on this patient's barium enema.

**D - Irritable bowel syndrome** - Irritable bowel syndrome can cause chronic abdominal pain, diarrhea, and tenesmus. However, this condition does not typically result in weight loss, anemia, or elevated inflammatory markers. In addition, it is unlikely to cause the findings seen in the right colon on this patient's barium enema.

**F - Diverticulitis** - Diverticulitis can cause abdominal pain, tenesmus, and elevated inflammatory markers. However, this disease would be an unusual diagnosis in a young patient, and especially in a vegetarian, because this population tends to consume food rich in fiber. Also, pain associated with diverticulitis is usually located in the left lower quadrant and not in the right lower quadrant. In addition, diverticulitis is unlikely to cause the findings seen in the right colon on this patient's barium enema.

Image File: 720-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d908607eb.jpg

