### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Pancreatic enzyme therapy** - Pancreatic enzyme therapy with orally administered enzyme preparations is recommended for the treatment of chronic pancreatitis. Pancreatic enzymes improve the breakdown and absorption of food, resulting in weight gain and reduced stool frequency. This therapy also reduces the secretion of duodenal cholecystokinin, leading to decreased pancreatic stimulation and less pain. In addition, this patient should be counseled on lifestyle modifications regarding cessation of alcohol and smoking, consumption of small meals low in fat, and adequate hydration.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Gluten-free diet** - A gluten-free diet is the recommended treatment for celiac disease. A patient with celiac disease would present with some of the features seen in this patient, such as abdominal pain and weight loss. However, celiac disease does not cause pancreatic calcifications on abdominal CT. Given the CT findings and the presence of epigastric tenderness, a diagnosis of pancreatitis is more likely.

**B - Whipple procedure** - Whipple procedure provides effective pain relief in 85% of patients with chronic pancreatitis. However, a surgical approach to pain relief is only considered if conservative management (i.e., medical therapy, lifestyle modifications) is not effective. In addition, Whipple procedure is the first-line treatment option in patients with suspected pancreatic cancer. Since this patient has not attempted conservative therapy and CT scan shows no evidence of pancreatic cancer, a surgical approach would not be appropriate.

**C - Opioid therapy** - Oral analgesics should be prescribed for pain relief in patients with chronic pancreatitis. However, opioids should not be used as a first-line drug for pain control because of the risk of opioid addiction and should only be considered in the case of severe pain. Substance use disorder related to prescription opioids is a serious public health issue affecting nearly 1% of the US population, and every attempt must be made to adhere to the WHO analgesic pain ladder.

**D - Endoscopic stent placement** - In patients with chronic pancreatitis who have abdominal pain that is resistant to conservative therapy, decompression of the bile duct is indicated if pancreatic duct dilation of ≥ 6 mm is present. ERCP with endoscopic sphincterotomy and the placement of a stent may be offered as an alternative to decompress the pancreatic duct if surgical decompression (e.g., Frey's procedure) cannot be performed. However, this patient has not yet received conservative treatment, nor is a dilated pancreatic duct seen on CT.

**F - High-fiber diet** - A high-fiber diet is associated with multiple health benefits such as a lower risk of dyslipidemia, type 2 diabetes mellitus, colorectal cancer, and gallstones, but would not be of help in treating this patient's condition.

**G - Celiac ganglion block** - Celiac ganglion block may offer temporary relief for patients with intractable pain due to chronic pancreatitis. However, this intervention is generally recommended only after other pain management strategies fail.

