### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Gluten-free diet** - A lifelong gluten-free diet is the treatment of choice for celiac disease. Normally, the next step in diagnosis would be a biopsy. However, if the patient could not receive a biopsy (either because of a contraindication or personal preference), then an empiric trial of a gluten-free diet would be the most appropriate next step. The patient's response will then help to either confirm or reject the diagnosis of celiac disease.

Image File: 726-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ee380ebc738f.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Probiotic therapy** - Probiotic therapy can be used for irritable bowel syndrome, among other conditions. Although IBS can cause abdominal discomfort, it is not associated with a positive IgA TTGA or Turner syndrome, and would not cause iron deficiency anemia.

**B - Tetracycline therapy** - Tetracyclines are used to treat tropical sprue, which can present very similarly to Celiac disease, typically beginning with an acute attack before settling into a chronic phase. However, the patient's risk factors and a positive IgA TTGA make another diagnosis more likely. A biopsy would conclusively rule out tropical sprue, but the patient has refused to undergo one.

**C - Metronidazole therapy** - Metronidazole is indicated for giardiasis, which typically manifests with symptoms similar to the ones seen in this patient and is common in Southeast Asia. However, the incubation period is 7–14 days, meaning her symptoms should have begun soon after her trip. It also would not explain this patient's positive IgA TTGA.

**D - Sulfasalazine therapy** - Sulfasalazines are a first-line therapy for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). However, this patient does not have the classic symptoms associated with either Crohn's disease (abdominal pain due to perianal abscesses/fistulas) or ulcerative colitis (bloody stool). Uveitis, arthritis, and skin manifestations such as pyoderma gangrenosum, are common in both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's, and this patient has none of these features. Furthermore, IBD is not associated with a positive IgA TTGA or Turner syndrome.

**E - Avoid milk products** - Milk products can cause gastrointestinal symptoms in individuals with lactose intolerance, which would be unlikely in a woman without a history indicating lactose intolerance at an earlier age. Additionally, lactose intolerance is not associated with a positive IgA TTGA or Turner syndrome, and would very rarely cause iron deficiency anemia in adults.

**F - Intravenous immunoglobulin therapy** - IVIG therapy is used to treat common variable immunodeficiency (CVID). CVID results in recurrent infections due to markedly reduced IgG, IgA, and/or IgM levels. The patient's history is not consistent with CVID. Moreover, a positive IgA TTGA would be very unlikely in a disease characterized by reduced antibody levels.

**H - Trimethoprim-sulfamethaxazole therapy** - TMP-SMX is used to treat Whipple's disease, which has a highly variable presentation but commonly manifests with diarrhea and gastrointestinal symptoms. Whipple's disease, however, typically involves extraintestinal symptoms such as arthritis and is not associated with a positive IgA TTGA.

