### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - CT angiography of the abdomen** - Abdominal CT angiography is a confirmatory test for chronic mesenteric ischemia (CMI), as it allows any occlusion in the splanchnic circulation to be visualized. In CMI, segments of the splanchnic circulation are stenosed due to atherosclerosis. These segments inhibit the normal postprandial increase in splanchnic circulation that is required for digestion, resulting in postprandial pain (intestinal angina), as seen here. Patients with CMI often develop an aversion to certain foods that trigger the pain (food fear) and lose weight. This patient has many risk factors for CMI, including as hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, chronic smoking, and coronary artery disease. As there is high index of suspicion for CMI in this patient, a CT angiography is most likely to confirm the diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Serum CA 19-9 concentration** - Serum CA 19-9 is a tumor marker used to monitor the progression of pancreatic cancer and its response to therapy; it is not a confirmatory test. A tumor in the body or tail of the pancreas can manifest with upper abdominal pain and weight loss as the sole complaints (unlike a tumor in the pancreatic head, which manifests with obstructive jaundice). However, in pancreatic cancer, the pain is typically continuous, radiates to the back, and is worse at night and when lying down. This patient's intermittent, postprandial, nonradiating epigastric pain suggests a diagnosis that does not cause an elevation in CA 19-9.

**B - Colonoscopy** - Colonoscopy is the preferred diagnostic test when a colonic disease (e.g., colon cancer, diverticulosis, IBD) is suspected. Colonic pathologies typically cause colicky abdominal pain that is unrelated to food intake and is associated with a significant alteration in bowel habits. This patient's upper abdominal pain, which becomes worse after meals, and occasional diarrhea is more consistent with an upper gastrointestinal pathology.

**C - Right upper quadrant abdominal ultrasound** - Right upper quadrant abdominal ultrasound is the preferred diagnostic test for gallbladder (GB) disease. Symptomatic cholelithiasis can manifest with intermittent postprandial upper abdominal pain (biliary colic) that is not relieved with acid suppression therapy, which is seen in this patient. However, as biliary colic does not typically occur after each meal, patients do not develop food aversion or lose weight. GB malignancy can manifest with significant weight loss and can be detected on a RUQ ultrasound, but it typically does not cause postprandial abdominal pain. This patient's symptoms suggest a diagnosis that cannot be confirmed with RUQ ultrasound.

**E - Endoscopic retrograde cholangiography** - Endoscopic retrograde cholangiography (ERCP) is used as a confirmatory test for choledocholithiasis and chronic pancreatitis (CP), either of which can manifest with upper abdominal pain that worsens after a meal. However, in CP, the pain usually radiates to the back and improves when the patient bends forward. Moreover, both conditions typically have pain-free intervals that can last several months. Finally, in choledocholithiasis, features of obstructive jaundice would be expected. This patient's progressively worsening, postprandial, nonradiating epigastric pain and history of CAD suggest a diagnosis that cannot be confirmed on ERCP.

**F - Urea breath test** - Urea breath test is a noninvasive method of confirming a diagnosis of H. pylori infection in patients with suspected peptic ulcer disease (PUD). PUD can manifest with postprandial epigastric pain, food aversion, and weight loss, and may also be resistant to PPI treatment in severe cases. However, this patient's history of cardiovascular disease, coronary artery bypass surgery, and smoking makes another diagnosis more likely. In addition, a urea breath test is only indicated in patients < 60 years without the presence of alarm symptoms. Because this man is > 60 years and presents with weight loss, an upper endoscopy with biopsy is the test of choice in patient's with suspected PUD and alarm symptoms.

