### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Abdominal x-ray** - Abdominal x-ray is the preferred diagnostic modality for toxic megacolon and should be ordered in all patients who present with bloody diarrhea, abdominal distention, and signs of sepsis. Dilation of the transverse colon > 6 cm on plain abdominal x-ray confirms the diagnosis. Loss of colonic haustration and multiple air-fluid levels indicate colonic dilation and paralytic ileus. Patients with inflammatory bowel disease, such as this patient, are at risk of developing toxic megacolon, especially early in the course of disease (∼ 5% lifetime risk).

Image File: 728-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5880a9ab79820.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Exploratory laparotomy** - Most cases of toxic megacolon can be managed conservatively. Indications for exploratory laparotomy for toxic megacolon include features of bowel perforation/ischemia (abdominal guarding, rebound tenderness, air under the diaphragm on radiology), massive gastrointestinal hemorrhage, and no improvement of symptoms after 24–72 hours of conservative therapy. This patient has no clinical signs of bowel ischemia/perforation and requires a confirmatory diagnostic test for toxic megacolon before initiating treatment.

**B - Topical sulfasalazine and oral prednisolone** - Topical sulfasalazine (suppositories) and oral prednisolone is the treatment regimen of choice in patients with severe UC, which is defined as ≥ 6 episodes of bloody diarrhea per day, severe abdominal cramps, systemic signs of toxicity (fever, tachycardia), and anemia or ESR ≥ 30 mm/hour. Although this patient fulfills most of these criteria, the presence of abdominal distension on examination is suggestive of toxic megacolon, which should first be confirmed before initiating treatment. If confirmed, IV steroids (not oral) should be administered. Sulfasalazine has no role in treating toxic megacolon. Topical sulfasalazine and oral prednisolone should be initiated in this patient as soon as toxic megacolon has resolved.

**D - CT angiography** - CT angiography is a confirmatory test used to diagnose acute mesenteric ischemia, which can present with an acute onset of bloody diarrhea, abdominal pain and distention, hypoactive bowel sounds, and, in case of bowel necrosis, signs of sepsis. However, AMI usually occurs in patients > 60 years of age with cardiovascular risk factors. This 36-year-old patient presents with a 4-week history of intermittent bloody diarrhea and he lacks risk factors for the development of AMI, such as atrial fibrillation, valvular heart disease, or a recent history of critical illness.

**E - Abdominal CT scan with contrast** - A contrast-enhanced CT scan (CECT) has a limited role in the diagnosis of toxic megacolon. CT scan can be considered if the first-line diagnostic modality is inconclusive or to better identify possible complications of toxic megacolon, such as perforation and bowel ischemia.

**F - IV metronidazole and rectal vancomycin** - IV metronidazole and rectal vancomycin is the preferred treatment in patients with toxic megacolon due to Clostridioides difficile infection. As this patient has a history of UC, is not adherent to the treatment regimen for UC, and has no history of recent antibiotic use (an important risk factor for C. difficile infection), he is more likely to have toxic megacolon due to an acute flare-up of UC. In either case, a clinical diagnosis of toxic megacolon should be confirmed before initiating treatment.

**G - Double-contrast barium enema** - Double-contrast barium enema is an imaging modality used in the investigation of undiagnosed UC because it can identify fine mucosal changes (e.g., microulcerations, pseudopolyps) that may be missed on other imaging modalities. However, the diagnosis of UC has already been established in this patient. More importantly, barium enema is contraindicated in patients with suspected toxic megacolon because it would further increase colonic distension and thus risk causing colonic perforation.

**H - Colonoscopy** - Colonoscopy is useful for the diagnosis of inflammatory bowel diseases such as UC. However, patients with toxic megacolon have a grossly dilated colon that is often friable due to the transmural inflammation and bowel wall ischemia. This increases the risk of colonic perforation during colonoscopy, making it contraindicated in patients with suspected toxic megacolon.

