### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Perforation** - Peptic ulcer perforation occurs when an ulcer erodes through all the layers of the bowel, allowing spillage of gastric or duodenal contents into surrounding structures. It is the second most common complication of chronic PUD, bleeding being the first. The most common location for peptic ulcer perforation is the anterior duodenum. Ulcers of the anterior duodenum usually perforate into the peritoneal cavity, in contrast to ulcers of the posterior duodenum, which tend to cause massive bleeding (e.g., hematemesis) from the adjacent gastroduodenal artery.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Hematemesis** - GI bleeding is the most common complication of all peptic ulcers, regardless of location. However, a massive upper GI bleed, manifesting with hematemesis and hemodynamic changes, is most commonly caused by posterior duodenal ulcers because of the proximity of the gastroduodenal artery to the posterior wall of the duodenal bulb. Although this patient's anterior duodenal ulcer might be complicated by anemia due to chronic GI bleeding, it is less likely to be complicated by a massive GI bleed.

Image File: 729-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b279c38c00f3.jpg

**C - MALT lymphoma** - MALT lymphoma is a complication of chronic H. pylori infection of the stomach. It develops due to accumulation and persistent activation of T cells and B cells in response to chronic infection of the gastric mucosa. Although H. pylori accounts for most duodenal ulcers, MALT lymphomas are typically localized to the stomach and are very rare in the duodenum.

**D - Gastric outlet obstruction** - Gastric outlet obstruction (GOO) is most commonly caused by a malignancy. A duodenal peptic ulcer can cause acute GOO (due to inflammation and edema) or chronic GOO (due to scarring and fibrosis) but a different complication is much more likely to occur than GOO.

**E - Adenocarcinoma** - Adenocarcinoma of the stomach is a rare complication of chronic gastric ulcers. For reasons yet unknown, duodenal ulcers are generally benign and do not undergo malignant transformation. This patient is therefore unlikely to develop adenocarcinoma as a complication.

**F - Pernicious anemia** - Pernicious anemia is a complication of autoimmune gastritis, which affects the body and fundus of the stomach and is characterized by glandular atrophy with lymphocytic infiltrates in the lamina propria. This patient with a duodenal peptic ulcer is likely to develop microcytic anemia (due to chronic GI bleeding), not pernicious anemia.

Image File: 729-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_594be0c45a5eb.jpg

