### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Lysergic acid diethylamide** - This patient has most likely used lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), a hallucinogenic drug that primarily acts by activating 5-HT2A receptors and D2 receptors in the CNS. Vivid visual hallucinations and distorted time perception are characteristic features of LSD use, but patients can also experience anxiety, agitation, and paranoid delusions (a “bad trip”). In addition, LSD has sympathomimetic effects such as tachycardia, hypertension, and mydriasis. Treatment consists of supportive care, reassurance, and, if needed, antipsychotics for psychosis and benzodiazepines for anxiety.

Symptoms of hallucinogen intoxication typically resolve spontaneously after 6–12 hours. Long-term complications include persistent psychosis and hallucinogen persisting perception disorder.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Phencyclidine** - Phencyclidine can cause visual hallucinations, paranoid delusions, agitation, tachycardia, and hypertension, all of which are seen here. However, dilated pupils and distorted time perception are not typical features of intoxication with this drug. Instead, patients usually present with miosis. Furthermore, phencyclidine intoxication typically manifests with nystagmus and aggressive behavior, neither of which are seen in this patient.

**C - Heroin** - Heroin (an opiate) is associated with respiratory depression, bradycardia, hypotension, and miosis. This patient, however, presents with tachypnea, tachycardia, hypertension, and mydriasis. While these symptoms, as well as agitation, may be seen in heroin withdrawal, hallucinations and distorted time perception are not typical features of heroin use or withdrawal.

**D - Cannabis** - Acute cannabis use can cause distorted time perception and paranoid delusions, which are seen here. Acute cannabis use can also cause mild tachycardia and a slight increase in pupillary diameter (by 0.4–0.5 mm) as well as systolic blood pressure (by approx. 3 mm Hg). However, acute cannabis use is not associated with diastolic hypertension, and visual hallucinations are unusual with cannabis use. This patient's visual hallucinations and significantly increased systolic and diastolic blood pressures suggest the use of a different drug.

**E - Cocaine** - Cocaine can cause tachycardia, hypertension, mydriasis, agitation, and, occasionally, features of psychosis (e.g., visual hallucinations, paranoid delusions), all of which are seen here. However, distorted time perception would not be expected; this symptom suggests the use of a different drug.

**F - Methamphetamine** - Methamphetamine can cause mydriasis, hypertension, tachycardia, and, occasionally, features of psychosis (e.g., hallucinations, paranoid delusions), all of which are seen here. However, distorted time perception is not a feature of methamphetamine use; this symptom suggests a different drug.

