### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Exotoxin-mediated inflammation of the colon** - This patient's history of diffuse abdominal pain, nonbloody, watery diarrhea, and fever after surgery, along with the CT scan findings, indicates Clostridioides difficile infection. This patient most likely received perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis, which can adversely damage the bacterial flora of the colon, leading to overgrowth of C. difficile, a bacteria resistant to many commonly used antibiotics. C. difficile releases exotoxins A and B, which damage the colonic epithelium, leading to a disruption of the intestinal barrier function and an exotoxin-mediated inflammation of the colon. In severe cases of infection, CT scan findings can show evidence of pseudomembranous colitis, as seen here. This patient also presents with signs of moderate dehydration (dry mucous membranes), a common complication in patients with C. difficile associated diarrhea.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Viral infection of the gastrointestinal tract** - Viral infection of the gastrointestinal tract is seen in viral gastroenteritis, which can cause acute onset diffuse abdominal pain, nonbloody, watery diarrhea, dehydration, and fever, all of which are present in this patient. However, this condition typically causes nausea and vomiting, which are not seen here. Finally, a CT scan would show mild colonic edema but not trapping of contrast material between haustral folds.

**C - Hypoperfusion of the rectosigmoid junction** - Hypoperfusion of the rectosigmoid junction is seen in ischemic colitis, which manifests with acute onset abdominal pain, abdominal tenderness with guarding, and diarrhea, all of which are seen here. Furthermore, this patient's CT scan findings are consistent with colitis. Although major surgeries with large volume losses are a risk factor for this condition, this patient's surgery was uncomplicated and therefore most likely did not put him at increased risk for ischemic colitis. Furthermore, this condition causes bloody rather than nonbloody diarrhea and is more common in older patients (usually > 60 years of age).

**D - T-cell mediated autoimmune inflammation of the intestines** - T-cell mediated autoimmune inflammation of the intestines is seen in ulcerative colitis, which causes diffuse abdominal pain, diarrhea, and fever, all of which are seen here. Moreover, this patient has a family history of IBD, which is a known risk factor for ulcerative colitis. However, patients usually have bloody rather than nonbloody diarrhea, and the onset of symptoms is usually progressive rather than acute. Finally, a CT scan may show bowel wall thickening but trapping of contrast material between haustral folds is not common.

**E - Acute colonic dilation with pseudo-obstruction** - Acute colonic dilation with pseudo-obstruction is seen in acute megacolon, which can affect patients following surgery and manifests with abdominal pain and diarrhea, both seen in this patient. However, a CT scan usually shows colonic dilation, not a thickened edematous colon with trapping of contrast material between haustral folds.

**F - Protozoal colonization of the intestinal wall** - Protozoal colonization of the intestinal wall is seen in acute giardiasis, which manifests with nonbloody diarrhea, dehydration, and abdominal pain. Although giardiasis occurs worldwide, travelers, like this patient, are at increased risk of infection via contaminated water. However, while a CT scan in giardiasis can show mild intestinal edema, a thickened edematous colon with trapping of contrast material between haustral folds is not expected.

