### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - D** - This set of labs is consistent with alcoholic hepatitis, which fits with this patient's clinical presentation (i.e., chronic alcohol use, hepatomegaly, scleral icterus). The moderate elevation of serum aminotransferase with an AST:ALT ratio > 2 seen here is characteristic of this condition and indicates severe hepatocellular injury. A finding of elevated GGT is a strong indicator of excessive alcohol consumption over a period of several weeks. In addition, an MCV > 100 μm3 indicates macrocytosis, which is a typical consequence of excessive drinking that results from alcohol-induced bone marrow toxicity; megaloblastic anemia as a result of poor nutrition (i.e., folate deficiency or Vitamin B12 deficiency) is also common. While an isolated GGT elevation is sometimes the only indicator of heavy alcohol use, carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (CDT) is a more specific marker to detect alcohol use disorder.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - This set of labs shows elevated serum aminotransferases (AST, ALT) and GGT levels, both of which are seen in alcoholic liver disease. However, an AST:ALT ratio < 1 is inconsistent with liver damage due to alcohol use. Moreover, a normal MCV is an unlikely finding in a patient with chronic heavy drinking and conjunctival pallor. This constellation of findings may be seen in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which is a diagnosis of exclusion in patients with no history of chronic heavy drinking.

**B - B** - This set of labs shows both ALT and AST elevated more than 25 times the upper limit of normal, which is consistent with fulminant hepatitis caused by massive damage to hepatocytes (e.g., acetaminophen toxicity, viral hepatitis). While GGT elevation is seen in both fulminant hepatitis and alcoholic liver disease, the latter is not associated with such an extreme increase in serum aminotransferases. Moreover, a normal MCV is an unlikely finding in a patient with chronic heavy drinking and conjunctival pallor.

**C - C** - This set of labs shows an isolated elevation of AST, which can be seen with muscle damage or myocardial infarction. Although an increase of AST is expected in alcoholic liver disease, an isolated elevation is not specific for liver disease because AST is found in many types of tissue. Moreover, a normal MCV is an unlikely finding in a patient with chronic alcohol use and conjunctival pallor.

**E - E** - This set of labs shows elevation of both ALT and AST, which is typical of alcoholic hepatitis. However, an AST:ALT ratio < 1 is inconsistent with liver damage due to chronic heavy drinking. Moreover, although this patient's conjunctival pallor indicates concomitant anemia, a MCV < 80 would not be expected. This constellation of findings may be seen in celiac disease. Hypertransaminasemia is present in nearly 50% of patients with celiac disease at the time of diagnosis and indicates subclinical hepatitis that may progress to severe liver disease and cirrhosis; microcytic anemia due to iron deficiency is the most common hematological manifestation.

