### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Infliximab-azathioprine combination therapy** - Infliximab-azathioprine combination therapy is the most appropriate therapy for patients with fistulizing moderate to severe CD, which this patient has. Moderate to severe CD includes patients presenting with significant symptoms (e.g., fever, abdominal pain, weight loss > 10%, intermittent nausea/vomiting, anemia) and/or patients unsuccessfully treated for mild to moderate disease; despite being treated with oral prednisone, this patient still has significant symptoms. Although less effective than combination therapy, anti-TNF monotherapy is a valid alternative to combination therapy in patients with contraindications for thiopurines. Other alternatives include ustekinumab and vedolizumab.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cyclosporine A therapy** - Cyclosporine A therapy is indicated for severe or refractory cases of ulcerative colitis, transplant rejection prophylaxis, severe rheumatoid arthritis, and moderate to severe cases of psoriasis. In patients with CD, cyclosporine A is only indicated for the treatment of pyoderma gangrenosum, which is not seen here.

**C - CIR budenoside therapy** - CIR budesonide therapy (i.e., budesonide with controlled ileal release) is an appropriate induction therapy for patients with mild to moderate CD with localized ileocecal disease. This patient, however, has fistulizing moderate to severe CD with perianal involvement, for which CIR budesonide therapy is not indicated.

**D - Proctocolectomy** - Proctocolectomy is a curative therapy for ulcerative colitis (UC) and is generally indicated if medical therapy fails or complications arise. As CD, which this patient likely has, UC manifests with abdominal pain and diarrhea. However, the diarrhea is typically bloody, and perianal fistulas are rare. Moreover, crypt abscesses and loss of haustra are typical findings on colonoscopy, and inflammation is limited to mucosa and submucosa. Surgical therapy is only indicated in patients with CD when medical therapy fails or patients develop severe complications (e.g., strictures, obstruction), which is not the case here.

**E - Sulfasalazine therapy** - Although its effectiveness in the treatment of CD is controversial, sulfasalazine is sometimes used in the treatment of patients with mild to moderate colonic and/or ileocolonic CD. This patient, however, has fistulizing moderate to severe CD, for which sulfasalazine therapy is not indicated.

