### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Cognitive behavioral therapy** - Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a first-line treatment for impulse-control disorders such as kleptomania. CBT helps patients identify and become aware of factors that trigger the urge to steal (e.g., stress) and acquire strategies to control their reactions to those triggers (e.g., relaxation techniques). While SSRIs and opioid antagonists may reduce the urge to steal and the pleasure associated with stealing, no medications for kleptomania have at this point been approved by the FDA. Since the legal and social consequences of kleptomania are significant (e.g., fines, imprisonment), treatment is of great importance.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administration of lithium** - Lithium is often used to treat bipolar disorder. While a patient experiencing a manic episode of bipolar disorder may engage in stealing, this patient lacks further symptoms of mania such as elevated mood, inflated self-esteem, or flight of ideas. While lithium may be effective in controlling the urge to steal in some patients with kleptomania, it has not been approved by the FDA for this condition.

**B - Interpersonal therapy** - Interpersonal therapy, primarily used to treat depressive disorders, is unlikely to benefit this patient with kleptomania. Although this patient presents with fatigue, difficulties concentrating, and worries, she does not meet the DSM-5 criteria for major depressive disorder or any other depressive disorder. There are other interventions more specific for the management of kleptomania that should be pursued in this patient.

**C - Administration of clozapine** - Clozapine is used in treatment-resistant schizophrenia. This patient does not have any psychotic symptoms such as visual or auditory hallucinations suggestive of schizophrenia.

**D - Dialectical behavioral therapy** - Dialectical behavioral therapy is often used to treat borderline personality disorder, eating disorders, and trauma-related disorders. While kleptomania is a disorder of impulse control, this patient's feelings of shame and guilt about her actions separate her from the impulsivity without regard for consequences that is seen in borderline personality disorder. As, in addition, this patient has no history of eating disorder or trauma, this therapy is unlikely to benefit this patient.

**E - Psychodynamic psychotherapy** - Psychodynamic psychotherapy is indicated in patients whose problems appear to be linked to unconscious past experiences and has proven to be especially effective in patients with anxiety disorders (e.g., social anxiety disorder). As kleptomania is viewed as a bio-medical disorder today, psychodynamic psychotherapy has been largely replaced by a different management approach.

**F - Administration of fluoxetine** - While the administration of fluoxetine has shown a reduction in the urge and pleasure associated with stealing in some individuals with kleptomania, it has not been approved by the FDA for treatment of this condition.

**H - Motivational interviewing** - Motivational interviewing is used to treat substance abuse disorders and depressive disorders. This patient does not have any history of substance use and does not meet the DSM-5 criteria for major depressive disorder or any other depressive disorder.

