### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Steatohepatitis** - The most common complications of metabolic syndrome include cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). NASH arises independently of alcohol use and occurs due to fatty infiltration of hepatocytes, hepatocyte necrosis, and, eventually, fibrosis of the liver. This woman is at high risk of NASH due to her metabolic syndrome and, therefore, at increased risk of developing liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma.

Image File: 743-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ec53db6077da.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Central sleep apnea** - Risk factors for the development of central sleep apnea include a history of cardiac abnormalities, chronic opioid use, and neurocognitive deficits. Although this patient's abdominal obesity puts her at increased risk of developing obstructive sleep apnea, she has no known risk factors for central sleep apnea.

**B - Osteoporosis** - Osteoporosis is most commonly seen in postmenopausal women. Although this 57-year-old patient is most likely postmenopausal, the risk of developing primary osteoporosis in a patient < 65 years of age is low. Additionally, obesity is actually a protective factor against the development of osteoporosis.

**D - Subarachnoid hemorrhage** - Metabolic syndrome is associated with peripheral vascular disease and atherosclerosis, both of which increase susceptibility to ischemic stroke. Subarachnoid hemorrhage, however, usually occurs due to trauma or aneurysm rupture; metabolic syndrome is not a known risk factor for subarachnoid hemorrhage.

**E - Rheumatoid arthritis** - Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory disease that is associated with certain HLA subtypes (e.g., HLA-DR4 and DR1). Given this patient's high BMI, she is at increased risk of developing degenerative osteoarthritis; there is no known association between metabolic syndrome and development of rheumatoid arthritis.

