### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Influenza vaccine** - Annual influenza vaccine is recommended during the flu season (October–April in the northern hemisphere) for all individuals aged 6 months and older unless contraindicated. The influenza vaccination helps prevent influenza and its complications, especially in vulnerable populations like older adults, very young children, pregnant women, and individuals with chronic medical conditions. This patient with diabetes would particularly benefit from receiving the influenza vaccine because he is at higher risk of developing complications. Because he works at an assisted-living facility, he is also at increased risk of contracting and spreading the infection.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hemoglobin A1c measurement** - The American Diabetes Association recommends twice yearly hemoglobin A1c testing in diabetic patients with stable glycemic control and quarterly testing in diabetic patients with uncontrolled glucose levels. This patient's HbA1c was tested 2 months ago. Since hemoglobin A1c gives information on the 3-month average glucose concentration in the blood, it would not be appropriate to retest it again at this visit.

**C - Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine 13** - The pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV-13) is advised for immunocompetent individuals aged 65 years and above, and immunocompromised populations, asplenic patients, or individuals with CSF leaks and cochlear implants between the ages of 19–64 years. Because this patient does not fall into either of the categories above, he does not need to be advised regarding PCV-13.

**D - Prostate-specific antigen measurement** - Prostate-specific antigen measurement is a screening strategy for prostate cancer, a common malignancy that is often asymptomatic in the initial stages. Current screening guidelines for prostate specific antigen testing are controversial. The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends individualized decision-making about screening based on patient preference after discussion with a clinician about the potential risks and benefits. This patient is 58 years old and may consider PSA screening, but there is another health maintenance recommendation that is clearly indicated.

**E - Colonoscopy** - The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening for colorectal cancer in all asymptomatic adults between 45 and 75 years of age who have an average risk (e.g., no inflammatory bowel disease, adenomatous polyps, or family history of an inherited cancer syndrome). Colonoscopy every 10 years is an appropriate strategy. Individuals with a first-degree relative (FDR) who have a history of colorectal cancer, like this patient, are generally recommended to obtain screening more frequently (every 5 years) and start earlier (40 years of age or 10 years before the youngest FDR's age at diagnosis). Because his last colonoscopy 3 years ago was normal, he does not require repeat screening at this time.

**F - Low-dose CT scan** - The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends annual screening for lung cancer with a low-dose computed tomography (LDCT) scan in adults aged 50–80 years who have a 20 pack-year smoking history and currently smoke or have quit within the past 15 years. Though this patient quit smoking 15 years ago, he has a smoking history of < 20 pack-years (one-half pack daily for 10 years is equivalent to 5 pack-years), so LDCT is not recommended for him.

