### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Low-dose CT scan of the chest** - Low-dose CT scan of the chest is indicated for lung cancer screening in adults aged 50 to 80 years, who have a ≥ 20 pack-year smoking history and currently smoke or have quit within the past 15 years. This recommendation replaces the previous 2013 USPSTF statement; the lower age cutoff has been changed from 55 to 50 years old, and the duration of the smoking history from 30 to 20 years. Once a person has not smoked for 15 years, the annual screening should be discontinued.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Sigmoidoscopy** - The USPSTF recommends screening for colorectal cancer in all asymptomatic adults between 45 and 75 years of age who have an average risk (e.g., no inflammatory bowel disease, adenomatous polyps, or family history of an inherited cancer syndrome). The previously recommended age to start screening was 50 years. Sigmoidoscopy every 5 years is an appropriate strategy. Because this patient had her last sigmoidoscopy 4 years ago, which was normal, and lacks symptoms suggestive of colorectal cancer (e.g., weight loss, hematochezia), sigmoidoscopy is not indicated at this time.

**C - Mammography** - Mammography is indicated for the screening of breast cancer in women aged 50–75 years. According to the latest 2016 USPSTF recommendation, mammography should be repeated every 2 years. This patient had a mammogram 6 months ago with normal findings and does not require any further testing right now.

**D - Pap smear** - According to the USPSTF recommendation, Pap smear is indicated for the screening of cervical cancer in women aged 21 to 65 years. Pap smear should be performed every 3 years if done alone, or every 5 years when performed as co-testing. Alternatively, in patients aged 30 to 65 years, the FDA-approved primary HPV tests performed every 5 years are sufficient for cervical cancer screening. This patient had HPV testing 3 years ago and does not require any further testing at this time.

**E - Ultrasound of the abdomen** - Ultrasound of the abdomen is indicated for the screening of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) in men aged 65–75 years with a history of smoking. The latest 2019 USPSTF guideline indicates that there is insufficient evidence to determine the net benefit of screening for AAA in women aged 65–75 years who have ever smoked or have a family history of AAA.

