### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Gentamicin** - Gentamicin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that is a known nephrotoxic agent. It is the most common cause of toxic ATN and typically causes damage to the proximal convoluted tubules, as seen on this patient's biopsy. ATN manifests with oliguria, uremia, and “muddy brown” granular casts within the first 2 weeks after kidney insult. Treatment includes discontinuation of nephrotoxic agents, supportive care, and dialysis as indicated.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Captopril** - Captopril is an ACE inhibitor used in the treatment of hypertension, heart failure, and chronic kidney disease. In cases of renal hypoperfusion, such as intravascular volume depletion and bilateral renal artery stenosis, ACE inhibitors can cause decreased GFR, elevated creatinine, and oliguria, as in this patient. However, ACE inhibitors would not result in ATN or significant findings on renal biopsy, making captopril an unlikely cause of this patient's renal failure.

**B - Aspirin** - Aspirin is a type of NSAID typically used in the management of pain, fever, inflammation, and cardiovascular disease prophylaxis. NSAIDs can cause allergic interstitial nephritis (AIN). AIN can manifest with oliguria and elevated creatinine, which are seen in this patient. However, this patient lacks other features of AIN, e.g., fever, rash, and eosinophiluria. Additionally, renal biopsy in AIN shows interstitial edema with mononuclear infiltrate. This is inconsistent with this patient's biopsy findings, making aspirin an unlikely cause of his renal failure.

**C - Acyclovir** - Acyclovir is an antiviral agent used to treat herpes simplex virus and varicella zoster. Acyclovir can cause crystal-induced acute kidney injury, which can manifest with an elevated creatinine and proteinuria. However, in the case of crystal-induced nephropathy, crystals would be visible on urine microscopy rather than granular casts. Acyclovir is therefore an unlikely cause of this patient's renal failure.

**D - Omeprazole** - Omeprazole is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) commonly used to treat peptic ulcer disease and dyspepsia. A rare side effect of PPI agents is allergic interstitial nephritis (AIN). AIN can manifest with oliguria and an elevated creatinine, as in this patient. However, this patient lacks other classic features of AIN, e.g., fever, rash, and eosinophiluria. Additionally, renal biopsy in AIN shows interstitial edema with mononuclear infiltrate. This is inconsistent with this patient's biopsy findings, making omeprazole an unlikely cause of his renal failure.

