### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Gender dysphoria** - The DSM-5 defines gender dysphoria as significant longstanding distress (≥ 6 months) caused by the incongruence between a person's experienced/expressed gender and assigned gender (i.e., transgender identity). This adolescent who identifies as female has shown signs of gender nonconformity from a young age, including rejection of typically masculine toys, preference for activities commonly associated with girls (i.e., dressing up dolls), and a preference for female friends. Most gender-nonconforming children do not experience gender dysphoria. However, the physical changes during puberty often trigger feelings of distress and discomfort that may lead to impairment of important areas of function, as seen here.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Gender nonconformity** - Gender nonconformity describes a behavior or gender expression that does not match the norms of an individual's assigned gender but is not associated with distress or social/functional impairment. This genetically male adolescent has shown signs of gender nonconformity from a young age (rejection of typically masculine toys, preference for dressing up dolls, preference for female playmates) and displays a strong association with the female gender (wears dresses, asks to be called by a female name). However, the gender incongruence in this adolescent has caused significant distress and interfered with school and social function, which is not consistent with the diagnosis of gender nonconformity.

**B - Sexual aversion** - Sexual aversion is defined as a sexual dysfunction disorder characterized by an extreme unwillingness and avoidance of sexual contact, which leads to significant distress and/or interpersonal conflicts. This adolescent presents with distress and functional impairment caused by a mismatch between genetic sex (male) and gender identification (female). However, the adolescent does not report any sexual partners, and there is no evidence of a sexual dysfunction disorder.

**C - Body dysmorphic disorder** - The DSM-5 defines body dysmorphic disorder (BDD) as a psychiatric disorder characterized by persistent preoccupation with a perceived flaw in one's physical appearance that is mild or not observable by others. This leads to significant distress and/or impairment in functioning. However, incongruence between a person's experienced/expressed gender and their biological sex, as seen here, is not considered BDD.

**D - Transvestic disorder** - The DSM-5 defines transvestic disorder as a paraphilic disorder characterized by the persistent and intense sexual arousal caused by wearing clothes associated with the opposite gender (i.e., cross-dressing). Unlike transvestism, transvestic disorder is associated with significant distress and functional impairment. However, as opposed to this adolescent, individuals with transvestic disorder do not identify as or wish to be the opposite gender. When not cross-dressing, they will dress and act in a manner congruent to their assigned gender. Moreover, this patient's desire to wear dresses is a result of gender incongruence rather than a desire for sexual arousal.

**F - Fetishistic disorder** - The DSM-5 defines fetishistic disorder as a paraphilic disorder characterized by the persistent and intense sexual arousal related to, and a fixation on, nonliving objects (e.g., shoes) or nongenital parts of the body (e.g., feet, hair), leading to significant distress or functional impairment. This adolescent presents with distress and functional impairment caused by a mismatch between genetic sex (male) and gender identification (female). There is no evidence of a fetishistic disorder.

