### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Administer the second dose of the hepatitis A vaccine without adjustment for weight** - Children who are behind on the immunization schedule should be caught up by simply continuing with the next doses required in the vaccine series. Accordingly, this boy should receive the second dose of the hepatitis A vaccine at this visit. Vaccines are given without dose adjustment for weight. If more than one dose was missed, the subsequent vaccine doses are administered using the minimum recommended intervals, which may be shorter than the standard interval. Restarting the immunization series (i.e., from the first dose) is never necessary for routine immunizations, regardless of how much time has passed since the last dose.

If the patient is due for additional vaccinations (based on the standard immunization schedule), these vaccinations can be given at the same time as the catch-up doses of the missed immunizations.

Image File: 751-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ed7894da859d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Readminister the first dose of the hepatitis A vaccine without adjustment for weight** - Administering the hepatitis A vaccine is appropriate because this boy has not been fully vaccinated against hepatitis A. However, restarting the immunization series, i.e., readministering the first dose of the hepatitis A vaccine, is never necessary, regardless of how much time has passed since the last dose.

**B - Readminister the first dose of the hepatitis A vaccine with adjustment for weight** - Administering the hepatitis A vaccine is appropriate because this boy has not been fully vaccinated against hepatitis A. However, vaccines are given without dose adjustment for weight, and restarting the immunization series, i.e., readministering the first dose of the hepatitis A vaccine, is never necessary, regardless of how much time has passed since the last dose.

**C - No further vaccinations are required until the age of 4 years** - Administering no further vaccinations until the age of 4 years would be appropriate in a 3-year-old child who has not previously missed vaccinations. However, this boy requires catch-up vaccinations before returning to the regular schedule.

**E - Administer the second dose of the hepatitis A vaccine with adjustment for weight** - Administering the second dose of the hepatitis A vaccine at this visit is appropriate because this boy has not been fully vaccinated against hepatitis A. However, vaccines are given without dose adjustment for weight.

