### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Evaluate for emotional and physical partner violence** - The US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends screening all women of reproductive age for intimate partner violence (IPV). According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the lifetime risk of IPV with an IPV-associated impact (e.g., sexually transmitted infection, psychological distress) in the U.S. is around 1 in every 4 women and 1 in every 10 men. Individual risk factors for IPV include the postpartum period, pregnancy, low socioeconomic status, and a history of abuse. Screening can help to address immediate threats and prevent long-term IPV-associated conditions (e.g., posttraumatic stress disorder). To screen for IPV, the physician can ask a single nonjudgmental question provided with nonstigmatizing framing (e.g., “Some of the patients I see have been hurt or threatened by someone close to them. Is this something that you have experienced?”). Other screening instruments include the HARK questions, HITS screening tool, and STaT questions. Management for women who screen positive for IPV includes immediate and, most importantly, ongoing support.

The USPSTF does not recommend routine screening for abuse in other patient groups (men, women not of reproductive age, vulnerable individuals, elderly) because of a lack of evidence that such interventions provide any benefit to the patients. Other sources do recommend such screening because of an absence of harm and a potential benefit.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Offer referral to a weight loss program** - Referral to a weight loss program or other behavioral interventions is recommended by the US Preventive Services Task Force for patients with a BMI of 30 kg/m2 or higher to prevent obesity-related morbidity and mortality. This patient has a BMI of 27 kg/m2.

**B - Measure serum thyroid-stimulating hormone level** - Serum thyroid-stimulating hormone levels are indicated to evaluate for thyroid disorders such as postpartum thyroiditis. Although postpartum thyroiditis can manifest with fatigue, other features of hyperthyroidism (e.g., weight loss, palpitations, intolerance to heat) or hypothyroidism (e.g., cold intolerance, constipation) would be expected as well. Furthermore, postpartum thyroiditis is typically associated with type 1 diabetes mellitus, not type 2.

**D - Obtain urine culture** - Urine culture is indicated in the diagnostic workup of urinary tract infections (UTIs) in select cases (e.g., uncomplicated lower UTI if urinalysis is negative but suspicion persists, complicated lower UTI, suspected upper UTI). This patient has no signs of UTI (e.g., dysuria, fever) and her vaginal discharge is most consistent with normal lochia. In patients with suspected sexually transmitted infection (e.g., patients with thick yellow, malodorous vaginal discharge), other tests would be the diagnostic tests of choice (e.g., nucleic acid amplification test, vaginal smear).

**E - Counsel on sexually transmitted infections** - Behavioral counseling on sexually transmitted infections (STIs) is recommended by the US Preventive Services Task Force for all sexually active adolescents and for adults at increased risk of STIs (e.g., who do not consistently use condoms and have several sexual partners). This patient is not part of either of these groups.

