### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Vancomycin** - Staphylococcus epidermidis is a gram-positive, catalase-positive, coagulase-negative bacteria that is sensitive to novobiocin. S. epidermidis is a common source of catheter-related bloodstream infections and sepsis. As part of the normal skin flora, it creates biofilms on catheters via intercellular adhesins, which lead to cell aggregation. Because these biofilms are resistant to antibiotic treatment, the catheter must be removed in case of infection. Most coagulase-negative bacteria like S. epidermidis are methicillin-resistant (> 90%). Therefore, vancomycin is the recommended empiric antibiotic agent for catheter-related bloodstream infection.

Image File: 759-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6007016bc351b.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Metronidazole** - Metronidazole is used to treat strict anaerobes and would be ineffective against the aerobic pathogen responsible for this patient's catheter-related bloodstream infection.

**B - Minocycline** - Minocycline is a tetracycline that is shown to be effective against multidrug and methicillin-resistant strains of the bacteria responsible for this patient's catheter-related bloodstream infection. However, minocycline is not considered empiric therapy and therefore not the most appropriate pharmacotherapy in this patient.

**D - Clarithromycin** - Clarithromycin is a macrolide that used to treat streptococcal infections in penicillin-allergic patients and in those with atypical pneumonia. However, the bacteria responsible for this patient's catheter-related bloodstream infection is commonly resistant to macrolides either via increased methylase activity or the development of efflux pumps.

**E - Penicillin G** - Although penicillin G is commonly used against gram-positive bacteria (e.g., S. pyogenes), the bacteria responsible for this patient's catheter-related bloodstream infection is known to produce penicillinases that render penicillin G ineffective.

**F - Polymyxin B** - Polymyxin B is used against multidrug-resistant, gram-negative bacilli such as carbapenem-resistant Pseudomonasaeruginosa, Escherichia coli, Haemophilus influenzae, and Salmonella. Since it is ineffective against gram-positive bacteria, it would not be an appropriate treatment option for this patient.

