### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Ecstasy** - Ecstasy (MDMA) causes sympathomimetic effects and bruxism, which are both seen in this patient. It also causes severe dehydration and, consequently, many users drink excessive amounts of water with no electrolyte repletion, which is the likely cause of this patient's hyponatremia. In some cases, severe hyponatremia can develop and cause seizures, brain herniation, and death. Treatment is largely supportive and primarily addresses hyponatremia and hyperthermia, if present.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Phencyclidine** - Phencyclidine can cause tachycardia and diaphoresis, which are seen in this patient. However, individuals intoxicated with PCP also tend to act violently and have nystagmus, neither of which is present here. Additionally, PCP intoxication would not explain her hyponatremia.

**B - Cocaine** - Cocaine can cause many of the symptoms seen in this patient, including tachycardia, mydriasis, diaphoresis, and bruxism. However, it would not explain her hyponatremia, making it a less likely cause of her symptoms.

**C - Diphenhydramine** - Diphenhydramine is sometimes used as a recreational drug because of its hallucinogenic properties and over-the-counter accessibility. Diphenhydramine overdose manifests with anticholinergic side effects such as flushing, tachycardia, and dry mouth. Although similar symptoms are present in this patient, diphenhydramine overdose also causes reduced or absent sweating rather than diaphoresis.

**D - Acetaminophen** - Acetaminophen toxicity is one of the most common types of drug overdose in the United States and is characterized initially by nonspecific symptoms (nausea, vomiting, lethargy) that progress to liver impairment and, in some cases, hepatic failure. It would not cause tachycardia, diaphoresis, or bruxism, nor would it produce feelings of intense euphoria shortly after ingestion.

**F - Codeine** - Intoxication with opioids such as codeine typically causes a classic triad of respiratory depression, miosis, and altered mental status. It can also cause nausea, which is seen in this patient. However, this patient presents with mydriasis and normal breathing. Additionally, opioid intoxication would not explain her bruxism and hyponatremia.

**G - Methamphetamine** - Methamphetamine is a stimulant drug that can cause many of this patient's symptoms, including tachycardia, mydriasis, diaphoresis, and bruxism. However, it would not explain her hyponatremia, making it a less likely cause of her symptoms.

