### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Tetracycline** - Tetracycline crosses the placenta and accumulates in developing teeth and bones because of its tendency to form complexes with calcium salts. In utero exposure can lead to discoloration of deciduous teeth and inhibition of bone growth, as seen in this patient. For this reason, tetracyclines are contraindicated during pregnancy and in children < 8 years of age.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Trimethoprim** - Trimethoprim is a folic acid antagonist that should be avoided in pregnancy (especially in the first trimester) because of the increased risk of neural tube defects. However, it is not known to cause the dental or skeletal abnormalities seen in this patient.

**B - Sulfamethoxazole** - In utero exposure to sulfamethoxazole can precipitate kernicterus in neonates, which is why this drug should be avoided during pregnancy. However, it is not known to cause the dental or skeletal abnormalities seen in this patient.

**C - Ciprofloxacin** - In utero exposure to fluoroquinolones, such as ciprofloxacin, may be associated with cartilage damage. Fluoroquinolones should be avoided during pregnancy, although their degree of toxicity has not been fully established. They are not, however, known to cause dental discoloration.

**D - Gentamicin** - In utero exposure to gentamicin and other aminoglycosides is associated with ototoxicity in children, which is why this group of drugs should be avoided during pregnancy. However, they are not known to cause the dental or skeletal abnormalities seen in this patient.

**E - Chloramphenicol** - In utero exposure to chloramphenicol is associated with gray baby syndrome, which is why this drug should be avoided during pregnancy. However, it is not known to cause the dental or skeletal abnormalities seen in this patient.

