### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - HIV test** - HIV tests involve detecting antibodies against the virus or the virus itself. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend that individuals diagnosed with an STI (such as a chlamydial infection or gonorrhea), should undergo HIV testing, especially since early infection is often asymptomatic.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - CT scan of the abdomen** - There is no evidence of abdominal disease (e.g., complicated acute appendicitis, abscesses) that would justify a CT scan at this time. This patient was already diagnosed with PID due to a chlamydial infection.

**B - Tzanck smear** - Tzanck smear is used to detect herpes simplex virus (HSV) 1 and 2 infections. Although this patient is at risk for developing a genital herpes, which may cause vaginal discharge, she does not have characteristic genital vesicles or ulcers.

**C - Gonococcal culture** - All patients with PID caused by Chlamydia should also receive empirical treatment (e.g., ceftriaxone) against gonococcal infection. As this patient is already receiving ceftriaxone, no further testing for N. gonorrhoeae is necessary.

**D - Colposcopy** - Colposcopy is used as a screening method for premalignant and malignant cervical lesions, usually after an abnormal pap smear. It is also indicated in cases of postcoital bleeding. As neither of these indications are present in this patient.

**E - Pap smear** - For patients in their third decade of life, a Pap smear is routinely recommended every three years. This patient just had a normal Pap smear 5 months ago.

**G - Exploratory laparoscopy** - Exploratory laparoscopy may be considered in cases in which there is an unclear intra-abdominal condition (e.g., unexplained abdominal pain despite appropriate laboratory and imaging tests). PID has already been established in this patient. If the patient fails to respond to antibiotic treatment, exploratory laparoscopy may be indicated.

