### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Bone fractures** - According to the Beers criteria, physicians should avoid prescribing three or more CNS-active drugs in geriatric patients because combining these drugs can cause sedation, cognitive impairment, and delirium, which can increase the risk of falls and resulting fractures. CNS-active drugs include antidepressants (tricyclic antidepressants, SSRIs, SNRIs), antipsychotics, antiepileptics, benzodiazepines, nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics, and opioids. This patient is receiving three CNS-active drugs: lorazepam (a benzodiazepine) for insomnia, topiramate (an antiepileptic) for migraine, and fluoxetine (an SSRI) for her panic disorder. Elderly patients are especially sensitive to the effects of benzodiazepines. This patient's orthostatic lightheadedness is also a risk factor for falls. In addition, there is a higher risk of fractures in this patient, who has risk factors for decreased bone mineral density (e.g., postmenopausal woman, glitazone use).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Clostridium difficile infection** - The main risk factors for Clostridium difficile infection are the use of certain antibiotics (e.g., clindamycin, fluoroquinolones, cephalosporins) and proton pump inhibitors (PPIs). This patient is not currently taking any medications that would significantly increase her risk of C. difficile infection.

**B - Constipation** - This patient is taking ipratropium, an antimuscarinic drug, which is associated with an increased risk of constipation. However, the risk of this inhaled antimuscarinic agent is relatively low if the patient does not concomitantly use other drugs that have antimuscarinic activity (e.g., muscarinic receptor antagonists, tricyclic antidepressants, first-generation antihistamines, antipsychotics) or cause constipation (e.g., opioids, calcium channel blockers, antacids containing aluminum hydroxide). A different complication is much more likely with this patient's polydrug regimen.

**C - Decrease in kidney function** - This patient is taking lisinopril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), which can cause a transient decline in renal function (increase in serum creatinine) when therapy is initiated, but the long-term use of an ACEI in a patient with diabetes mellitus and hypertension, which is seen here, is renoprotective. Significant ACEI-induced decline in renal function is a possibility only if the patient has a condition in which the glomerular filtration rate is critically dependent on angiotensin II (e.g., hypovolemia, bilateral renal artery stenosis) or concomitantly uses a drug that can cause a decrease in renal function (e.g., NSAIDs). This patient does not have evidence of any such condition and none of her other medications cause a decrease in renal function.

**D - Gastrointestinal hemorrhage** - The main risk factors for gastrointestinal bleeding are the use of NSAIDs (which decrease mucosal-protective PGE2), systemic corticosteroids (which impair mucosal tissue repair), and anticoagulants. This patient is not currently taking any medications that would significantly increase her risk of gastrointestinal bleeding.

