### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Oseltamivir** - Oseltamivir is a neuraminidase inhibitor used in the treatment of severe influenza. It has also been shown to reduce complications in patients with risk factors such as asthma, young children, or elderly individuals (≥ 65 years of age). It can shorten the duration of disease if therapy is initiated within the first 24–48 hours of symptom onset. In adults with mild illness and no risk factors, supportive treatment is sufficient and oseltamivir is not indicated.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Supportive therapy only** - In adults with mild symptoms and no risk factors for complications, influenza should be treated with supportive therapy only. Treatment includes rehydration, analgesia, antipyretics, and antitussives. However, patients with risk factors or severe symptoms should be treated with antivirals if they present within 48 hours of symptom onset. Since the patient has a history of asthma, which predisposes her to complications such as pneumonia, additional measures are indicated.

**B - Amantadine** - Amantadine is a drug used in the treatment of Parkinson disease. Its mechanism of action is not well understood, but it most likely has N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist properties. It was also formerly used in the treatment of influenza A infections. However, as the virus has developed high rates of resistance over the last years, the use of amantadine is no longer recommended.

**C - Inactivated influenza vaccine** - The inactivated influenza vaccine is recommended by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) for all individuals > 6 months of age and should be administered annually. However, it is not effective in acute infection.

**E - Live attenuated influenza vaccine** - The live attenuated influenza vaccine is recommended by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) for all nonpregnant individuals 2–49 years of age and should be administered annually. However, it is not effective in acute infection. (The recommendations regarding influenza vaccines change yearly; updated information from the CDC can be found at www.cdc.gov.)

