### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Administer intramuscular epinephrine** - Intramuscular epinephrine is vital in the treatment of anaphylaxis, largely due to its reversal of shock symptoms, which are present in this patient. In most real-world cases, one provider would administer IM epinephrine while another provider assesses and manages the patient's airway.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer 2 L normal saline** - Normal saline is part of the treatment for anaphylactic shock and would be indicated in this patient. However, this would only address this patient's hypotension and would not treat the underlying cause of this patient's symptoms. Another treatment is required before IV fluids would be indicated.

**B - Administer nebulized albuterol** - Albuterol can be administered for persistent bronchospasm after initial treatment of anaphylaxis. However, nebulized albuterol would not affect extrapulmonary (upper airway edema and shock) symptoms, which require immediate treatment. This patient also has a history of asthma, which can cause acute respiratory distress and wheezing. If this were an asthma attack, nebulized albuterol would be the first-line medical treatment (if endotracheal intubation was not required due to respiratory failure). However, asthma does not explain the oropharyngeal or upper airway changes in this patient (lip/tongue swelling, stridor).

**C - Administer intravenous diphenhydramine** - Diphenhydramine (and other antihistamines) can be given as part of anaphylaxis treatment because it can relieve cutaneous symptoms (e.g., itching and hives), but it does not treat life-threatening (e.g. respiratory and cardiovascular) symptoms. This patient has respiratory difficulty and hypotension, both of which require immediate treatment to prevent further deterioration.

**D - Administer vancomycin and piperacillin-tazobactam** - Vancomycin and piperacillin-tazobactam are antibiotics that together cover a very broad spectrum of bacteria. This patient is at risk for infection due to his fracture (especially if it is an open fracture), and bacterial infection can lead to septic shock, which would present with hypotension and tachycardia, as seen in this patient. However, septic shock would not cause urticaria or wheezing. Additionally, this patient's symptoms were far too rapid in onset to be caused by infection.

**E - Administer intravenous methylprednisolone** - Glucocorticoids, like methylprednisolone, can be given as part of anaphylaxis treatment to decrease the risk of biphasic or protracted anaphylactic reactions. Because this patient is acutely hypotensive and experiencing respiratory difficulty, his condition requires immediate correction. Glucocorticoids require hours to take effect and would not be the most appropriate first treatment in this case.

**G - Endotracheal intubation** - Patients in severe respiratory distress with signs of impending airway collapse (stridor, oropharyngeal edema, and hoarse voice) and severe hypoxia should be intubated to secure the airway before it closes completely and a surgical airway is required. However, given this patient's presentation, another step is indicated at this time.

