### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - A** - Increased serum IgE levels with eosinophilia and otherwise normal immunoglobulin levels is suggestive of hyper-IgE syndrome (Job syndrome). Hyper-IgE syndrome is caused by a mutation in the STAT3 gene, which leads to Th17 cell deficiency and decreased interferon-γ production by helper T cells. The lack of interferon-γ impairs neutrophil chemotaxis, causing patients to present with cold abscesses and recurrent sinopulmonary infections (e.g., pneumonia), as seen in this child. Affected individuals also develop eczema (resembling atopic dermatitis) within the first few weeks of life. Hyper-IgE syndrome leads to the development of coarse facial features (due to skin and soft tissue thickening), primary teeth retention, and orthopedic problems (e.g., bone demineralization, pathological fractures, scoliosis, hyperextensible joints) as patients grows older.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - B** - Increased IgA and IgE with normal or decreased IgG and IgM serum levels is suggestive of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS), which typically manifests in males and can cause recurrent sinopulmonary infections, eczema, and eosinophilia. However, microthrombocytopenia, a characteristic feature of WAS, is not present in this child. WAS is not associated with the cold abscesses or facial dysmorphism seen in this patient. Moreover, the underlying etiology of WAS is an X-linked recessive mutation in the WAS gene, not STAT3. This defect impairs actin reorganization within T cells and platelets; on flow cytometry, the counts of all T cell subsets would be normal or decreased (due to accelerated T cell death), unlike the isolated Th17 cell deficiency seen here.

**C - C** - Isolated low serum IgA levels are suggestive of selective IgA deficiency (sIgAD), the most common primary immunodeficiency. Most individuals with sIgAD are asymptomatic or have a protracted yet mild disease course. Some patients with sIgAD may have eczema (due to atopy) and recurrent sinopulmonary and/or gastrointestinal tract infections, as seen here. However, cold abscesses, facial dysmorphism, and eosinophilia are not associated with sIgAD. Moreover, flow cytometry is usually normal in sIgAD.

**D - D** - Increased IgM levels with a deficiency of other immunoglobulin classes is seen in hyper IgM syndrome (HIGM), which typically manifests in male infants or toddlers with recurrent pyogenic sinopulmonary infections. However, the most common underlying etiology of HIGM is an X-linked recessive defect in the gene coding for the CD40 ligand; this defect impairs class switching in B cells but does not decrease immune cell counts on flow cytometry. Moreover, cold abscesses, facial dysmorphism, and eosinophilia are not consistent with HGIM.

**E - E** - Increased monoclonal IgG levels with a deficiency of other immunoglobulin classes can be seen in multiple myeloma (MM), which can cause recurrent infections. However, MM usually manifests in adulthood rather than in infancy, and it would not cause cold abscesses, facial dysmorphism, or eosinophilia. Instead, affected individuals develop hypercalcemia, renal dysfunction, anemia, and/or lytic bone lesions, none of which are seen here. In addition, flow cytometry in the case of advanced MM (i.e., bone marrow infiltration) would show a decrease in all types of leukocytes, not just in Th17 cells.

**F - F** - Globally low immunoglobulin levels are seen in common variable immunodeficiency (CVID), X-linked agammaglobulinemia (XLA), and severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID), each of which can result in recurrent sinopulmonary infections. However, CVID manifests after the age of 2 years (typically at 20–35 years of age), whereas this child has had recurrent infections since the age of 1 year. Both XLA and SCID manifest during late infancy and primarily affect boys, but they are caused by different mutations (BTK gene mutation in XLA; typically IL2RG gene mutation in SCID). Moreover, flow cytometry would show a deficiency of B cells (rather than Th17 cells) in CVID and XLA, and a deficiency of B cells and all classes of T cells (not just Th17 cells) in SCID. None of these conditions are associated with cold abscesses, facial dysmorphism, or eosinophilia.

