### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Antagonist at bradykinin receptor** - The autosomal dominant defect in patients with hereditary angioedema causes a deficiency of C1 inhibitor, which physiologically suppresses steps in the complement pathways and inactivates kallikrein. Because kallikrein normally converts kininogen to bradykinin, increased levels of kallikrein lead to a buildup of bradykinin, and eventual angioedema. First-line therapies are focused either on antagonizing the bradykinin-B2-receptor (icatibant), preventing further generation of bradykinin with kallikrein inhibitor therapy (ecallantide), or replacing the defective enzyme with intravenous injection of purified C1-INH.

Trauma, mental or physical stress, and dental work are common triggers for these acute attacks.

Image File: 773-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ef9fb3e2f1a2.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Antagonist at histamine receptor** - Antihistamines are used to treat patients presenting with mast cell-mediated angioedema (without anaphylaxis). Although this patient's significant orofacial swelling could be due to mast cell-mediated angioedema, it is more often associated with significant pruritus and urticaria, which are noticeably absent here. Antihistamines are primarily used for treating pruritus and urticaria and would not benefit this patient.

**B - Agonist at androgen receptor** - Attenuated androgens (e.g., danazol) are effective therapies for long-term prophylaxis in patients with hereditary angioedema. However, they are not useful in treating acute attacks, as seen here.

**D - Inhibitor of angiotensin-converting enzyme** - The use of ACE inhibitors is absolutely contraindicated in a patient with hereditary angioedema. Inhibition prevents ACE from degrading the already elevated bradykinin and also leads to lower levels of angiotensin II, which normally acts to inhibit bradykinin synthesis. ACE inhibitors are the most common cause of acquired angioedema.

**E - Agonist at glucocorticoid receptor** - Glucocorticoids are an appropriate treatment for patients presenting with mast cell-mediated angioedema (without anaphylaxis). While this could explain this patient's significant orofacial swelling, the lack of significant pruritus or an urticarial rash make it highly unlikely. Glucocorticoids are ineffective in the context of acute hereditary angioedema.

**F - Agonist at alpha and beta-adrenergic receptors** - Epinephrine, a dual α and β adrenergic agonist, is the first-line treatment for anaphylaxis associated with allergic or mast cell-mediated angioedema. Abdominal pain can also occur in some cases of anaphylaxis, most commonly with a known food allergen. However, anaphylaxis usually has an acute onset (i.e., within 30 minutes to 2 hours of exposure to an antigen), is rapidly progressive, and would present with additional system involvement (hypotension, pruritus, and urticaria). Epinephrine does not improve airway-associated symptoms in acute hereditary angioedema.

