### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Surgically induced tissue trauma** - Surgically induced tissue trauma is the most probable cause of this patient's postoperative fever. Tissue trauma triggers the release of inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-1, IL-6, TNF α, IFN-γ), which can lead to fever within several hours after surgery, as seen here. While fever due to an infectious origin can also lead to postoperative fever, it rarely occurs before the third day after surgery. Other noninfectious causes of immediate postoperative fever, such as febrile nonhemolytic transfusion reaction, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, and malignant hyperthermia, are unlikely here because the patient is hemodynamically stable and has isolated fever and chills.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pulmonary embolism** - Pulmonary embolism (PE) can cause postoperative fever. However, PE usually occurs several days to weeks after surgery, not within hours of surgery. Additionally, it is also typically associated with shortness of breath, pleuritic chest pain, cough, tachycardia, and tachypnea, none of which are seen here.

**B - Surgical site infection** - Surgical site infection is a common cause of postoperative fever that may occur as early as within 24 hours after surgery but usually manifests after one week postoperatively. Wound infection would not cause fever within five hours of surgery. Additionally, this patient's wound shows only mild erythema, and no other signs of infection such as discharge or severe tenderness.

**C - Malignant hyperthermia** - Malignant hyperthermia (MH) is a rare but important cause of acute perioperative fever that typically manifests with muscle rigidity, tachycardia, and tachypnea within minutes of induction of anesthesia (e.g., sevoflurane). While this patient has received sevoflurane, his fever is isolated and started several hours after surgery, making MH unlikely.

**D - Acute hemolytic transfusion reaction** - Acute hemolytic transfusion reaction (AHTR) can manifest with fever and chills, which typically occur within 24 hours of receiving a blood transfusion, similar to what is seen in this patient. However, patients with AHTR typically also present with dark urine (due to hemoglobinuria) and hypotension, neither of which are seen in this patient.

**F - Urinary tract infection** - Urinary tract infection (UTI) is a common cause of postoperative fever, especially in patients with indwelling urinary catheters, which this patient has. However, UTI typically manifests on postoperative days 2–4 and would not arise within hours of catheter insertion.

