### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Fexofenadine** - This patient presents with symptoms of a food allergy. While a first-generation antihistamine (e.g., diphenhydramine) would usually be recommended, these may have anticholinergic side effects, such as inducing mydriasis that can trigger an acute attack in patients with a history of narrow-angle glaucoma. Since first-generation antihistamines are therefore contraindicated in this patient, the most appropriate pharmacotherapy is a second-generation antihistamine like fexofenadine, which is similarly effective but has fewer sedative and anticholinergic side effects.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Diphenhydramine** - Diphenhydramine is a first-generation antihistamine commonly used to treat allergies (e.g., hay fever), pruritus, and nausea. While it would also be effective in treating this patient's food allergy, first-generation antihistamines have anticholinergic side effects that can cause mydriasis and trigger an acute attack in patients with a history of narrow-angle glaucoma, making them contraindicated in this patient.

**B - Amoxicillin** - In an individual with rhinitis, amoxicillin can be indicated if underlying infectious rhinosinusitis is suspected. This patient, however, presents with symptoms indicating an allergic reaction and shows no further symptoms of a bacterial sinus infection (e.g., fever, purulent rhinitis, tenderness of paranasal sinuses).

**C - Chlorpheniramine** - Chlorpheniramine is a first-generation antihistamine commonly used to treat allergies (e.g., hay fever), as well as sinus congestion and rhinitis caused by upper respiratory infections. Although it would also be effective in treating this patient's food allergy, first-generation antihistamines have anticholinergic side effects that can cause mydriasis and trigger an acute attack in patients with a history of narrow-angle glaucoma, making them contraindicated in this patient.

**E - Vitamin K** - Vitamin K can be indicated for pruritus in individuals with a history of liver disease, such as cholestasis. This patient has no history or current symptoms of liver disease (e.g., jaundice, hepatomegaly, RUQ pain) and vitamin K is not effective in managing allergic reactions.

**F - Calamine lotion** - Calamine lotion is used for the topical treatment of mild to moderate pruritus in individuals with skin conditions such as varicella, sunburn, and xerosis. While it may alleviate some of this patient's pruritus, it is not effective in treating the underlying allergic reaction.

