### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Discontinue antibiotic** - This patient presents with symptoms of a serum sickness-like reaction (SSLR), a condition often caused by medications such as antibiotics and anticonvulsants. It can also occur after streptococcal infections, viral infections, and certain vaccines. It is believed that drug metabolites serve as haptens that bind covalently to serum proteins (e.g., albumin), which can activate the immune system. If a particular medication can be identified as the causative agent, it should be discontinued or replaced.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Switch medication to doxycycline** - Switching medication to doxycycline would be appropriate if this patient had Lyme disease, which may be suspected given his recent camping experience. However, unlike this patient, the skin rash in patients with early Lyme presents as a localized (single) circular, slowly expanding, erythematous ring around the bite site with central clearing.

Image File: 789-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_584eaf359340b.jpg

**C - Administer prednisone** - While corticosteroids, such as prednisone, may help reduce the inflammatory response of SSLR, another step is more important to manage the underlying cause at this time. Corticosteroids should be considered as first-line treatment in patients with severe Still disease, nephrotic syndrome, or anaphylaxis, among others. Although this patient has features of each of these conditions (Still disease: arthritis, skin rash; nephrotic syndrome: proteinuria, periorbital edema; anaphylaxis: skin rash; periorbital edema), the constellation of skin rash, polyarticular arthritis, fever, periorbital edema, and generalized lymphadenopathy, cannot be explained by any of these diseases alone.

**D - Perform allergy testing** - Allergy testing is indicated in individuals with a history of allergic reactions, both chronic (e.g., food allergies, hay fever) and acute (e.g., drug reactions), to detect the causative allergen. In individuals with a SSLR, allergy testing can be considered but is usually not indicated, as a reliable diagnosis can be established clinically.

**E - Perform Monospot test** - A monospot test is not indicated for SSLR but is used to confirm the diagnosis in suspected EBV infections (infectious mononucleosis). While the administration of an aminopenicillin (e.g., amoxicillin or ampicillin) in infectious mononucleosis can lead to the development of a generalized rash, it is typically maculopapular and nonpruritic. Furthermore, this etiology is unlikely in a patient without additional characteristic symptoms of an EBV infection (e.g., tonsillitis with typical white deposits, splenomegaly, hepatomegaly).

Image File: 789-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_57c039e8e0188.jpg

**F - Administer ibuprofen** - Although ibuprofen should be considered to address the patient's fever and joint pain, another step is more important to manage the underlying cause of SSLR at this time. NSAIDs like ibuprofen are first-line therapy for Still disease, which also presents with joint pain and a skin rash. However, the condition would also cause swollen joints, early morning stiffness, and limited joint movement, none of which is present in this patient.

**G - Administer diphenhydramine** - Although diphenhydramine would relieve the pruritus and skin rash of SSLR, another step is more important to manage the underlying cause at this time. Diphenhydramine would be indicated for suspected anaphylaxis, which would cause an acute, diffuse, pruritic rash and periorbital edema. However, a reaction would not last 24 hours and would likely also involve other common features such as sneezing, chest tightness, dyspnea, wheezing, and possible cardiovascular compromise (circulatory failure, distributive shock).

