### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Acute graft-versus-host disease** - Acute graft-versus-host disease typically occurs after transplantations of lymphocyte-rich organs (e.g., allogenous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation) and develops within the first 100 days following the procedure. Donor T lymphocytes trigger a type IV hypersensitivity reaction in the host organs, leading to severe organ damage. Skin, liver, and intestine are commonly affected, so patients present with a maculopapular rash, diarrhea, abdominal pain, jaundice, and cholestatic liver dysfunction. Hematopoietic involvement may also be present (anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukocytopenia).

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Cytomegalovirus infection** - Cytomegalovirus infection can manifest with symptoms of colitis (e.g., diarrhea, cramping abdominal pain), elevated liver enzymes, and pancytopenia in immunosuppressed individuals following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. However, CMV is also associated with fever, which this patient does not have. Moreover, CMV would not explain the maculopapular rash seen in this patient.

**B - Drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome** - Drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome (DRESS syndrome) tyoically manifests 1–8 weeks after the initiation of a high-risk medication such as trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, and can manifest with a maculopapular rash, hepatic dysfunction, and thrombocytopenia. However, patients with DRESS syndrome typically have high-grade fever and diffuse lymphadenopathy. Moreover, gastrointestinal involvement is uncommon in DRESS syndrome.

**C - Hepatic venoocclusive disease** - Hepatic venoocclusive disease can develop following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation due to chemotherapy exposure and often manifests with jaundice, abdominal pain, thrombocytopenia, and elevated liver enzymes. However, this disease is also commonly associated with evidence of fluid overload (e.g., unexplained weight gain, dyspnea, ascites) and hepatomegaly, which are not seen here. Moreover, hepatic venoocclusive disease is not associated with skin and intestinal involvement.

**E - Posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease** - Posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease (PTLD) typically occurs due to Epstein-Barr virus reactivation in patients with severe immunosuppression following solid organ transplantation or allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. PTLD can manifest with abdominal pain and liver dysfunction. However, PTLD is also commonly associated with mononucleosis-like symptoms such as fever, weight loss, fatigue, and lymphadenopathy, none of which is seen here.

**F - Engraftment syndrome** - Engraftment syndrome occurs during neutrophil recovery following a hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) and can manifest with skin rash, hepatic dysfunction, jaundice, and diarrhea. However, it occurs within 3–4 days of engraftment, which happens within 2–4 weeks following HSCT. Engraftment has already occurred in this patient, as evidenced by his high leukocyte count. In addition, other typical clinical findings of engraftment syndrome (e.g., fever, dyspnea, pulmonary edema, encephalopathy) are not seen here.

