### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Hepatitis A virus vaccine** - Men who have sex with men are at high risk of contracting hepatitis A virus. Since this man did not receive all routine vaccinations as a child, he should be given the hepatitis A virus vaccine now. Hepatitis A vaccination consists of 2 doses of HepA vaccine given 6–18 months apart. The vaccine is also indicated for other populations at high risk of hepatitis A infection, including travelers to countries where the virus is endemic, users of recreational drugs, and individuals with chronic liver disease.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Varicella vaccine** - Vaccination against varicella requires administration of a live attenuated vaccine. Live vaccines should not be administered to immunocompromised individuals such as this patient, who has a CD4+ T lymphocyte cell count < 200. Once his CD4+ T lymphocyte cell count is > 200, he should receive this vaccine to protect him against chickenpox and shingles.

**B - Tetanus toxoid, diphtheria toxoid, and acellular pertussis vaccine** - The tetanus toxoid, diphtheria toxoid, and acellular pertussis (Tdap) vaccination is indicated in adults who did not receive the usual schedule of vaccinations during childhood, as is the case in this patient. A booster vaccination with tetanus and diphtheria toxoids (Td) is required every 10 years in order to maintain full immunity. However, this patient received his Tdap vaccine only 6 years ago, which means that he will not require a booster dose of the Td vaccine for another 4 years.

**C - Influenza vaccine** - Annual Influenza vaccination with the inactivated or recombinant vaccine is highly recommended, especially in immunocompromised individuals such as this patient. However, he is currently being seen in the month of June, which is still too early for the influenza vaccine. For maximum protection from the influenza virus, he should receive the vaccine at a follow-up visit in the early fall. Vaccination with the live-attenuated vaccine is not recommended in individuals with HIV infection regardless of CD4+ T lymphocyte count.

**D - Measles, mumps, rubella vaccine** - Vaccination against measles, mumps, and rubella requires administration of a live attenuated vaccine. Live attenuated vaccines should not be administered to immunocompromised individuals such as this patient, who has a CD4+ T lymphocyte cell count of < 200. Once his CD4+ T lymphocyte cell count is > 200, he should receive this vaccine.

**E - Human papilloma virus vaccine** - This patient is at high risk for HPV infection, which predisposes him to penile and anal cancer. However, current guidelines recommend HPV vaccination in individuals ≤ 26 years of age. Although the FDA has approved the HPV vaccine for individuals up to age 45, it is not routinely recommended for those > 26 years old by the CDC.

**F - Pneumococcal polysaccharide 23 vaccine** - Pneumococcal polysaccharide 23 vaccine (PPSV23) is recommended for individuals with HIV infection. However, the PPSV23 vaccine should not be administered before the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13). Because this patient's vaccination history is unknown, he should receive the PCV13 now and return in 8 weeks to receive the PPSV23.

