### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Goodpasture syndrome** - Goodpasture syndrome is caused by autoantibodies against the noncollagenous domain of the α-3 subunit in type IV collagen. Type IV collagen is a component of basement membranes, and α-3 subunits are present only in certain tissues (e.g., lungs, kidneys). Therefore, the autoantibodies in Goodpasture syndrome specifically damage the glomerular basement membrane (anti-GBM antibodies) and the alveolar basement membrane, causing nephritic syndrome and alveolar hemorrhage without resulting in features of systemic vasculitis (e.g., fever, malaise, myalgia, arthralgia, palpable purpura).

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis** - Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis can cause pulmonary-renal syndrome and patchy infiltrates bilaterally. However, the mean age of symptom onset is usually 50 years. Also, patients would have other features such as fever, malaise, weight loss, musculoskeletal pain, a history of bronchial asthma, palpable purpura, and/or clinical features suggestive of multifocal mononeuropathy. Immunohistochemical staining of the renal biopsy specimen would reveal a paucity of immunoglobulins.

**C - IgA nephropathy** - IgA nephropathy can cause hematuria and it is more common in males 20–40 years of age. Since IgA nephropathy typically develops within 2–3 days of the onset of an infection (e.g., upper respiratory infection), clinical features such as cough, and a blood-tinged sputum may also be present. However, the hematuria associated with IgA nephropathy usually resolves after 3–4 days. Also, this patient lacks systemic symptoms (e.g., fever, malaise) to suggest an underlying infectious etiology. Immunohistochemical staining of the renal biopsy specimen would reveal granular deposits of immunoglobulins within the mesangium, instead of linear deposits of IgG along the glomerular basement membrane.

**D - Granulomatosis with polyangiitis** - Granulomatosis with polyangiitis can cause pulmonary-renal syndrome and patchy infiltrates bilaterally. However, patients would have other features such as fever, malaise, weight loss, arthralgia, chronic rhinosinusitis, nasal septal perforation/deformity (due to destruction of the nasal septum), and/or cutaneous lesions (e.g., palpable purpura, skin ulcers). Immunohistochemical staining of the renal biopsy specimen would reveal a paucity of immunoglobulins.

**E - Reactivated tuberculosis** - Reactivation of tuberculosis can cause hemoptysis, a patchy infiltrate on chest x-ray, and rarely proteinuria (due to genitourinary tuberculosis). However, the increase in serum creatinine and the presence of RBC casts suggests a glomerular pathology. Moreover, reactivation of tuberculosis typically occurs in patients with an immunocompromised state (e.g., HIV infection, therapy with anti-TNF-α drugs), and other symptoms such as weight loss, malaise, and/or night sweats would be present.

**F - Microscopic polyangiitis** - Microscopic polyangiitis can cause pulmonary-renal syndrome and patchy infiltrates bilaterally. However, the mean age of symptom onset is usually 60 years, and patients would have other features such as fever, malaise, weight loss, musculoskeletal pain, and/or palpable purpura. Immunohistochemical staining of the renal biopsy specimen would reveal a paucity of immunoglobulins.

**G - Lupus nephritis** - Lupus nephritis is seen in patients with SLE, which can also cause hemoptysis (due to diffuse alveolar hemorrhage). This patient's family history of SLE puts him at increased risk of developing the disease. However, SLE is more common in women, and other features such as a history of fever, malaise, weight loss, myalgia, arthralgia, photosensitivity, and/or a skin rash would usually be present. Also, immunohistochemical staining of the renal biopsy specimen would reveal a granular deposit of immunoglobulins (IgG, IgM, IgA) and complement (e.g., C1q) unlike the linear deposit seen here.

