### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Avoid all types of fish** - Complete avoidance of the food allergen and similar foods is the preferred management for patients with food allergies. Although this patient's skin prick test is positive only for salmon and cod, he should also avoid all other types of finned fish because of a high risk of cross-reactivity. In addition, he should be counseled on cross-contacts (e.g., in restaurants), food allergens in unexpected sources or nonfood items, food labeling, and aerosolized allergens (e.g., in steam from cooking). Furthermore, all patients with IgE-mediated food allergies should be provided with an anaphylaxis emergency action plan and at least one epinephrine autoinjector to treat accidental exposure. In this patient who would like to continue eating seafood, a follow-up evaluation for shellfish tolerance may be considered because the most common allergens in finned fish typically differ from the allergens in shellfish and his skin prick test shows no reactivity to shrimp.

A new treatment approach for food allergies, oral immunotherapy (e.g., for peanut allergy), is currently being researched and consists of the ingestion of increasing doses of the allergen in a controlled setting in order to desensitize the immune system. This approach may allow patients with food allergies to continue eating allergenic foods in the future.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Take antihistamines one hour before eating fish** - Oral antihistamines can be used to treat mild allergic reactions such as urticaria, oral itch, or mild abdominal pain. This patient, however, had an anaphylactic reaction, for which treatment with antihistamines is insufficient. Furthermore, there is no recommendation that supports pretreatment with antihistamines in patients with IgE-mediated food allergies (e.g., fish allergy).

**C - Only consume long-boiled fish** - Some food allergens (especially milk and egg) are tolerated better when they are cooked or heated for a long time. However, there is only limited evidence that seafood boiled for a long time is less allergenic than raw seafood. This approach puts the patient at risk of another life-threatening allergic reaction.

**D - Inject intramuscular norepinephrine after eating fish** - Although intramuscular epinephrine is used in the management of severe IgE-mediated hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., anaphylaxis due to fish allergy), this medication is reserved for emergency situations such as accidental exposure because it carries a high risk of side effects.

**E - Reduce the daily dietary amount of fish** - Reducing the amount of fish eaten daily is not an appropriate recommendation in a patient with a history of anaphylaxis caused by fish. This approach is insufficient because allergic reactions are typically triggered by even very small amounts of allergen.

