### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Pneumocystis jirovecii** - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) is used as prophylaxis for both Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP) in patients with HIV and a CD4+ count < 200/mm3 and toxoplasmosis in patients with HIV and a CD4+ count < 100/mm3. In patients who are allergic to TMP-SMX, oral dapsone or atovaquone can be administered. Aerosolized pentamidine may be used if none of the other prophylactic agents are available.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Candida albicans** - HIV-positive patients with a CD4+ count < 100/mm3 are more susceptible to systemic infection with Candida albicans, which can involve the oral cavity and/or esophagus, or lead to disseminated disease. However, treatment against Candida infections is not recommended unless active infection is evident. Treating the underlying HIV infection and improving immune system function with antiretroviral therapy are the most effective strategies for prevention.

**C - Cryptosporidium parvum** - Cryptosporidium parvum can cause chronic and life-threatening diarrhea in patients with HIV infection, particularly in patients with a CD4+ count < 200/mm3. While the use of clarithromycin or rifabutin may be helpful in some cases, antibiotic prophylaxis is not routinely recommended. Treating the underlying HIV infection and improving immune system function with antiretroviral therapy are the most effective prevention strategies. Preventative measures that help reduce further transmission such as maintaining adequate hand hygiene and avoiding possible contaminated water sources may also assist in reducing exposure to C. parvum.

**D - Cytomegalovirus** - Cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation can cause severe gastrointestinal tract inflammation (e.g., esophagitis, colitis) or retinitis in patients with HIV infection, particularly in patients with a CD4+ count < 50/mm3. This patient's CD4+ count is 90/mm3 and he does not have features of CMV esophagitis, colitis, or retinitis. Moreover, treating the underlying HIV infection and improving immune system function with antiretroviral therapy are the most effective strategies for the prevention of CMV reactivation.

**E - Mycobacterium avium complex** - Infection with Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) can cause abdominal pain, diarrhea, lymphadenitis, and tuberculosis-like disease which manifests with night sweats, fever, and weight loss, particularly in HIV-positive patients with a CD4+ count < 50/mm3. This patient's CD4+ count is 90/mm3 and he does not present with features of MAC infection. Prophylaxis with macrolide antibiotics for patients with a CD4+ count < 50/mm3 is still used in patients who are not on antiretroviral therapy (ART). However, prophylaxis is no longer recommended to patients who are on ART.

**F - Cryptococcus neoformans** - Infection with Cryptococcus neoformans can cause meningitis or pneumonia in HIV-positive patients, particularly in those with a CD4+ count < 100/mm3. Though infection with Cryptococcus neoformans requires aggressive monitoring and treatment to prevent long-term complications and mortality, there is no evidence to support prophylaxis. Treating the underlying HIV infection and improving immune system function with antiretroviral therapy are the most effective strategies for prevention.

