### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - No further workup is indicated at this time** - After a needlestick injury (NSI), the exposed individual should undergo a baseline antibody-based HIV test (preferably the HIV-1/2 combination immunoassay) and, if the source patient's HIV status is positive or unknown, follow-up testing at 6 weeks and 4 months (if using the HIV-1/2 combination immunoassay) or at 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months (if using a previous generation antibody-based test). Extended follow-up testing for HIV (e.g., at 1 year after the NSI) is only required if the exposed individual becomes HCV-positive or has impaired humoral immunity because delayed HIV seroconversion can occur in these patients. The decision to initiate PEP against HIV after NSI is made using a shared-decision making strategy based on a risk-benefit analysis (e.g., source patient status, drug toxicities).

Following NSI, provided the source patient has a negative HCV status, no further testing for HCV is required in the exposed individual. If the source patient's HCV is positive or unknown, the exposed individual should undergo a baseline anti-HCV antibody test followed by an HCV nucleic acid amplification test (NAAT) at 3–6 weeks and an anti-HCV antibody test at 4–6 months. Currently, no postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) against HCV is recommended, but exposed individuals who become HCV-positive should receive direct-acting antiviral therapy. If the source patient has a negative HBV status or if the exposed individual had adequate anti-HBs titers, no further testing or PEP against HBV is required. If the exposed individual did not have adequate anti-HBs titers and the HBV status of the source patient is positive or unknown, the exposed individual should receive PEP against HBV with active and passive immunization and undergo follow-up testing with anti-HBc and HBsAg at 6 months.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Repeat an anti-HCV antibody titer test** - After a needlestick injury (NSI) involving a source patient with an unknown HCV status, the exposed individual should undergo a baseline anti-HCV antibody test followed by an HCV nucleic acid amplification test (NAAT) at 3–6 weeks and an anti-HCV antibody test at 4–6 months. This patient had a negative anti-HCV antibody test 6 months after the NSI and requires no further testing for HCV infection.

**B - Perform an HCV nucleic acid amplification test** - After a needlestick injury (NSI) involving a source patient with an unknown HCV status, the exposed individual should undergo a baseline anti-HCV antibody test followed by an HCV nucleic acid amplification test (NAAT) at 3–6 weeks and an anti-HCV antibody test at 4–6 months. HCV NAAT would also be performed for any patient with a positive anti-HCV antibody test in order to confirm HCV infection. This patient had a negative anti-HCV antibody test 6 months after the NSI and requires no further testing for HCV infection.

**D - Perform an HIV nucleic acid amplification test** - A nucleic acid amplification test (NAAT) for HIV is used as a tiebreaker test in a serial testing strategy (i.e., after a positive HIV-1/2 combination immunoassay but a negative HIV antigen-antibody differentiation assay) in order to diagnose HIV infection. A quantitative NAAT (e.g., real-time polymerase chain reaction), which can measure viral loads, is used to measure response to treatment in patients with confirmed HIV infection. NAAT is not used as the initial test to diagnose HIV infection or for the follow-up of patients without a confirmed HIV infection because this test has a higher rate of false positives than antibody-based tests and undetectable HIV RNA does not rule out HIV transmission.

**E - Repeat an HIV combination immunoassay test** - After a needlestick injury (NSI), follow-up testing with an HIV-1/2 combination immunoassay beyond 4 months is only required if the exposed individual becomes HCV-positive or has a history suggestive of impaired humoral immunity because delayed HIV seroconversion occurs in these patients. This patient, who is otherwise healthy, had a negative HIV-1/2 combination immunoassay 4 months after the NSI and a negative anti-HCV antibody test 6 months after the NSI; he, therefore, requires no further testing for HIV infection.

