### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Cefepime** - Even if a source of infection cannot be determined, patients with neutropenic fever should be given broad-spectrum antibiotics without delay to avoid sepsis and life-threatening complications. Neutropenic fever, as seen here, is life-threatening because the neutrophil-mediated inflammatory response to bacterial infection is impaired. After blood and urine samples are taken, immediate empiric treatment with an anti-pseudomonal ß-lactam drug (cefepime, meropenem, or piperacillin-tazobactam) that covers both gram-negative and gram-positive bacteria should be initiated. If the fever persists 72 hours after initiation of antibiotic treatment, the patient should be reassessed for fungal or viral infection.

Image File: 803-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e9492be71e54.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Fluconazole** - Fluconazole is the drug of choice for cryptococcal meningitis (in AIDS patients), candidiasis (all forms), and coccidioidomycosis. Immunodeficient individuals (e.g., patients undergoing chemotherapy, as seen here) are at increased risk of developing fungal infections. However, bacteria are the most frequent cause of infection in patients with neutropenia. After blood and urine samples are taken, a patient with neutropenic fever must receive empiric antibiotic treatment.

**C - Piperacillin** - After blood and urine samples are taken, a patient with neutropenic fever must receive empiric antibiotic treatment. Piperacillin has a broad range of antibacterial activity that includes gram-negative bacilli, gram-positive cocci (except for penicillinase-producing S. aureus) and anaerobic pathogens. However, piperacillin itself is not effective against organisms producing beta-lactamases. It would therefore only be appropriate in this patient if administered in combination with tazobactam.

**D - Clindamycin** - After blood and urine samples are taken, a patient with neutropenic fever, as seen here, must receive empiric antibiotic treatment. Clindamycin is effective against anaerobic bacteria and certain gram-positive organisms such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). However, it does not cover Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which is one of the most commonly identified pathogens in neutropenic patients.

**E - Bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage** - In this patient, bronchoscopy could be useful for the detection of bronchopulmonary infection. However, after blood and urine samples are taken, this patient must receive immediate empiric treatment before undergoing other diagnostic procedures.

**F - High-resolution chest CT** - In this patient, a high-resolution chest CT may be useful for the detection of pulmonary infection, as well as for the evaluation of tumor response to chemotherapy. However, after blood and urine samples are taken, this patient should receive immediate treatment prior to undergoing other diagnostic methods.

**G - Serum fungal markers** - Immunodeficient individuals (e.g., patients undergoing chemotherapy) are at increased risk of developing fungal infections. However, bacteria are the most frequent cause of infection in patients with neutropenia. A patient with neutropenic fever must receive immediate empiric treatment after blood and urine samples are taken and prior to initiating other diagnostic tests.

