### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Dermoid cyst** - Mature cystic teratomas (dermoid cysts) are benign germ cell tumors that can manifest as a nontender palpable adnexal mass, which is seen here. Most affected individuals are asymptomatic, and dermoid cysts are frequently diagnosed incidentally on pelvic ultrasonography. Larger teratomas can manifest with increased abdominal girth, pressure symptoms (e.g., urinary frequency, bloating), and lower abdominal pain. Ultrasonography typically shows a heterogeneous mass with a hyperechoic nodule, echogenic shadowing, calcifications, lack of internal vascularity, and/or fluid-fluid levels. In patients of reproductive age, the treatment of choice is ovarian cystectomy, which confirms the diagnosis and prevents complications (e.g., rupture, ovarian torsion, malignant transformation).

Image File: 813-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d933d039b.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Mucinous cystadenoma** - Mucinous cystadenomas are the second most common benign ovarian tumor, are often asymptomatic, and most are incidentally diagnosed on pelvic ultrasonography. However, ultrasonography typically shows a large multilocular cystic mass with thin septations. The mass usually does not have a solid component. Moreover, the peak incidence of mucinous cystadenomas is 30–50 years of age, and this patient is 21 years of age.

**B - Ovarian thecoma** - Ovarian thecomas may be asymptomatic and are often found incidentally on physical examination or as a complex mass on pelvic ultrasonography. However, ovarian thecomas are very rare and usually occur in postmenopausal women. Furthermore, pelvic ultrasonography most commonly shows a well-demarcated, hypoechoic solid mass with smooth and clear margins, rather than a complex mass. Moreover, ovarian thecomas commonly manifest with symptoms of estrogen excess (e.g., abnormal uterine bleeding, endometrial hyperplasia, endometrial neoplasia).

**C - Serous cystadenocarcinoma** - Serous cystadenocarcinomas are the most common malignant ovarian tumors and can manifest as a complex mass on pelvic ultrasound. However, most cases present with symptoms such as abdominal pain or abnormal vaginal bleeding in older women. Moreover, this patient has no risk factors for malignant epithelial carcinomas of the ovary (e.g., family history, genetic predisposition, endometriosis, early menarche, late menopause).

**E - Corpus luteum cyst** - Corpus luteum cysts may be asymptomatic and are often diagnosed incidentally on physical examination and pelvic ultrasonography. However, a corpus luteum cyst manifests as a simple ovarian cyst with diffusely thick walls that have increased vascularity (“ring of fire” sign) and sometimes intracystic hemorrhage, none of which is seen here. Moreover, combined oral contraceptive pills, which this patient is currently taking, inhibit the development of corpus luteum cysts by suppressing ovulation, so this diagnosis is unlikely.

