### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Inpatient treatment with intravenous cefoxitin and doxycycline** - Inpatient treatment with intravenous antibiotics is necessary for this woman with severe PID (high fever, perihepatitis) and intermittent vomiting. Antibiotic therapy consists of cefoxitin (or cefotetan) against N. gonorrhoeae and doxycycline against C. trachomatis, the two most commonly isolated pathogens in PID. Clindamycin plus gentamicin can be used as an equivalent alternative. To enhance anaerobic coverage (e.g., in patients with tuboovarian abscess), metronidazole may be added to the treatment regimen.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Inpatient treatment with intravenous cefoxitin and vancomycin** - Inpatient treatment with intravenous cefoxitin is recommended for patients with severe PID (e.g., with high fever, perihepatitis). While this antibiotic covers Neisseria gonorrhoeae, vancomycin is only effective against gram-positive organisms (e.g., Staphylococcus aureus), and not against the most common causes of PID (i.e., infection with Neisseria gonorrhoeae or Chlamydia trachomatis). This patient requires a treatment regimen that also covers C. trachomatis.

**B - Outpatient treatment with intramuscular ceftriaxone and oral metronidazole** - Outpatient treatment with intramuscular ceftriaxone and oral metronidazole can be considered for patients with mild-to-moderate PID if infection with Chlamydia trachomatis is excluded. Ceftriaxone is effective against Neisseria gonorrhoeae and metronidazole is used to treat infections with anaerobes (e.g., bacterial vaginosis, Trichomonas vaginitis). This patient, however, requires a treatment regimen that also covers C. trachomatis.

**D - Inpatient treatment with intravenous cefotetan and metronidazole** - Inpatient treatment with intravenous cefotetan and metronidazole can be considered for patients with severe PID if infection with Chlamydia trachomatis is excluded. Cefotetan is effective against Neisseria gonorrhoeae and metronidazole is used to treat infections with anaerobes (e.g., bacterial vaginosis, Trichomonas vaginitis). This patient requires a treatment regimen that also covers C. trachomatis.

**E - Outpatient treatment with intramuscular ceftriaxone and oral doxycycline** - Outpatient treatment with intramuscular ceftriaxone and oral doxycycline is typically indicated for patients with mild-to-moderate PID. Because this patient presents with severe PID (high fever, perihepatitis) and may not tolerate oral medications (due to vomiting), another approach in management is more appropriate.

