### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Surgical exploration and oophorectomy** - The most appropriate diagnostic approach in patients with ovarian masses that have a high risk of malignancy is surgical exploration and oophorectomy. Ultrasound features suggestive of malignancy include irregularly thickened septa, indistinct borders, and solid components. Because of the highly malignant nature of ovarian cancer cells, any disruption to the tumor capsule (e.g., during fine-needle aspiration biopsy) may result in malignant cell dissemination into the peritoneum, which significantly worsens the prognosis. Removing the mass with the respective ovary en bloc ensures tumor capsule integrity, which lowers the risk of malignant spillage. Patients with a confirmed diagnosis of ovarian cancer require further evaluation for cancer staging and treatment.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Serial pelvic ultrasounds** - Serial pelvic ultrasound is used to closely monitor ovarian masses in patients with no other clinical findings to support or rule out a diagnosis of ovarian cancer. This patient, however, has TUS findings that are highly suggestive of ovarian cancer, which requires further investigation at this time.

**C - Fine-needle aspiration biopsy** - Fine-needle aspiration biopsy is a minimally invasive procedure commonly used for the diagnosis of newly developed masses (e.g., breast or thyroid nodules). In patients with ovarian masses, however, this intervention is contraindicated because any disruption of the potential tumor capsule could result in malignant cell dissemination into the peritoneum, significantly worsening the prognosis.

**D - Cytoreductive surgery with neoadjuvant chemotherapy** - Cytoreductive surgery with neoadjuvant chemotherapy is the most appropriate treatment option for advanced ovarian cancer in patients with a high surgical risk or an extensive disease that cannot be treated with surgery alone. Although the characteristics of this patient's adnexal mass are suggestive of ovarian cancer, this diagnosis has not yet been confirmed. A different intervention should be performed at this time.

**E - Genetic testing for BRCA mutations** - Genetic testing for BRCA mutations is indicated in all patients with confirmed ovarian cancer. Although this patient's ovarian mass raises concern for ovarian cancer, a diagnosis has not yet been confirmed. A different intervention is indicated at this time.

