### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Depot medroxyprogesterone acetate injection** - Depot medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA) is a highly effective long-acting contraceptive option for adult women of all ages who do not wish to become pregnant in the near future. The high progestin dose in DMPA injections typically leads to lighter periods or amenorrhea, which is a desirable side effect in this woman with dysmenorrhea, menorrhagia, and iron deficiency anemia. Moreover, DMPA is administered at 3-month intervals instead of daily or pericoitally, which facilitates patient adherence. Finally, DMPA is a good alternative for women with contraindications to estrogen therapy (e.g., migraine with aura). Common side effects include breakthrough bleeding, a reversible reduction in bone mineral density, and a delay in return of fertility of up to 18 months after discontinuation.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Copper intrauterine device** - A copper intrauterine device (IUD) is a highly effective contraceptive that does not contain hormones and is, therefore, a good alternative for women with contraindications to estrogen therapy (e.g., migraine with aura), like this patient. Moreover, a copper IUD provides long-term contraception (up to 10 years). However, copper IUDs often increase dysmenorrhea and menorrhagia, which is why they are not recommended in this patient.

**B - Diaphragm with spermicidal foam** - A diaphragm with spermicidal foam, gel, or cream is a moderately effective nonhormonal contraceptive. Ideally, it is inserted into the vagina less than one hour prior to sexual intercourse. However, recurrent urinary tract infections, which this patient has, are a relative contraindication for diaphragm use. Moreover, in contrast to other contraceptive methods, this method does not affect menses. This patient would likely benefit from a contraceptive option that addresses both her menstrual abnormalities and family planning preferences.

**C - Progestin-only contraceptive pill** - Progestin-only contraceptive pills (POPs) are a good alternative for women with contraindications to estrogen therapy (e.g., migraine with aura), like this patient. However, POPs require strict adherence and are, therefore, not recommended for this patient, who has a hard time remembering to take her medications.

**D - Fertility awareness-based methods** - Fertility awareness-based methods (natural family planning) have no side effects, but the failure rate with typical use is approx. 25%. As this patient does not wish to become pregnant in the near future, this is not an advisable method. Moreover, in contrast to other contraceptive methods, this method does not affect menses. This patient would likely benefit from a contraceptive option that addresses both her menstrual abnormalities and family planning preferences.

**E - Combined oral contraceptive therapy** - Combined oral contraceptive (COC) therapy containing estrogen and progestin can lead to lighter and less painful periods, which is beneficial in patients with dysmenorrhea, menorrhagia, and iron deficiency anemia. However, COC therapy is contraindicated here because exogenous estrogen increases the risk of stroke in patients who have a history of migraine with aura. Moreover, COC use requires daily adherence, and is, therefore, not recommended for this patient, who has a hard time remembering to take her medications.

