### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Mammography of both breasts** - The initial diagnostic workup of patients with suspected IBC should include mammography of both breasts and a core needle biopsy of the breast, which, if invasive carcinoma is shown, confirms the diagnosis of IBC. Mammography is usually followed by ultrasonography of the breast and regional lymph nodes to evaluate for lymph node metastases. In patients with confirmed IBC, at least two skin punch biopsies should also be obtained to assess for dermal lymphovascular invasion. Clinical staging should be concluded by screening for distant metastases and receptor testing.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the axillary lymph nodes** - A fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the axillary lymph nodes is indicated in patients with a confirmed diagnosis of IBC who have palpable or suspicious lymph nodes. Results are used to establish accurate clinical staging and prognosis. Although this patient's axillary lymphadenopathy raises suspicion for lymph node metastases, a different diagnostic step is indicated first.

**C - Excisional biopsy of the skin** - An excisional skin biopsy is indicated in cases of suspected skin cancer (e.g., basal cell cancer, melanoma) but not in the diagnostic workup of IBC. In this patient, a core needle biopsy of the breast should be performed, which, if invasive carcinoma is shown, establishes the diagnosis of IBC. On further evaluation, at least two skin punch biopsies should also be obtained and examined for dermal lymphovascular invasion, which is characteristic of IBC.

**D - CT scan of the chest** - A CT scan of the chest (typically followed by abdominal and pelvic CT scans) is indicated in patients with a confirmed diagnosis of IBC to assess for distant metastases, which are seen in the majority of cases at initial diagnosis. Although this patient might require a CT scan of the chest during further evaluation, a different diagnostic step is more appropriate at this time.

**E - Cytology of nipple discharge** - Cytology of nipple discharge is not routinely indicated in patients with suspected breast malignancy because it has little diagnostic value. Distinguishing malignant cells from crenated or apoptotic cells is technically challenging. In addition, cancerous ducts do not necessarily excrete malignant cells into the nipple discharge. Furthermore, even if cytology reveals malignant cells, localization of the tumor remains difficult.

