### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Elevated serum CA-125 level** - Ovarian epithelial tumors are the most common type (up to 70%) of all ovarian tumors and are associated with an elevated level of serum CA-125. This patient has several risk factors for ovarian cancer such as nulliparity, early menarche, and late menopause. Given her symptoms and her risk factors, it is very likely that this patient's CA-125 is elevated.

Image File: 841-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5639fcbd76e6b.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Elevated serum beta-hCG level** - Elevated β-hCG levels in a postmenopausal woman are suggestive of tumors such as choriocarcinoma or other germ cell tumors. Choriocarcinoma often presents with vaginal bleeding, shortness of breath, or chest pain, usually in patients of childbearing age. It is incredibly rare in women over the age of 40. Germ cell tumors produce different symptoms depending on where they arise, but usually also affect a population under the age of 30. This middle-aged woman is at low risk for developing choriocarcinoma or other germ cell tumors. Instead, she is at increased risk for developing epithelial ovarian cancer, especially given her long estrogen exposure.

**B - Proliferation of endometrial glands** - Women with excessive estrogen exposure from nulliparity, early menarche, and late menopause, as in this patient, are at increased risk for developing endometrial cancer. In endometrial cancer, endometrial glands undergo excessive cell growth and proliferation. However, early endometrial carcinoma is almost always associated with vaginal bleeding after menopause. This patient's symptoms of bloating, ascites, and weight loss in the setting of an adnexal mass are more suggestive of ovarian cancer, though.

**C - Chocolate cyst of the left ovary** - When endometriosis affects the ovaries, blood may build up over months or years and eventually turn brown, forming what is known as a chocolate cyst or ovarian endometrioma. Although an endometrioma may present with an adnexal mass as in this patient, it usually affects premenopausal women. Furthermore, patients with endometriosis often have pain, which this patient does not have.

**E - Cervical dysplasia on cervical smear** - Cervical dysplasia found on screening Pap smear is associated with subsequent development of cervical cancer. Early cervical cancer is usually asymptomatic, but late cervical cancer is associated with vaginal bleeding, pelvic pain, or pain during intercourse, none of which this patient has.

