### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Radical vulvectomy** - Radical vulvectomy is usually the first-line treatment for patients with invasive vulvar cancer. Inguinofemoral lymphadenectomy may also be performed to assess lymph node involvement. In patients with extensive or unresectable disease (e.g., larger tumor size, invasion of adjacent structures), a combination of chemotherapy and radiation is generally preferred before surgery.

Patients with vulvar cancer typically present with a unifocal, erythematous, vulvar lesion that can be associated with local pruritus, a burning sensation, bleeding, and/or pain. Squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva is often associated with persistent human papillomavirus infection and smoking. Another risk factor for developing vulvar cancer is the presence of precancerous lesions like lichen sclerosus. Patients with lichen sclerosus should undergo punch biopsy to exclude squamous cell carcinoma.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - High-potency steroids** - High-potency steroids are indicated in the treatment of lichen sclerosus, which can manifest with an erythematous, whitish lesion in the labia majora. However, a punch biopsy would show epidermal atrophy with hyperkeratosis rather than dysplastic squamous cells. Moreover, lichen sclerosus' dominant symptom is severe pruritus, which is absent in this patient.

**B - Curettage** - Curettage is a treatment option for anogenital warts, which can manifest with exophytic, vulvar lesions. Although a punch biopsy of a genital wart would also show dysplastic cells, invasion of the basement membrane would not be expected. This finding is consistent with invasive vulvar cancer, for which curettage is not indicated.

**D - Cryotherapy** - Cryotherapy is a treatment option for anogenital warts, which can manifest with exophytic vulvar lesions. Although a punch biopsy of a genital wart would also show dysplastic cells, invasion of the basement membrane would not be expected. This finding is consistent with invasive vulvar cancer, for which cryotherapy is not indicated.

**E - Topical chemotherapy** - Topical chemotherapy can be used for the treatment of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN). This patient's punch biopsy shows invasion of the basement membrane, which is not consistent with VIN but with invasive vulvar cancer, for which topical chemotherapy is not an appropriate treatment.

