### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Serum β-hCG** - In cases of suspected pregnancy, serum ß-hCG testing can be used to analyze a patient's serum. A pregnancy is detectable 6–9 days after fertilization in serum (or ∼ 14 days after fertilization in urine). Signs of pregnancy include amenorrhea, nausea, vomiting, breast enlargement and tenderness, edema, dyspnea, and polyuria. This 16-year-old girl's presentation raises suspicion for pregnancy, and although she reports that she has not had her first menstrual period yet, a pregnancy should be ruled out first before performing other diagnostic steps.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Recommend protein-calorie supplementation** - Protein-calorie supplementation is recommended for patients with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism caused by low body weight, low body fat, or extensive sports. Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism can lead to functional hypothalamic amenorrhea (FHA), a common cause of secondary amenorrhea. This patient has primary amenorrhea and a BMI within the normal range, making FHA an unlikely diagnosis.

**B - Pelvic ultrasound** - After ruling out other differential diagnoses or in the case of suspicious findings, a pelvic ultrasound should be performed in the search for anatomical causes of the patient's primary amenorrhea such as Mullerian duct defects or possible vaginal or cervical outlet obstruction. Therefore, pelvic ultrasound should be considered only after other underlying causes for her amenorrhea have been ruled out.

**C - Fasting glucose and lipid panel** - Fasting glucose and lipid panel is recommended in cases of suspected polycystic ovary syndrome. PCOS is the result of reduced insulin sensitivity, resulting in hyperinsulinemia. This creates hormonal changes (e.g., increased androgen production) causing impaired follicle maturation, virilization, and metabolic syndrome. Although primary amenorrhea, as seen in this patient, can be caused by PCOS, another test should be performed to rule out other more likely diagnoses.

**D - Serum fT4** - Serum fT4 testing helps evaluate for hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism, both of which may lead to menstrual disturbances. In women with a hypoactive thyroid gland, TRH is upregulated, which causes increased production of prolactin that inhibits GnRH and thereby estrogen levels. Amenorrhea can also occur in cases of severe hyperthyroidism, since serum sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) levels become elevated and result in lower serum free (unbound) estradiol concentrations. Although many institutions may conduct thyroid function testing parallel to other initial laboratory tests in this situation, TSH rather than fT4 would be most appropriate anyway. Measuring fT4 should only be done parallel to or following TSH testing.

**E - Echocardiography** - Echocardiography is used to assess the heart and, especially, valve function. Although this patient has a 2/6 systolic murmur, the primary amenorrhea should first be examined. If Turner syndrome were suspected, echocardiography should then be performed to assess for potential cardiovascular abnormalities. However, an innocent flow murmur is common during pregnancy and without any cardiological symptoms does not require further evaluation.

**G - Karyotyping** - Karyotyping should be performed if a chromosomal abnormality such as Turner syndrome is suspected. This patient does not present with the typical Turner syndrome features such as a webbed neck and widely spaced nipples. Although Turner syndrome is among the most common causes of primary amenorrhea, another test should be performed initially.

Image File: 843-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_570621871a5d4.jpg

**H - GnRH stimulation testing** - GnRH stimulation testing in pediatrics is most commonly performed in the diagnostics for precocious or delayed puberty. Although this patient presents with primary amenorrhea, other tests should be performed before initiating puberty diagnostics.

