### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Lymphangiosarcoma** - Lymphangiosarcoma is a rare, secondary malignancy that originates in vascular endothelial cells and occurs secondary to chronic lymphedema, classically in women who have undergone axillary lymphadenectomy after mastectomy. It typically presents as multiple purple-colored, macules, and/or papules, and can also present with tender, subcutaneous nodules.

Image File: 844-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a103071c8eab.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Cellulitis** - Chronic lymphedema is an important risk factor for development of cellulitis and other soft tissue infections (including abscess), and this patient is certainly at ongoing risk of infection given her long-standing edema. However, she lacks typical features of cellulitis (e.g., pain, erythema, warmth, tenderness, systemic symptoms), which makes an infection very unlikely. Additionally, an untreated cellulitis would have progressed more quickly and the chronicity of her symptoms does not fit with this diagnosis.

Image File: 844-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5880d280586e0.jpg

**C - Melanoma** - Melanoma, a malignant skin cancer originating from melanocytes, should always be considered in the differential for a growing, asymmetric, hyperpigmented skin lesion. While this patient is at increased risk (age, previous skin cancer) for development of melanoma, the chronicity of her lesion and the presence of chronic lymphedema are suggestive of an alternative diagnosis.

Image File: 844-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_54806bfcaab67.jpg

**D - Thrombophlebitis** - Thrombophlebitis of a superficial vein typically presents with erythema and tenderness along the vein, and can cause congestion of venous vasculature distal to the thrombus. In the upper extremities, it is usually associated with intravenous catheter use. While the distribution of this patient's lesions could potentially fit with a thrombophlebitis, she does not have the associated pain and erythema that would be expected. Her history of chronic lymphedema suggests a different diagnosis.

**E - Physical abuse** - Elder abuse should always be considered in an elderly patient presenting with possible bruises or hematomas. However, the chronicity, progressive growth in size, and history of lymphedema make an alternative diagnosis more likely.

**F - Lichen planus** - Cutaneous lichen planus typically presents as purple, polygonal, pruritic papules, or plaques on the lower back, wrist, and/or ankles. It can also present with a lattice-like network of white stripes, called Wickham striae. This patient lacks major features of lichen planus (pruritus, polygonal shape) and the distribution of her lesions and association with chronic lymphedema are suggestive of a different diagnosis.

Image File: 844-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_541069a66fd35.jpg

**G - Kaposi sarcoma** - Kaposi sarcoma may also present with purple-colored skin plaques of the extremities that can progress to deeper, more nodular, and, occasionally, ulcerative, lesions. However, the lesions occur in patients with significantly immunocompromised status (e.g., AIDS, transplant recipients). The absence of severe immunocompromise in this elderly woman makes this diagnosis highly unlikely and her history suggests an alternative diagnosis.

Image File: 844-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_599d6975c708c.jpg

