### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Anovulation** - Anovulatory cycles are the most common cause of abnormal uterine bleeding in otherwise healthy adolescents and typically occur up to 2 years after menarche due to an immature hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis. Anovulation leads to a deficit in progesterone production, while unopposed estrogen continues to cause abnormal growth of the endometrial lining and vessels. If increasing estrogen levels trigger a negative feedback in the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, a drop in FSH/LH and estrogen levels leads to a sudden loss of endometrium that can cause heavy and prolonged bleeding. Patients should be reassured that this phenomenon is not pathological by nature and that no further workup is required.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pituitary adenoma** - Patients with pituitary adenoma may also present with oligomenorrhea, as seen in this patient. Patients with functioning (i.e., hormone-producing) adenomas (e.g., prolactinomas) also present with galactorrhea, which is absent in this patient. Nonsecreting pituitary macroadenomas can exert a mass effect on the remaining gland or the hypothalamus, resulting in oligomenorrhea due to deficient FSH and LH. However, additional signs, including headache, visual deficits, and symptoms associated with other hormone deficiencies (e.g., hypothyroidism) would also be expected.

**B - Endometriosis** - Endometriosis affects up to 10% of women and presents with a variety of menstrual abnormalities. However, rather than oligomenorrhea, patients more commonly present with dysmenorrhea, premenstrual or postmenstrual bleeding. The most common symptom is chronic pelvic pain that occurs shortly before the menstrual cycle begins. Rectovaginal tenderness and adnexal masses on physical examination would also be expected.

**C - Polycystic ovary syndrome** - PCOS is characterized by hyperandrogenism, oligoovulation or anovulation, and polycystic ovaries. Patients often present with menstrual irregularities (e.g., primary amenorrhea, oligomenorrhea, or secondary amenorrhea) during adolescence. Also, signs of obesity, metabolic syndrome, and virilization (e.g., excess hair growth, acne) due to hyperandrogenism would be present. This patient's oligomenorrhea likely results from another underlying cause.

**E - Ovarian insufficiency** - Ovarian insufficiency is characterized by less frequent (or even absent) menstrual cycles and hypoestrogenism in women < 40 years of age. Patients present with perimenopausal, autonomic symptoms (e.g., hot flashes, heat intolerance), and atrophic features (e.g., breast tenderness, vaginal dryness), none of which are present in this patient.

