### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Inform the patient that it is difficult to determine if menopause has occurred in individuals using hormonal contraception** - Menopause is a clinical diagnosis that is made when a patient experiences 12 months of amenorrhea while not taking hormonal contraception. This patient has experienced only 7 months of amenorrhea while taking a combined oral contraceptive pill. To accurately determine whether menopause has been reached, patients need to assess whether amenorrhea persists following the discontinuation of oral contraceptives. Conditions associated with hormone dysregulation (e.g., polycystic ovarian syndrome) manifest with irregular menses, which could include amenorrhea lasting > 12 months. In these patients, menopause is confirmed with a serum FSH level at least 4 weeks after stopping hormonal contraception.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Advise the patient that menses will likely return after contraception is discontinued** - It is not possible to know whether this patient's menses will return after discontinuing oral contraceptives. While it is possible that she is still able to menstruate at 45 years of age, her age and family history of early menopause are risk factors for ovarian failure. Therefore, advising this patient that her menses will return after stopping hormonal contraception is not the most appropriate response from the physician.

**C - Recommend that the patient's hormone levels are measured to confirm menopause** - Measuring serum hormone levels, e.g., follicular stimulating hormone (FSH), is an ineffective test for menopause in patients currently taking oral contraceptive pills (OCPs). Because OCPs reversibly suppress gonadotropic hormones, endogenous hormone levels will always be low in a patient taking OCPs. It is, therefore, not possible to diagnose menopause in this patient who has only experienced 7 months of amenorrhea while also taking OCPs. In certain patients with underlying disorders that cause irregular menses, menopause can be confirmed by measuring a serum FSH level at least 4 weeks after stopping hormonal contraception.

**D - Reassure the patient that contraception can be discontinued because menopause has occurred** - Menopause cannot be diagnosed in patients, like this one, who are taking combined oral contraceptives (OCPs). Therefore, it is inappropriate to tell this patient that menopause has occurred. It would be reasonable to stop oral contraceptives to assess for the return of menses and the presence of perimenopausal symptoms. Patients should be counseled about the risk of pregnancy before stopping OCPs.

