### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Surgical resection and chemotherapy** - Surgical resection is associated with minimal risk for the fetus regardless of the gestational age and chemotherapy may be given after the first trimester. Given the patient's tumor size of 3.0 cm, she falls into the category of high-risk patients and should, therefore, undergo adjuvant chemotherapy.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Surgical resection and radiotherapy** - Surgical resection is associated with minimal risk to the fetus regardless of gestational age, but radiotherapy should not be used during pregnancy because of the risk of fetal damage.

**C - Trastuzumab therapy** - Trastuzumab can be considered in nonpregnant patients that have an HER2-positive tumor. During pregnancy, however, it should be avoided because of the risk of fetal damage.

**D - Surgical resection** - Although surgical resection is recommended for the treatment of gestational breast cancer because of the low risk of fetal damage, this intervention should be combined with a systemic therapy strategy in this high-risk breast cancer patient.

**E - Hormonal therapy and trastuzumab** - The combination of hormonal therapy and trastuzumab is a recommended adjuvant treatment after surgical resection for estrogen-receptor-positive, HER2-positive breast cancer. However, both treatment options are contraindicated during pregnancy because of the risk of fetal damage.

**F - Termination of pregnancy** - Termination of pregnancy is not recommended in this patient because there is treatment available that is associated with only minimal risk of fetal damage. Furthermore, pregnancy termination is not associated with better breast cancer survival.

