### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Subareolar ultrasound** - Because breast tissue is denser in young women, limiting the efficacy of mammograms, ultrasound is the first-line imaging modality in women < 30 years of age with focal breast symptoms or findings. Pathological nipple discharge is usually a sign of a lactiferous duct pathology. A subareolar ultrasound focuses on the periareolar region, where the lactiferous ducts converge, and can detect ductal abnormalities (e.g., dilated ducts, ductal mass/nodules). Another advantage of ultrasound over mammography is the avoidance of radiation exposure.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Serum prolactin levels** - Hyperprolactinemia causes galactorrhea (bilateral milky discharge) and amenorrhea in premenopausal women. Common causes of physiological hyperprolactinemia include pregnancy and emotional stress, while those of pathological hyperprolactinemia include a pituitary adenoma (presents with headaches, bitemporal hemianopsia) or intake of certain drugs (e.g., antipsychotics, SSRIs). This patient presents with unilateral sanguineous nipple discharge, has normal menstrual cycles, and has no history to suggest either physiological or pathological hyperprolactinemia.

**B - Ductography** - Ductography is indicated in patients who present with pathological nipple discharge if imaging is inconclusive or shows features suspicious of malignancy (e.g., ductal irregularity). Ductography is not routinely indicated for the evaluation of pathological nipple discharge because it is expensive, exposes the patient to radiation, and is technically difficult to perform. Also, most causes of nipple discharge in women < 30 years of age are benign.

**D - Pregnancy test** - Nipple discharge during pregnancy can occasionally be blood-tinged due to the hypervascular developing mammary tissue. More frequently, physiological nipple discharge related to pregnancy occurs from bilateral breasts and is milky (due to physiological hyperprolactinemia). Although this patient's inconsistent contraception use increases the possibility of her being pregnant, sanguineous discharge from a single nipple makes this diagnosis unlikely; additionally, her last menstrual period was 12 days ago.

**E - Image-guided core biopsy of the affected duct** - An image-guided biopsy of the affected duct can be used for histological diagnosis in a patient with pathological nipple discharge if an imaging modality shows features suspicious of malignancy (e.g., irregularity of the duct wall). As breast cancer is rare in women < 30 years (except for those with a hereditary predisposition or prior chest radiation), core biopsy is not routinely indicated for pathological nipple discharge.

**F - Nipple discharge cytology** - Cytological examination of nipple discharge is not recommended because of its low sensitivity in detecting malignancy, high false-negative rates (a negative cytology does not definitively rule out malignancy), and low-cost effectiveness. In addition, cytology, if positive, does not help localize the lesion nor differentiate between an in-situ and an invasive carcinoma.

**G - Breast MRI** - MRI scan of the breast may be considered only when other approaches have failed to identify a cause of pathological nipple discharge. MRI is not a first-line imaging modality as it is expensive, has significant false-positive rates (leading to unnecessary investigations and patient anxiety), and has no added value in patients with unilateral bloody nipple discharge with no signs of a malignancy on conventional diagnostic examinations.

**H - Mammography** - Mammography is the recommended imaging modality for the evaluation of focal breast signs or symptoms in women older than 30 years of age. Breast tissue is very dense in women < 30 years, limiting the efficacy of mammograms to detect small lesions. Mammography also exposes the patient to radiation risk. Also, because the incidence of breast cancer in women < 30 years of age is very low (≤ 0.4%), it is not recommended as the first-line imaging modality in this patient group.

**I - Reassurance** - Patients with physiological nipple discharge do not require extensive investigation or any treatment. This patient, however, presents with features of pathological nipple discharge, which should be further investigated.

