### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Flagellated protozoa** - Trichomonas vaginalis is an anaerobic, motile protozoan with multiple flagella. Patients typically have foul-smelling, frothy, yellow-green, purulent vaginal discharge with a pH > 4.5. Transmission of this disease occurs through unprotected sex. Most patients remain asymptomatic. Treatment consists of oral metronidazole or tinidazole for the patient and sexual partner(s).

Image File: 866-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5602abac344c0.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Obligate intracellular organisms** - Chlamydia is an obligate intracellular bacterium and the most common cause of sexually transmitted bacterial disease worldwide. Infection with chlamydia is often asymptomatic. If symptoms appear, they typically include (muco)purulent endocervical discharge and intermenstrual or postcoital bleeding, which this patient lacks. Furthermore, physical examination of the cervix often causes bleeding, whereas the bimanual examination of this patient was unremarkable.

**B - Gram-negative diplococci** - Gram-negative diplococci indicate infection with Neisseria gonorrhoeae (gonorrhea). The disease is transmitted sexually and is usually asymptomatic in women. If symptoms arise, they typically include purulent, creamy vaginal discharge and intermenstrual bleeding but no vulvar erythema.

**C - Positive whiff test** - The whiff test is performed by adding potassium hydroxide to a mount containing vaginal discharge. It is positive if the test produces a fishy odor, which is highly characteristic of bacterial vaginosis. The vaginal discharge in bacterial vaginosis also has pH > 4.5. Unlike in this patient, bacterial vaginosis usually presents as a white or grey-colored discharge without any vulvovaginal erythema.

Image File: 866-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589add1a4409a.jpg

**D - Pseudohyphae** - Pseudohyphae are loosely filamentous forms of fungi assumed by many yeasts, particularly Candida albicans, during growth. They are commonly seen on wet mounts of patients with vaginal yeast infections (vulvovaginal candidiasis), which are associated with odorless white, crumbly, and sticky vaginal discharge that may resemble cottage cheese. Pregnancy, antibiotic use, and immunosuppression are predisposing factors for vaginal thrush. Even though this patient had a course of amoxicillin, her discharge is foul-smelling and yellow-green, making a candidal infection very unlikely. Also, vaginal pH is typically normal (4-4.5) for vulvovaginal candidiasis rather than elevated.

Image File: 866-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589ada6b59ec2.jpg

