### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Lumpectomy with sentinel lymph node biopsy, followed by radiation and hormone therapy** - Treatment of early stage invasive breast cancer involves breast-conserving therapy with lumpectomy followed by radiation therapy, as well as sentinel lymph node biopsy to evaluate for spread. Given that this patient has a hormone receptor-positive cancer, she should also receive adjuvant hormone therapy (e.g., tamoxifen).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Nipple-sparing mastectomy with axillary lymph node dissection followed by hormone therapy** - Less extensive surgical excision provides the same survival outcomes for early breast cancer as nipple-sparing mastectomy. In addition, axillary lymph node dissection can cause complications such as lymphedema and would only be indicated if the patient had a previous lymph node biopsy that was positive.

**B - Nipple-sparing mastectomy with axillary lymph node dissection, followed by radiation and hormone therapy** - Although a selected group of patients may request aggressive management of early breast cancer with a nipple-sparing mastectomy (NSA), less extensive surgical procedures have proven to provide the same survival outcomes with fewer complications. In early-stage breast cancer, mastectomy may be performed because of patient preference or a large tumor-to-breast ratio, neither of which is the case for this patient. Moreover, axillary lymph node dissection may cause complications such as lymphedema and would only be indicated if the patient had a previous lymph node biopsy that was positive.

**C - Lumpectomy with sentinel lymph node biopsy followed by hormone therapy** - Sentinel lymph node biopsy is indicated for all patients with no clinical signs of axillary lymph node involvement in order to rule out microscopic spread and determine the cancer stage, which will determine the subsequent course of treatment. Given that this patient has a hormone receptor-positive cancer, she would also benefit from adjuvant hormone therapy. However, all patients who undergo lumpectomy require one additional therapeutic modality in order to minimize the risk of recurrence.

**D - Radical mastectomy followed by hormone therapy** - Radical mastectomy is very rarely used in the modern treatment of early-stage invasive breast cancer because it is associated with high rates of complications (e.g., lymphedema, sensory deficits under the axilla) and does not provide additional survival benefit when compared with less invasive options.

