### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Major depressive disorder** - Major depressive disorder (MDD) is an episodic mood disorder that is characterized by the presence of at least 5 SIGECAP symptoms present for at least 2 weeks with at least one of the symptoms being depressed mood or anhedonia. This patient has at least 5 of these symptoms (sleep disturbance, fatigue, appetite change, psychomotor change, anhedonia). First-line treatment of MDD includes pharmacotherapy with SSRIs.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Persistent depressive disorder** - Persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia) is a mood disorder characterized by depressed mood in addition to ≥ 2 SIGECAP symptoms. However, these symptoms must be present during most of the day, for the majority of days, for ≥ 2 years, not 2 months. Also, this patient presents with ≥ 5 of the SIGECAP symptoms, making a different mood disorder more likely.

**C - Adjustment disorder** - Adjustment disorder with depressed mood is a psychiatric condition in which depressive symptoms (e.g., depressed mood, sleep disturbance, fatigue, feelings of guilt, appetite change, psychomotor change, and/or anhedonia) occur in the setting of a significant stressor and last for less than 6 months. The patient's deployment to Afghanistan would be considered a stressor, but it was 2 years ago, which is not within the timeframe for adjustment disorder.

**D - Acute stress disorder** - Acute stress disorder may show symptoms like depressed mood, sleep disturbance, and fatigue, which develop after exposure to a traumatic event, like this patient's deployment to Afghanistan. However, symptoms usually include intrusive thoughts (recurrent, involuntary, distressing thoughts or memories of the event), dissociation (dissociative amnesia), avoidance (efforts to avoid distressing memories of the event), and arousal (paranoia, anger). Also, the diagnosis requires that symptoms last between 3 days and 1 month after trauma, not > 2 months like in this patient.

**E - Post traumatic stress disorder** - Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is characterized by symptoms like feelings of guilt, anhedonia, depressed mood, sleep disturbance, fatigue, and appetite change, which should be present for > 1 month. However, other criteria of PTSD are absent, including flashbacks, hypervigilance, and avoidance of triggering stimuli.

