### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Intravenous administration of warmed normal saline** - This patient has severe hypothermia, which is defined by a core body temperature < 28°C (82°F). Manifestations of severe hypothermia include fixed pupils, rigidity, hypotension, coma, and arrhythmias, as seen in this patient. Additional manifestations include areflexia, pulmonary edema, apnea, and oliguria. Following emergent resuscitation, active internal rewarming is the most appropriate treatment for patients with severe hypothermia. Active internal rewarming techniques include intravenous administration of warmed crystalloid solution, warmed irrigation of the peritoneum, and extracorporeal blood rewarming.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increasing the temperature of the room** - Increasing the temperature of the room is a passive external rewarming technique used in the management of patients with mild hypothermia, which is defined by a core body temperature of 32–35°C (90–95°F) and has manifestations that include tachycardia, tachypnea, confusion, amnesia, dysarthria, impaired judgment, and ataxia. Other passive external rewarming techniques include removing wet clothing and covering with blankets. Passive external warming will not adequately treat this patient, who has severe hypothermia.

**B - Intravenous administration of tissue plasminogen activator** - Intravenous administration of tissue plasminogen activator is used to treat patients with severe frostbite who are at high risk for amputation. Though this patient has manifestations of frostbite (e.g., pale and hard fingers and toes) that should be further evaluated and treated, these actions are not the most appropriate next steps in management.

**C - Intravenous administration of diltiazem** - Intravenous administration of diltiazem can be used for rate control in patients with atrial fibrillation. However, rate control is not emergently needed to treat this patient's arrhythmia, which will likely resolve upon treatment of his underlying severe hypothermia.

**D - Application of heating pads to the extremities** - Application of heating pads to the extremities is an active external rewarming technique used in the management of patients with moderate hypothermia, which is defined by a core body temperature of 28–32°C (82–90°F) and has manifestations that include CNS depression, hypoventilation, hyporeflexia, oliguria, bradycardia, and arrhythmias. Other active external rewarming techniques include the application of warm blankets and warm air. Active external warming will not adequately treat this patient, who has severe hypothermia.

**F - Emergent electrical cardioversion** - Electrical cardioversion is not emergently needed to treat this patient's arrhythmia, which will likely resolve upon treatment of his underlying severe hypothermia.

