### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Disseminated gonococcal infection** - Infection with Neisseria gonorrhoeae is the second most commonly reported infectious disease in the US and can manifest in a localized (e.g., urethritis, pelvic inflammatory disease) or disseminated (arthritis-dermatitis syndrome, purulent gonococcal arthritis) form. The disease is most commonly transmitted during unprotected sex or, in neonates, during birth. Arthritis-dermatitis syndrome typically presents with migratory, asymmetric arthritis, tenosynovitis, and vesicular, pustular, or maculopapular lesions on the trunk and extremities (sometimes involving the palms and soles), as seen in this patient.

Image File: 871-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d916d5cdd.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Lyme arthritis** - Lyme arthritis is a clinical feature of early disseminated Lyme disease (stage II), which begins 3–10 weeks after the tick bite and can present with migratory arthralgia or arthritis, as in this patient. Additional symptoms such as cardiac arrhythmias, Bell's palsy, or meningitis are also common at this stage. While the patient's recent camping trip to Minnesota put him at an increased risk of contracting tick-borne diseases, the violaceous vesiculopustular rash and the absence of additional symptoms make Lyme arthritis an unlikely diagnosis.

Image File: 871-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5639fcbd769a3.jpg

**B - Acute rheumatic fever** - Patients with acute rheumatic fever usually present with migratory polyarthritis and cutaneous lesions, as does this patient. In contrast to the painless violaceous vesiculopustular lesions described in the vignette, though, cutaneous manifestations include subcutaneous nodules and erythema marginatum (annular erythema on the trunk and extremities). Additionally, the condition is usually associated with other symptoms such as pancarditis or Sydenham chorea.

**C - Systemic lupus erythematosus** - SLE can present with arthritis and skin lesions, but the lesions are in the form of a rash that is most commonly found in light-exposed areas such as the face (malar rash). It does not present with violaceous vesiculopustular lesions on the palm. Additionally, the disease usually has a slower onset and presents with associated symptoms such as pleuritis, pericarditis, renal failure, vasculitis, Raynaud's phenomenon, or thromboembolism.

Image File: 871-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5523c36e9eb81.jpg

**E - Reactive arthritis** - Reactive arthritis typically presents with a triad of urethritis, conjunctivitis, and migratory polyarthritis most commonly in young men. While this patient presents with migratory polyarthritis, other associated symptoms of reactive arthritis are absent. He also has no history of recent gastrointestinal or genitourinary infections, making this diagnosis unlikely.

