### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Liver cirrhosis** - Early liver cirrhosis is a serious concern in patients with biliary atresia. Atretic bile ducts prevent biliary outflow, causing retained bile, which is hepatotoxic. Bile retention leads to hepatic inflammation and fibrosis, which can ultimately progress to cirrhosis as early as 9 weeks after birth. Symptoms including jaundice, scleral icterus, and hepatomegaly often become apparent around 2 weeks after birth, as bile production increases, overwhelms the narrowed ducts, and becomes retained in the liver. Treatment consists of hepatoportoenterostomy (HPE), where a connection is made between the hepatic hilus and small intestine to allow for bile drainage. This procedure should be performed as early as possible after diagnosis. However, biliary atresia remains the primary cause for pediatric liver transplantation, as HPE is only a temporizing measure.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Hepatocellular carcinoma** - Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a rare complication of biliary atresia, affecting only 1% of patients. It usually takes many years for HCC to develop and this cancer would, therefore, be a late rather than an early complication of biliary atresia. Patients with a chronic hepatitis B or hepatitis C infection, on the other hand, have a significantly increased risk of developing HCC. This patient was delivered to a healthy woman, making vertically transmitted viral infection unlikely.

**B - Kernicterus** - Kernicterus, or chronic bilirubin encephalopathy (CBE), is a devastating neurological complication that occurs in the setting of severe indirect (unconjugated) hyperbilirubinemia (> 25 mg/dL). CBE develops as a result of excess indirect bilirubin, either due to increased production of unconjugated bilirubin (e.g., hemolysis, red cell membrane defects, erythrocyte enzyme defects) or decreased clearance (e.g., Crigler-Najjar syndromes, Gilbert syndrome). This patient, however, has elevated direct (conjugated) hyperbilirubinemia, making the development of kernicterus unlikely.

**D - Cholecystitis** - Cholecystitis is rare in children, and, if so, almost exclusively occurs in patients over the age of 5. In addition, jaundice, acholic stool, dark urine, and hepatomegaly are associated with cholestatic conditions, rather than acute inflammation of the gall bladder wall. Finally, patients with biliary atresia characteristically lack a gallbladder, which makes cholecystitis an unlikely complication.

Image File: 873-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fec738a5ed05.jpg

**E - Corneal copper deposits** - Corneal copper deposits occur in Wilson disease, which manifests with liver disease (e.g., jaundice, hepatosplenomegaly, abdominal pain) and cholestasis, both of which are seen here. However, Wilson disease most commonly manifests with liver disease at 5–35 years of age, whereas this patient presents with severe cholestasis at 3 weeks after birth. Moreover, while intrahepatic cholestasis is possible in Wilson disease, this neonate's increased GGT and prominent elevation of conjugated bilirubin are more characteristic of extrahepatic biliary obstruction.

