### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Rickettsia rickettsii** - This patient has Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF), a tick-borne disease caused by the bacterium Rickettsia rickettsii and usually transmitted via a tick bite (most commonly from Dermacentor variabilis). This condition is endemic to the Rocky Mountains and southeastern and south-central United States. Clinical manifestations of RMSF include fever, headache, malaise, myalgias, abdominal pain, conjunctivitis, and a rash, as seen in this patient. The rash characteristically develops 2–5 days after the fever on the wrists and ankles and spreads to the trunk, palms, and soles. It becomes petechial and/or hemorrhagic in ∼ 50% of cases. Additional clinical manifestations of RMSF include nausea, hepatosplenomegaly, and noncardiogenic pulmonary edema. The diagnosis of RMSF is typically made clinically, though it can be confirmed via serum IgG titers. The treatment of choice is doxycycline.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Treponema pallidum** - Treponema pallidum causes syphilis, a sexually transmitted infection. Secondary syphilis can cause fever, fatigue, myalgia, headache and a polymorphic, maculopapular rash that appears on the palms and soles. However, this condition does not cause petechiae. In addition, this patient does not have other typical clinical findings of secondary syphilis, including a sore throat, generalized lymphadenopathy, condyloma lata, and patchy alopecia. Moreover, this patient does not have a history of unprotected sexual intercourse.

**B - Herpes simplex virus** - Herpes simplex virus infections can be a trigger for erythema multiforme (EM), a rare, acute hypersensitivity reaction. EM is mainly seen in adults between 20–40 years of age and classically manifests with a maculopapular rash that first appears on the dorsal aspects of the hands and feet and then extends proximally; it can sometimes involve the palms and soles. EM with mucous membrane involvement and systemic symptoms (e.g., fever, malaise, and myalgia) is termed EM major. However, this condition does not typically cause headaches, conjunctivitis, abdominal pain, or petechiae. In addition, this patient does not have arthralgias, a typical symptom of EM major.

**C - Coxsackievirus A** - Coxsackievirus A causes hand, foot, and mouth disease (HFMD), a condition that can cause fever, malaise, and a maculopapular rash on the hands and feet, including the palms and soles. However, HFMD does not typically cause headaches, myalgias, or conjunctivitis. In addition, this patient does not have oral ulcers, a common manifestation of HFMD.

**D - Ehrlichia chaffeensis** - Ehrlichia chaffeensis causes ehrlichiosis, a tick-borne disease that can cause fever, headaches, malaise, and myalgias. This condition can also manifest with a maculopapular or petechial rash, though this finding is only present in a small percentage of adult patients. Ehrlichiosis is found primarily in the southeastern, south-central, and mid-Atlantic parts of the United States. It does not cause conjunctivitis or abdominal pain. In addition, this patient does not have other typical features of ehrlichiosis, including altered mental status, stiff neck, clonus, gastrointestinal bleeding, and renal failure.

**F - Varicella-zoster virus** - Varicella-zoster virus causes chickenpox, which can manifest with fever, malaise, headache, myalgias, and a pruritic rash that starts on the trunk and spreads to cover the entire body; it can involve the palms and soles. However, the rash of chickenpox typically becomes vesicular before forming erosions with crust. In addition, chickenpox occurs most frequently during childhood and does not cause conjunctivitis, abdominal pain, or petechiae.

**G - Borrelia burgdorferi** - Borrelia burgdorferi causes Lyme disease, a tick-borne disease endemic to the northeast and upper midwest parts of the United States. Stage I of Lyme disease can cause fever, fatigue, headache, myalgias, and erythema chronicum migrans, a circular, slowly-expanding red ring with central clearing that develops at the site of the tick bite. However, erythema chronicum migrans does not typically affect the palms and soles, and Lyme disease does not typically cause conjunctivitis, abdominal pain, or petechiae. In addition, this patient does not have other typical features of Lyme disease, including neck stiffness, arthralgias, and regional lymphadenopathy.

