### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Meconium ileus** - Meconium ileus is one of the first manifestations of cystic fibrosis seen in newborns, due to defective ATP-gated chloride channels. In response to impaired chloride secretion into the GI lumen, sodium and water secretion in the GI tract is decreased, resulting in hyperviscous mucous in the lumen and increasing the risk of ileus. This pathophysiology is also responsible for the increased chloride concentration of the skin, which can be measured via the pilocarpine-induced sweat test.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Duodenal atresia** - Duodenal atresia is a congenital malformation that manifests with delayed meconium passage, bilious vomiting, and the classic double bubble sign on x-ray. It is associated with Down syndrome, not cystic fibrosis.

**B - Congenital megacolon** - Congenital megacolon (Hirschsprung disease) is caused by a failure of the neural crest cells to migrate, which leads to aganglionic colon segments and failure to pass meconium. It is associated with Down syndrome, not cystic fibrosis.

**C - Cardiac defects** - Cardiac defects are associated with a number of syndromes, including fetal alcohol syndrome, trisomy 13, trisomy 18, and trisomy 21. However, cystic fibrosis is not associated with cardiac defects.

**E - Neural tube defects** - Neural tube defects describe several conditions characterized by incomplete neural tube closure (e.g., spina bifida, meningomyelocele, anencephaly). The most common cause is folate deficiency during pregnancy. Neural tube defects are not associated with cystic fibrosis.

**F - Pyloric stenosis** - Risk factors for pyloric stenosis include a positive family history, being male, smoking during pregnancy, macrolide exposure, premature birth, and bottle feeding. It is not caused by a point mutation and not associated with cystic fibrosis.

