### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Cutaneous malignant melanoma** - Malignant melanomas most commonly spread to lymph nodes, liver, lung, brain, and bone, but they are also known to metastasize to locations not typically affected by other metastatic malignancies (e.g., to the heart or the gallbladder). Melanoma is the most common cause of gallbladder metastasis in the United States. As in this patient, the metastasis is often diagnosed as an incidental finding, before the primary tumor is found.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Adenocarcinoma of the sigmoid colon** - Although adenocarcinoma of the sigmoid colon is associated with smoking (which certainly increases the risk for this and other types of cancer), it metastasizes to the liver, lungs, bone, and brain, not to the gallbladder.

**C - Recurrence of papillary thyroid carcinoma** - This patient has a history of papillary thyroid carcinoma, which makes a recurrence possible. However, papillary thyroid carcinoma most frequently metastasizes to the neck lymph nodes. Distant metastases are rare and typically involve the lungs and bones, not the gallbladder.

**D - Multiple endocrine neoplasia** - Multiple endocrine neoplasia is associated with medullary thyroid cancer but not papillary thyroid cancer. Additionally, a patient with MEN would also have accompanying features such as hypertension, constipation, and pruritic skin lesions. Lastly, patients with MEN do not have gallbladder metastasis.

**E - Squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus** - Although squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus is associated with smoking (which certainly increases the risk for this and other types of cancer), it metastasizes to local lymph nodes, the liver, and lungs, not to the gallbladder.

