### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Praziquantel** - Praziquantel is the treatment of choice for chronic schistosomiasis. Praziquantel is only effective after the parasitic worms have matured, so it should be administered after symptoms of acute illness have resolved (approx. 4–6 weeks after the initial infection). In acute schistosomiasis syndrome (Katayama fever), praziquantel should only be administered after corticosteroids because it can trigger an immune reaction to released schistosome antigens. If left untreated, genitourinary schistosomiasis may lead to bladder neck obstruction and hydronephrosis, infertility (due to migration to internal genitalia; more common in women), and squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Metronidazole** - Metronidazole is used to treat bacterial infections with anaerobes (e.g., Clostridioides difficile, Bacteroides spp.) and parasitic infections with certain protozoa (e.g., Entamoeba histolytica, Giardia lamblia, Trichomonas vaginalis). However, metronidazole is ineffective against schistosomiasis.

**C - Prednisolone** - Corticosteroids such as prednisolone are the initial treatment for acute schistosomiasis syndrome (Katayama fever). This patient's urine microscopy findings confirm the diagnosis of schistosomiasis. However, acute schistosomiasis syndrome typically develops 3–8 weeks after initial exposure and manifests with fever, fatigue, cough, myalgia, and/or angioedema, none of which is seen here.

**D - Ivermectin** - Ivermectin is an antihelminthic drug used against onchocerciasis, strongyloidiasis, and hookworm infections (i.e., ancylostomiasis, necatoriasis). It is not indicated against chronic schistosomiasis.

**E - Ciprofloxacin** - Ciprofloxacin is indicated in bacterial lower urinary tract infections, which typically manifest with dysuria and hematuria, both of which are seen here. However, ciprofloxacin does not have antihelminthic effects, so it is ineffective against Schistosoma haematobium.

