### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Oral tumors** - Mucosal neuromas, often involving the lips and tongue, are characteristic manifestations of MEN 2B. This autosomal-dominant syndrome is caused by a mutated RET proto-oncogene that almost always leads to the development of medullary thyroid cancer at a young age. Further common manifestations of MEN 2B include pheochromocytoma and intestinal ganglioneuromatosis. The next step in management in this patient is measurement of urine metanephrines to rule out pheochromocytoma, followed by thyroidectomy with cervical lymph node dissection. As opposed to MEN 2A, which is caused by a mutation in the same gene, MEN 2B is not associated with primary hyperparathyroidism.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Gastric ulcers** - Gastric ulcers secondary to a gastrinoma are a possible manifestation of MEN 1. This autosomal-dominant syndrome is caused by a mutated menin protein and can further present with primary hyperparathyroidism (∼ 90% of cases), carcinoid tumors, pituitary tumors, and other endocrine pancreatic tumors, none of which are seen in this patient. Furthermore, MEN 1 is not associated with medullary thyroid cancer or a marfanoid habitus, and gastrinomas are not a manifestation of MEN 2B.

**C - Recurrent hypoglycemia** - Recurrent hypoglycemia secondary to an insulinoma is a possible manifestation of MEN 1. This autosomal-dominant syndrome is caused by a mutated menin protein and can further present with primary hyperparathyroidism (∼ 90% of cases), carcinoid tumors, pituitary tumors, and other endocrine pancreatic tumors, none of which are seen in this patient. Furthermore, MEN 1 is not associated with medullary thyroid cancer or a marfanoid habitus, and insulinomas are not a manifestation of MEN 2B.

**D - Kidney stones** - Kidney stones due to primary hyperparathyroidism are a possible manifestation of MEN 2A. Virtually all patients with MEN 2A develop medullary thyroid cancer; however, this condition is not associated with the marfanoid habitus seen in this patient. Although MEN 2A and MEN 2B are caused by a mutation in the same proto-oncogene, the latter is not associated with primary hyperparathyroidism.

**E - Episodic hypotension** - Common causes of episodic hypotension include autonomic dysfunction, volume depletion, and certain medications (e.g, antidepressants, beta blockers). However, MEN 2B is not known to cause hypotensive events. In contrast, MEN 2B commonly manifests with pheochromocytoma, which is characterized by episodic hypertension, paroxysmal headaches, diaphoresis, heart palpitations, and pallor.

**F - Breast enlargement** - Breast enlargement (i.e., gynecomastia) due to a prolactinoma is a possible manifestation of MEN 1. This autosomal-dominant syndrome is caused by a mutated menin protein and can further present with primary hyperparathyroidism (∼ 90% of cases), endocrine pancreatic tumors, carcinoid tumors, and other pituitary tumors, none of which are present in this patient. Furthermore, MEN 1 is not associated with medullary thyroid cancer or a marfanoid habitus, and prolactinomas are not a manifestation of MEN 2B.

