### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Non-Hodgkin lymphoma** - Patients with Sjogren syndrome (SS) have an increased risk of developing non-Hodgkin lymphomas of the exocrine glands, particularly the parotid gland. The most important risk factor for lymphoma development in SS is persistent salivary gland enlargement. Although the pathophysiology of lymphoma development in SS is not entirely known, B-cell activation and chronic inflammation are thought to play a role. MALT lymphoma is the most common lymphoma in patients with SS, followed by diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Other common complications in patients with SS are related to xerostomia and include gastroesophageal reflux disease, atrophic oral candidiasis, and increased risk of dental caries. Patients with SS can develop a dry cough as a result of xerotrachea and xerobronchitis (the most likely cause in this patient with a normal chest CT) or interstitial lung disease. Patients with primary SS are often positive for anti-Ro and anti-La antibodies, both of which are specific types of ANA.

Image File: 885-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5db6eba0e1876.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis** - Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) is the most common cause of nephrotic syndrome in adults and can occur idiopathically or secondary to HIV infection, sickle cell disease, heroin use, severe obesity, and interferon therapy. The most common renal complications of primary SS are tubulointerstitial nephritis and type 1 renal tubular acidosis. Glomerular involvement in primary SS is rare and, when it does occur, typically manifests as membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis or membranous nephropathy, not FSGS.

**B - Lofgren syndrome** - Lofgren syndrome occurs in 5–10% of patients with sarcoidosis, which occurs more commonly in women and can manifest with features of pulmonary involvement (e.g., cough), keratoconjunctivitis sicca, xerostomia, and parotid enlargement. However, in patients with sarcoidosis, chest imaging would typically show hilar lymphadenopathy, which is the earliest manifestation of pulmonary involvement. Primary SS, which is more likely in this patient, is not associated with Lofgren syndrome.

Image File: 885-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dfa3cb4e09c8.jpg

**D - Retroperitoneal fibrosis** - Retroperitoneal fibrosis (RPF) is associated with IgG4-related disease, which can manifest with xerostomia, xerophthalmia, and parotid gland enlargement, which are seen here. A dry cough may also be seen in IgG4-related disease as a result of interstitial lung disease. However, serum IgG4 antibody titers would be well above the normal range (≥ 2 times the upper limit) in IgG4-related disease. RPF is not typically associated with primary SS, the diagnosis in this patient.

**E - Libman-Sacks endocarditis** - Libman-Sacks endocarditis (LSE) is associated with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), which typically occurs in women and can cause a dry cough (due to pleuritis or interstitial lung disease), fatigue, positive ANA titers, and, occasionally, features of secondary SS (keratoconjunctivitis sicca, xerostomia). However, negative anti-Smith and anti-dsDNA antibody titers indicate a different cause for increased ANA titers. Moreover, patients with SLE usually have a malar or discoid rash, photosensitivity, oral ulcers (rather than tongue fissures), arthralgia, and/or hematological abnormalities, none of which this patient has. Primary SS, which is seen here, has been reported to cause autoimmune myocarditis but is not associated with LSE.

Image File: 885-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dfa49d483e12.jpg

