### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Obtain upper endoscopy** - The initial steps in management of caustic ingestion include assessment of airway, breathing, and circulation as well as removal of contaminated clothes. Early endoscopy (within 12–24 hours) is important as it allows detailed assessment of the damage to the esophageal lining. The severity of that damage will guide further therapy, such as the need for nasogastric tube placement in case of oropharyngeal injury or, in severe esophageal burns, surgery.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Perform gastric lavage** - A tube that is passed blindly through the esophagus into the stomach can damage the already-injured esophageal lining. Furthermore, gastric lavage can induce vomiting or push some of the stomach contents back into the esophagus. In both cases, the esophagus would again be exposed to the caustic agent, potentially causing further damage. Therefore, gastric lavage is contraindicated for the treatment of caustic ingestion.

**C - Dilute the ingested agent** - Dilution should not be attempted as it increases the risk of vomiting. Vomiting would reintroduce the ingested caustic agent to the esophagus and cause damage to the already-injured esophageal mucosa. Neutralizing the caustic agent with the application of an acid is also absolutely contraindicated as this can lead to chemical reactions that would further damage the esophagus.

**D - Obtain barium upper gastrointestinal series** - A barium upper GI series is not part of the initial management of caustic ingestion. If there is a perforation, barium would leak into the mediastinum and potentially cause mediastinitis. If perforation is suspected, a water-soluble contrast agent should be used instead. Barium swallow may be useful for evaluating strictures or stenoses 2–3 weeks after the ingestion.

**E - Administer activated charcoal** - Charcoal is used to treat certain kinds of poisoning. The charcoal can bind the poison and prevent intestinal resorption. But in the case of caustic ingestion, intestinal resorption is not the main issue. Instead, the caustic agent can cause severe burns to the mucosal lining of the gastrointestinal tract, which would not be prevented through activated charcoal.

**F - Induce vomiting** - Inducing vomiting is contraindicated. The ingested caustic agent could cause further damage if it is regurgitated through the already-damaged esophagus!

