### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Aortic rupture** - Vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (vEDS) is an autosomal dominant connective tissue disorder that is caused by a pathogenic mutation in the COL3A1 gene, which leads to a defective type III procollagen. Patients with this rare and severe type of EDS have a limited life expectancy because of complications such as spontaneous rupture of arteries (e.g., of the aorta, due to dissection or aneurysm) or hollow organs (e.g., colonic rupture). Classical features of other types of EDS (e.g., hypermobile EDS or classical EDS) such as joint hypermobility and skin hyperextensibility are typically absent or less prominent in patients with vEDS. The diagnosis is confirmed with genetic testing.

Other common manifestations of vEDS include spontaneous pneumothorax, clubfoot, arteriovenous fistula, and gingival recession.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Mitral valve prolapse** - Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) is associated with several forms of EDS, as well as other genetic connective tissue disorders such as Marfan syndrome. While Marfan syndrome also manifests with joint hypermobility and, in some cases, cerebral hemorrhages at a young age, affected individuals typically have tall stature, long extremities (i.e., an increased arm span-to-height ratio), and arachnodactyly, while this patient is of normal stature. This patient has vascular EDS, which is only rarely is associated with mitral valve prolapse; he is at greater risk for another condition.

**B - Hemophilic arthropathy** - Hemophilic arthropathy is a chronic joint condition that commonly develops due to repeated hemarthrosis in patients with hemophilia, a genetic bleeding disorder that can also manifest with easy bruising and early-onset cerebral hemorrhage. However, patients with hemophilia typically present with spontaneous or delayed-onset bleeding in multiple locations (e.g., oral mucosa, muscular tissue). Translucent skin and facial abnormalities are not features of hemophilia. This patient has vascular EDS, which is not associated with recurrent hemarthrosis.

**C - Hyperglycemia** - Hyperglycemia is commonly seen in patients with Cushing syndrome, which manifests with thin, easily bruisable skin, delayed wound healing, and weight gain. However, Cushing syndrome is also associated with secondary hypertension, moon facies, stretch marks, and muscle weakness. This patient's facial features and family history of early-onset cerebral hemorrhage suggest vascular EDS, which is not associated with hyperglycemia.

**E - Conductive hearing loss** - Conductive hearing loss is a common complication of osteogenesis imperfecta (OI), an autosomal-dominant disease that can manifest with easy bruising. However, OI also manifests with short stature, brittle bones, and recurrent bone fractures, while this patient is of normal height and has neither brittle bones nor recurrent fractures. This patient's facial features and family history of early-onset cerebral hemorrhage suggest vascular EDS, which is not associated with hearing loss.

Image File: 888-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5eb41c88b569b.jpg

