### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Clarithromycin** - Clarithromycin, a macrolide, is the antibiotic of choice for rheumatic fever in patients with hypersensitivity to beta-lactam antibiotics, as seen in this patient. Other than antibiotics, treatment consists of bed rest and NSAIDs. Additionally, an echocardiogram should be performed to evaluate for mitral or aortic regurgitation.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Vancomycin** - Vancomycin may be administered to treat serious infections with gram-positive pathogens (e.g., MRSA). The patient's joint pain and swelling may be suggestive of septic arthritis, which is most commonly caused by Staphylococcus aureus. However, septic arthritis is usually monoarticular. Furthermore, the management of septic arthritis comprises arthrocentesis and culture, and empiric treatment with ceftriaxone and vancomycin.

**C - High-dose glucocorticoids** - Low-dose glucocorticoids (not high-dose) may be used for the management of pain and fever in acute rheumatic fever if NSAIDs fail. As this patient is only 12 years old and is febrile, ibuprofen or naproxen should be first administered (aspirin is contraindicated due to risk of Reye syndrome) instead.

**D - Amoxicillin** - Amoxicillin is a good alternative to penicillin V (the drug of choice) for acute rheumatic fever in children because the taste in oral suspension is better tolerated. However, amoxicillin is contraindicated in this case because the patient has a history of a hypersensitivity reaction to dicloxacillin, which belongs to the same class of drugs (penicillins).

**E - Doxycycline** - Doxycycline, a tetracycline, is not indicated in the treatment for rheumatic fever but for Lyme disease in adults. Although polyarthritis and cardiac involvement could be suggestive of Lyme disease, this diagnosis is unlikely because the patient has no history of erythema migrans, tick bite, or outdoor stay in a Lyme-endemic region.

**F - Methotrexate** - Methotrexate, an antimetabolite, may be administered to treat rheumatologic diseases, such as juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), which is consistent with this patient's polyarthritis. However, she does not have any extra-articular manifestations (e.g., uveitis, rashes, nail changes, lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly), making JIA an unlikely diagnosis.

**G - Ciprofloxacin** - Ciprofloxacin, a fluoroquinolone, is not typically used in the treatment of rheumatic fever, which is the most likely diagnosis in this patient. More importantly, fluoroquinolones are contraindicated in children because they may damage developing cartilage and bones.

