### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Inadequate hypothalamic response** - Classic (nonexertional) heatstroke is a life-threatening condition that occurs when the body's hypothalamic thermoregulatory response is inadequate to maintain a normal temperature. The normal physiologic response to increased body temperature is hypothalamus-mediated peripheral vasodilation (to expose blood to the cooler air) and sweating (to dissipate heat into the environment). In elderly individuals, these control mechanisms are impaired because of reduced vasodilation and surface area for conductive heat loss. Accordingly, the hypothalamus is less able to adequately regulate temperature in this population, thereby increasing the risk for heatstroke.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Transient ischemic attack** - Although uncommon, a TIA could lead to a sudden loss of consciousness. This patient's older age and history of diabetes do put him at increased risk for a TIA or stroke. However, he has no focal neurological symptoms such as loss of vision, aphasia, hemiparesis, or paresthesias, which would be expected. The combination of severe hyperthermia, anhidrosis, and altered mental status make another diagnosis more likely.

**C - Accumulation of ammonia due to liver dysfunction** - Accumulation of ammonia due to liver dysfunction can cause hepatic encephalopathy, which would also present with altered mental status. Although this patient has a recent history of treated hepatitis A, a three-week delay between viral illness and liver failure would not occur. This patient additionally has no signs of liver disease (e.g., jaundice, abdominal pain, spider telangiectasias, etc.), making hepatic encephalopathy unlikely.

**D - Metabolic acidosis with ketosis** - Metabolic acidosis with ketosis is the characteristic state of diabetic ketoacidosis, a serious complication of diabetes mellitus. Although more common in children, DKA can occur at any age, including the elderly. Typical findings include rapid onset of altered mental status and hyperventilation, both seen in this patient. However, DKA is also characterized by severe hyperglycemia (often > 600 mg/dL), polyuria, polydipsia, and abdominal pain, which are absent here. Additionally, DKA would not explain this patient's very high fever.

**E - Gram-negative bacilli in bloodstream** - Gram-negative bacilli in the bloodstream is a potential cause of sepsis, a condition that may cause tachycardia, fever, and altered mental status, all of which are seen in this patient. However, this patient has no underlying signs of infection (e.g., costovertebral angle tenderness, cough, open wound, abdominal pain, etc.) and has a normal blood pressure (sepsis usually causes ↓ BP).

**F - Mutation in the ryanodine receptor type 1** - A mutation in the ryanodine receptor type 1 predisposes patients to malignant hyperthermia, a condition that usually occurs following administration of general inhaled anesthetics. This condition can also lead to very high fevers, delirium, tachycardia, and tachypnea, as seen in this patient. However, malignant hyperthermia also causes muscle spasticity and would rarely occur in the absence of general anesthetic inhalation.

**G - Elevation of serum thyroxine levels** - Elevation of serum thyroxine levels can be seen in thyroid storm due to acute exacerbation of hyperthyroidism. Thyroid storm can cause many of the symptoms observed in this patient, including high fever, tachycardia, and delirium. However, this patient has hypothyroidism (not hyperthyroid) that is being managed with levothyroxine. Although an overdose of L-thyroxine may lead to symptoms similar to those in this patient, including altered mental status, elevated temperature, and tachycardia, the onset would be less acute and preceded by other signs of hyperthyroidism such as nervousness, tremor, loose stools, or insomnia. Additionally, the blood pressure would be higher and the temperature would most likely only be mildly elevated.

**H - Central dopamine receptor blockade** - A central dopamine receptor blockade may be seen in patients with neuroleptic malignant syndrome, a condition that causes progressively worsening delirium, high fevers, and muscle rigidity over 1–3 days in the setting of antipsychotic medication use. Though this patient clearly has altered mental status and severe hyperthermia, he does not have muscle rigidity nor does he take antipsychotic medications.

