### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - A** - A HCO3- concentration of 19 mEq/L with a high anion gap (18 mEq/L) indicates a high anion gap metabolic acidosis (HAGMA). Using the Winter formula, the expected PaCO2 for a HCO3- concentration of 19 mEq/L is 34.5–38.5 mm Hg. This set of values has a PaCO2 of 30 mm Hg (lower than predicted), which indicates the presence of a concurrent respiratory alkalosis. As a result of this mixed acid-base disorder, the pH is normal. In the early phase of aspirin toxicity, patients develop a respiratory alkalosis due to direct stimulation of the respiratory center in the medulla. In the late phase of aspirin toxicity, which occurs several hours after ingestion, patients develop a HAGMA due to the accumulation of organic ketoacids, lactic acid, and salicylic acid. Salicylic acid uncouples oxidative phosphorylation in the mitochondria, which increases the conversion of acetyl-CoA to ketoacids and the conversion of pyruvate to lactate. Salicylic acid also directly contribute to metabolic acidosis (albeit to a lesser extent).

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - B** - Alkalemia with a high PaCO2 (48 mm Hg) indicates a metabolic alkalosis. Metabolic alkalosis can occur in patients with aspirin toxicity as a result of severe vomiting. However, this patient has not vomited following aspirin ingestion.

**C - C** - This set of arterial blood gas findings is normal. This patient, who has manifestations of the late phase of aspirin toxicity, is unlikely to have normal arterial blood gas findings.

**D - D** - Alkalemia with low PaCO2 (31 mm Hg), normal bicarbonate (26 mEq/L), and a normal anion gap (11 mEq/L) indicates a noncompensated respiratory alkalosis. Respiratory alkalosis develops in the early phase of salicylate toxicity. However, several hours after salicylate ingestion, patients also develop a high anion gap metabolic acidosis that results in a mixed acid-base disorder.

**E - E** - A normal pH (7.36) with high PaCO2 (50 mm Hg), normal bicarbonate (27 mEq/L), and a normal anion gap (10 mEq/L) indicates a noncompensated respiratory acidosis. This patient, who is hyperventilating, is unlikely to have a respiratory acidosis.

**F - F** - Acidemia with high PaCO2 (50 mm Hg), low bicarbonate (20 mEq/L), and a high anion gap (17 mEq/L) indicates a respiratory acidosis with an additional high anion gap metabolic acidosis (HAGMA). Patients with salicylate poisoning usually develop a HAGMA due to the accumulation of lactic acid, organic ketoacids, and salicylate. Occasionally, respiratory acidosis can occur with severe salicylate toxicity as a result of CNS depression and hypoventilation. However, this patient, who is hyperventilating, is unlikely to have a respiratory acidosis.

**G - G** - A normal pH of 7.44 with high PaCO2 (47 mm Hg), high bicarbonate (31 mEq/L), and a normal anion gap (6 mEq/L) indicates a combination of metabolic alkalosis and respiratory acidosis. Another mixed acid-base disorder should be suspected in patients with salicylate overdose.

