### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Elevated blood urea nitrogen concentration** - This patient presents with symptoms of orthostatic syncope caused by hypovolemia (signs of dehydration), which was possibly worsened by a longer period of inactivity (watching TV) and her diuretic medication (hydrochlorothiazide). Orthostatic syncope due to hypovolemia can be confirmed by elevated BUN concentrations and an elevated BUN/creatinine ratio, which are caused by renal hypoperfusion.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Elevated serum concentration of cardiac enzymes** - Elevated cardiac enzymes are a diagnostic feature of MI, which can manifest atypically with little to no chest pain, and predominantly autonomic symptoms in elderly women. Given this patient's history of CAD, further workup to exclude this diagnosis should be performed. However, since syncope is the only presenting symptom and this patient also shows signs of dehydration, hypovolemia is the more likely cause, which is not associated with elevated cardiac enzymes.

**B - Left ventricular hypertrophy** - LV hypertrophy in a patient with a history of syncope indicates cardiovascular syncope due to LV failure (forward failure) with subsequent cerebral hypoperfusion as the underlying cause. This patient's CAD and A-fib significantly increase her risk for heart failure. Additionally, undiagnosed aortic stenosis is another common cause of LV hypertrophy in elderly patient. However, she does not have other signs of LV dysfunction (e.g., dyspnea, bibasilar crackles) nor auscultation findings of aortic stenosis (a harsh crescendo-decrescendo, late systolic ejection murmur that radiates to the carotids), making LV hypertrophy unlikely.

**C - Increased sensitivity to carotid artery compression** - An increased sensitivity to carotid artery compression can cause syncope in individuals with carotid sinus syndrome. The diagnosis should be considered in this patient since it is commonly associated with CAD, is often asymptomatic except for sudden syncope, and presents with hypotension on examination. However, carotid sinus syndrome is associated with bradycardia. Also, this patient shows signs of dehydration, making hypovolemia the more likely cause of her symptoms.

**D - Absent P waves on ECG** - Absent P waves on ECG are a characteristic feature of atrial fibrillation, which can cause arrhythmogenic syncope. While affected individuals are usually asymptomatic, A-fib cannot be conclusively ruled out as the cause of syncope. However, considering this patient's blood pressure, reduced skin turgor, and dry tongue, the more likely cause is hypovolemia.

Image File: 898-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d93bb901b.jpg

**E - Elevated serum D-dimer levels** - Elevated serum D-dimer levels in a patient with a history of syncope suggest pulmonary embolism as the underlying cause. This patient is elderly, possibly less mobile, and therefore likely to be at increased risk of deep vein thrombosis. However, since she is taking anticoagulants and shows no further signs of PE (e.g., dyspnea, chest pain), this diagnosis is unlikely.

**G - Hypodense lesions on CT scan of the head** - Hypodense lesions seen on CT scan of the head can indicate an ischemic stroke that occurred ∼12–24 hours before. While this patient is generally at increased risk of an ischemic stroke due to her atherosclerosis and A-fib, she is taking anticoagulants that make an ischemic event less likely. Loss of consciousness is also often a sign of a severe stroke. However, she lacks other typical features of stroke (e.g., paralysis, sensory loss, vision impairment), making this diagnosis unlikely.

**H - Elevated serum creatine kinase concentration** - An elevated serum creatine kinase concentration in a patient with a loss of consciousness indicates a tonic-clonic seizure. This patient's signs of dehydration and no features of a recent seizure (e.g., lateral tongue bite, urinary incontinence) or postictal symptoms (e.g., confusion, amnesia, muscle pain), point to hypovolemia as the more likely cause.

