### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Behcet disease** - Behcet disease is a rare disease that most typically affects young adults 20–40 years of age. It is most common in patients from the Mediterranean region to eastern Asia, including Syria. The diagnosis is made based on clinical findings as there are no pathognomonic laboratory tests. Given that oral ulcers are common while Behcet disease is relatively rare, diagnosis typically requires the additional presence of more specific findings, including recurrent genital ulcers, ocular manifestations (e.g., uveitis), or skin manifestations like erythema nodosum and pathergy. The presence of nonspecific symptoms, such as arthralgia, malaise, and fever may also aid in diagnosis.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Chancroid** - Chancroid can also present with painful genital ulcers but would usually heal within a few weeks and does not explain the prominent oral ulcers in this patient. Additionally, painful inguinal lymphadenopathy would likely be present.

**B - Human immunodeficiency virus infection** - Acute HIV infection can present with arthralgia, malaise, fever, and recurrent oral ulcers and should be considered in this young, sexually active patient who is not using condoms. However, symptoms would typically only last for days to weeks, with acute symptoms often self-resolving. Genital ulcers in patients with acute HIV infection may represent a coinfection with a different STI (e.g., herpes or syphilis).

**C - Aphthous stomatitis** - Aphthous stomatitis also presents with recurrent oral ulcers and may be triggered by infections associated with fevers and malaise, as in this patient. However, it does not explain this patient's genital ulcers.

**D - Herpes simplex virus infection** - Herpes simplex virus infections can also cause recurrent oral and genital ulcers and merit consideration in this sexually active patient. HSV-1 more typically causes oral ulcers while HSV-2 generally causes genital ulcers. The initial infection may present with fever and malaise, but recurring outbreaks generally do not exhibit such signs nor joint pain.

**E - Ankylosing spondylitis** - Ankylosing spondylitis can also present with arthralgia, malaise, and fever in young adults. Additional findings include ocular manifestations (typically acute, unilateral anterior uveitis). However, it more typically presents with back and neck pain and limited mobility. Also, ankylosing spondylitis is not associated with oral or genital ulcers.

**G - Systemic lupus erythematosus** - Although much more common in women, SLE may also present in men with oral ulcers, arthralgia, malaise, and fever. However, genital ulcers would not be expected, and this patient is missing expected skin manifestations, including the common malar rash.

