### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Administer lorazepam** - Lorazepam is a benzodiazepine with rapid onset that can be used for the management of an acute panic attack (e.g., in the context of acute procedural anxiety), as seen here. Although panic attacks often self resolve after a few minutes, as was the case in this patient's prior episode, pharmacotherapy should be considered in this situation, as her symptoms are moderate to severe and persistent. Because this patient's panic attacks are most likely due to a specific phobia (i.e., claustrophobia) it is appropriate to consider administering a benzodiazepine prior to future procedures.

While benzodiazepines are useful for the short-term management of panic attacks, they should not be used for long-term management because of the high potential for addiction and development of tolerance. For long-term management, cognitive behavioral therapy is the first-line treatment, followed by selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors if pharmacotherapy is necessary.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increase dose of fluoxetine** - Fluoxetine is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), which can be used for the long-term treatment of anxiety disorders, including specific phobias (e.g., claustrophobia) not controlled by cognitive behavioral therapy. However, SSRIs often take several weeks before they achieve their full efficacy and are not appropriate for managing an acute panic attack.

**C - Begin cognitive behavioral therapy** - Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is the first-line treatment for long-term management of anxiety disorders, including specific phobias such as claustrophobia. However, CBT is not appropriate in the acute setting.

**D - Administer haloperidol** - Haloperidol is indicated for the management of acute or severe aggression and agitation. While these symptoms can occur in the setting of underlying psychiatric disorders, including major depressive disorder (MDD), this patient does not demonstrate acute or severe aggressive and agitated behavior, and her MDD is well controlled. Haloperidol is not indicated for the treatment of acute panic attacks or specific phobias.

**E - Administer propranolol** - Propranolol can be used in the management of performance-only social anxiety disorder (SAD), which can manifest with symptoms of anxiety (e.g., palpitations, diaphoresis), similar to what is seen in this patient. However, the symptoms in performance-only SAD are restricted to public speaking and/or performing in front of crowds. Although propranolol has been considered for the management of acute procedural anxiety, the clinical experience with beta blockers is limited compared to other pharmacotherapies.

**F - Begin biofeedback therapy** - Biofeedback therapy can be considered for the long-term treatment of anxiety disorders. However, biofeedback therapy is not appropriate in the acute setting.

