### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Perform plasmapheresis** - In patients with Goodpasture syndrome, emergent plasmapheresis is used to eliminate antibodies that are directed at the basement membrane of alveoli and glomeruli (anti-GBM). Immunosuppressive treatment with prednisone and cyclophosphamide, as seen here, is commonly performed in combination with plasmapheresis to reduce new antibody formation. Without proper treatment, Goodpasture syndrome rapidly progresses to end-stage renal disease. However, if therapy is initiated early, full recovery of renal function may be reached in > 50% of cases.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer inhalative fluticasone** - Synthetic glucocorticoids like fluticasone may be used in the treatment of eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Churg-Strauss syndrome), which can also cause pulmonary-renal syndrome. However, laboratory findings would characteristically include positive pANCA and peripheral eosinophilia, not anti-GBM antibodies.

**B - Administer moxifloxacin** - Moxifloxacin is commonly used to treat patients with community-acquired pneumonia. This patient has some features that are typical of pneumonia, including crackles on auscultation of the chest, cough, and (in some severe cases) hemoptysis. However, other important symptoms, such as fever and leukocytosis are absent. Moreover, pulmonary infection would not explain nephritic sediment and positive screening for anti-GBM.

**C - Perform hemodialysis** - Hemodialysis is performed when the kidney transiently or persistently loses its function to remove toxins, metabolites, and water from the body. Because Goodpasture syndrome often leads to end-stage renal disease, this patient will likely require hemodialysis in the future. However, it is not currently indicated.

**D - Administer immune globulins** - Immune globulins are used for the treatment of a variety of conditions, including certain autoimmune diseases, immunodeficiencies, and infections. Although Goodpasture syndrome is an autoimmune disease that involves the lungs and kidneys, immune globulins are not part of the routine treatment.

**E - Administer rituximab** - Rituximab may also be used in patients with Goodpasture syndrome if there is an intolerance to cyclophosphamide, which this patient just received. Another step is needed at this time. Rituximab is also used in the treatment of other conditions, including cANCA-associated vasculitis (granulomatosis with polyangiitis) that can also lead to pulmonary-renal syndrome as seen in this patient. However, individuals with cANCA-associated vasculitis often present with a history of chronic sinusitis, nasal ulcers, and perforation of the nasal septum, which is not the case here.

**G - Administer enalapril** - Enalapril is an ACE inhibitor that is commonly used in the treatment of hypertension. Renal involvement related to Goodpasture syndrome is the most likely underlying cause of this patient's hypertension. ACE inhibitors have a nephroprotective effect, making them especially useful for patients with renal disease. Although treatment with enalapril could become necessary at some point, it is not the best next step in management at this time.

