### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Vitamin C** - Vitamin C deficiency (scurvy) results in impaired collagen synthesis and easily-damaged connective tissue, which manifests with mucosal bleeding, coiled hairs (corkscrew hairs), perifollicular hemorrhages, anemia (fatigue, pallor), and easy bruising (e.g., multiple ecchymoses), as seen in this patient. His joint pain may be caused by hemarthroses from vitamin C deficiency or may be due to his underlying osteoarthritis. Populations at increased risk for developing nutritional deficiencies include individuals with substance use disorders, the elderly, and patients who are chronically ill, such as this man with non-small cell lung carcinoma who may have poor intake due to loss of appetite and chemotherapy-induced nausea. The treatment for scurvy is vitamin C supplementation.

Image File: 901-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60d300c3ac093.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Vitamin A** - Vitamin A deficiency is associated with several ocular and dermatologic manifestations, including night blindness, xerophthalmia, keratomalacia, Bitot spots, and xerosis, none of which are seen in this patient. In addition, vitamin A deficiency does not cause mucosal bleeding, coiled hairs, perifollicular hemorrhages, or ecchymoses.

**C - Vitamin D** - Vitamin D deficiency can cause osteomalacia and symptoms of hypocalcemia (e.g., paresthesias, muscle spasms). It does not cause anemia (fatigue, pallor), mucosal bleeding, coiled hairs, perifollicular hemorrhages, or ecchymoses.

**D - Vitamin B12** - Vitamin B12 deficiency can cause peripheral neuropathy (decreased sensation in the lower extremities) as well as fatigue and pallor (due to macrocytic, megaloblastic anemia). However, this patient's peripheral neuropathy is likely caused by cisplatin-based chemotherapy. Other symptoms of vitamin B12 deficiency include ataxia and spasticity (due to subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord) and manifestations of neuropsychiatric diseases such as dementia and depression, none of which are seen in this patient. Moreover, vitamin B12 deficiency does not cause mucosal bleeding, coiled hairs, perifollicular hemorrhages, or ecchymoses.

**E - Vitamin B6** - Vitamin B6 deficiency can cause peripheral neuropathy (decreased sensation in the lower extremities) as well as fatigue and pallor (due to sideroblastic anemia). However, this patient's peripheral neuropathy is likely caused by cisplatin-based chemotherapy. Other symptoms of vitamin B6 deficiency include cheilitis, glossitis, and stomatitis, none of which are seen in this patient. Moreover, vitamin B6 deficiency does not cause mucosal bleeding, coiled hairs, perifollicular hemorrhages, or ecchymoses.

**F - Vitamin K** - Vitamin K is a cofactor for factors II (prothrombin), VII, IX, and X of the coagulation cascade; vitamin K deficiency causes coagulopathy that could manifest with ecchymoses, mucosal bleeding, and pallor. However, vitamin K deficiency does not cause coiled hairs. In addition, perifollicular hemorrhages are highly specific for another nutritional deficiency.

