### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Reactive arthritis** - Asymmetric arthritis with a migratory character (left ankle → right knee), tendinopathy, and conjunctivitis are typical manifestations of reactive arthritis. This patient's pain on urination is most likely a symptom of the preceding urinary tract infection, as reactive arthritis is a postinfectious autoimmune disorder. The disorder typically affects sexually active young men, as they have a higher risk of acquiring STDs, e.g., chlamydial genitourinary infections. The arthrocentesis findings are also in line with this diagnosis, as they tend to show increased WBCs and neutrophils but no organisms.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Disseminated gonococcal infection** - Disseminated gonococcal infection can manifest in two ways: either with a triad of polyarthritis, tenosynovitis, and dermatitis, or as purulent arthritis (without affection of skin and tendons). This patient's presentation is not consistent with either form. He does have arthritis (but only in a single joint) and tenosynovitis, but lacks cutaneous manifestations. His arthrocentesis did show a high neutrophil count, but the leukocyte count is too low and there were no gonococci on the Gram stain (note that the Gram stain is only positive in < 25% of cases). Even though this does not rule out gonococcal infection, disseminated (!) gonococcal infection usually does not cause urethritis and conjunctivitis (only 25% of patients with gonococcal infection present with genitourinary manifestations).

Image File: 902-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d916d5cdd.jpg

**B - Septic arthritis** - Septic arthritis would also present with limited range of motion and the typical combination of erythema, warmth, and swelling. In a patient with no risk factors (e.g., IV drug use), however, it is not very likely. This patient also presents with extra-articular symptoms that make a generalized disease more likely. Furthermore, the leukocyte count (26,000/mm3) is far lower than expected (> 50,000/mm3) and the absence of organisms on Gram stain rules out the most common bacterial causes of septic arthritis.

**C - Rheumatoid arthritis** - Rheumatoid arthritis typically affects the small joints of the hands and fingers and also causes morning stiffness, none of which is present in this patient. In the case of juvenile idiopathic arthritis, fever and different extra-articular manifestations would be expected, such as uveitis, rashes, or nail changes. Furthermore, urethritis is not commonly seen in rheumatoid arthritis.

Image File: 902-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_51dbf4bdbb9a1.jpg

**D - Lyme arthritis** - Lyme arthritis would cause the same local symptoms seen in this patient. Furthermore, the expected arthrocentesis findings in Lyme arthritis are consistent with this case: specifically, > 50% neutrophils, increased WBCs (> 25,000), and no organisms on Gram stain. Nevertheless, the patient is missing all the typical findings of Lyme disease, including history of a tick bite, erythema chronicum migrans, and flu-like symptoms. Even if stage I went unnoticed and the patient is now in stage II of Lyme disease (with migratory arthralgia), it would not explain his tendinopathy, conjunctivitis, or pain on urination.

Image File: 902-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_56669b546be81.jpg

**F - Syphilitic arthritis** - The patient has no history of a chancre or regional lymphadenopathy (primary syphilis). Moreover, he does not have a polymorphic rash, constitutional symptoms (e.g., generalized lymphadenopathy, fever), or condylomata lata (secondary syphilis).

Image File: 902-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59240a099b9b3.jpg

