### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Assisted respiration and urine alkalinization** - Intoxicated patients require immediate assessment airway, breathing, and circulation (i.e., their “ABCs”) to prevent significant morbidity and mortality. This patient's depressed GCS of 8 and RR of 10 are indications for respiratory assistance (e.g., oropharyngeal airway, laryngeal mask, or endotracheal intubation). Urine alkalization with intravenous sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3), which increases renal elimination of barbiturates, is indicated for emergent management of barbiturate intoxication. Patients with barbiturate intoxication should also receive further supportive measures, including fluid resuscitation to maintain hemodynamic stability, immediate ECG followed by telemetry to monitor for arrhythmias, and arterial blood gas analysis to assess for metabolic acidosis and increased serum lactic acid. There is no specific antidote for barbiturate overdose!

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Activated charcoal and flumazenil** - Activated charcoal may be used to prevent gastrointestinal absorption of medications (e.g., acetaminophen, aspirin, tricyclic antidepressants, and some barbiturates). However, it should be administered within two hours of ingestion, and this patient's ingestion time is unknown. Furthermore, there is debate over whether it is effective even when administered immediately after ingestion of medicine. Moreover, flumazenil is used in the treatment of overdose with benzodiazepines, not barbiturates.

**B - Intravenous fluids and naloxone** - Intravenous fluid resuscitation is indicated for intoxicated patients with hypotension to prevent cardiovascular collapse. However, naloxone is indicated for patients with suspected opioid overdose, not barbiturate poisoning. While opioid poisoning could explain this patient altered consciousness, lethargy, respiratory depression, and hypotension, the absence of other clinical features of opioid poisoning (e.g., miosis) and this patient's history of barbiturate use make this diagnosis less likely.

**D - Endotracheal intubation and N-acetylcysteine** - This patient's depressed GCS of 8 and RR of 10 are indications for respiratory assistance (e.g., oropharyngeal airway, laryngeal mask, or endotracheal intubation). However, N-acetylcysteine is indicated for acetaminophen overdose, which either has no symptoms or manifests with mild symptoms (i.e., nausea, vomiting, pallor, lethargy) during the first 24 hours that can progress to acute liver failure within days to weeks. It is not an effective treatment for barbiturate overdose.

**E - Cardiac monitoring and physostigmine** - This patient's barbiturate poisoning is an indication for continuous cardiac monitoring for arrhythmias, which may require emergent medical management to prevent death, starting with an ECG and followed by telemetry. However, this patient's altered mental status and respiratory suppression should be addressed first with another intervention. Moreover, physostigmine is used in the treatment of anticholinergic syndrome; the drug is not indicated for barbiturate overdose.

