### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Basophilic stippling of erythrocytes** - Basophilic stippling of erythrocytes is indicative of chronic lead poisoning, which is an occupational hazard for battery factory workers. Lead inhibits RNA degeneration, causing residual RNA to remain visible as blue stipples in RBCs. Chronic lead poisoning presents with peripheral neuropathy, abdominal colic, anemia, and Burton's line, all of which are present in this patient. Treatment of symptomatic adults with blood lead levels (BLL) ≥ 50 μg/dl consists of chelation therapy. Exposure to lead should also be reduced.

Image File: 905-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5911c7d5ea99d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Beta‑2 microglobulin in urine** - Beta-2 microglobulin in urine indicates kidney damage as the result of, for example, chronic cadmium poisoning. Although this patient's occupation puts him at risk of chronic cadmium toxicity, he does not have any clinical features of cadmium exposure such as anosmia, osteoporosis/osteomalacia, yellowing of teeth, and kidney and/or lung disease (e.g., tubulointerstitial nephritis or emphysema).

**C - White bands across the nails** - White bands across the nails, also known as Mees lines, are indicative of arsenic poisoning. Although this patient's occupation puts him at risk of chronic arsenic toxicity, he does not have typical clinical features such as symmetrical, distal, predominantly sensory polyneuropathy, and skin changes (e.g., hyperkeratosis). Acute poisoning would cause abdominal pain as seen in this patient, but this would occur within hours of exposure with accompanying nausea, vomiting, garlic-like breath odor, and oral and nasal ulcerations.

**D - Increased total iron binding capacity** - Increased TIBC indicates iron deficiency anemia. Although this patient shows signs of anemia (fatigue, conjunctival pallor), his other symptoms, including radial nerve palsy and intestinal colic, indicate another underlying cause.

**E - High anion gap metabolic acidosis** - High anion gap metabolic acidosis occurs secondary to lactic acid production in cyanide poisoning, which could be responsible for some of this patient's symptoms, i.e. fatigue and abdominal pain. It does not, however, account for his anemia and peripheral neuropathy. Instead, CNS symptoms (confusion, headache, agitation), respiratory symptoms (dyspnea, chest pain), and hemorrhagic symptoms (bright red bleeding of mucous membranes) would be expected. Furthermore, symptoms typically manifest within 15–60 minutes after oral ingestion or a few seconds after inhalation.

**F - Septal thickening on chest x-ray** - Interlobular septal thickening on chest x-ray is indicative of pulmonary interstitial fibrosis that can occur secondary to chronic mercury poisoning, an occupational hazard for battery factory workers. Although chronic mercury exposure can cause neuropathy and bluish‑violet discoloration of the gums as seen in this patient, it also causes glomerulonephritis, erethism, and intention tremor. It does not cause intestinal colic or anemia.

