### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Arsenic poisoning** - This patient most likely suffers from chronic arsenic poisoning, which presents with his symptoms of a distal sensorimotor polyneuropathy, white bands across the nails (known as Mee's lines), and hyperkeratosis. Workers in battery factories have an increased risk of being exposed to arsine, a highly toxic gaseous form of arsenic with a distinct garlic-like odor. Elevated arsenic levels in the urine confirm the diagnosis. Treatment consists of chelating agents dimercaprol or succimer (in children).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Lead poisoning** - Chronic lead poisoning is an occupational hazard for battery factory workers and presents with polyneuropathy as seen in this patient. However, lead poisoning does not cause hyperkeratosis and lead-induced polyneuropathy is mainly a motor neuropathy. Furthermore, sensory symptoms (e.g., paresthesias) are rare. Other features suggestive of lead poisoning such as intestinal colic, anemia, radial nerve palsy, and Burton's line (a blackish‑blue line along the margins of the gums) are also absent in this patient.

**B - Alcoholic polyneuropathy** - This patient's bilateral distal numbness and weakness along with the history of excessive alcohol use are consistent with alcoholic polyneuropathy, which may be seen in up to 10% of patients with alcohol use disorder. However, this condition explains neither the transverse white lines on nails and nor the palmoplantar hyperkeratosis seen here.

**D - Cadmium toxicity** - Although this patient's occupation puts him at risk of chronic cadmium toxicity, this diagnosis is unlikely because he does not present with typical features such as anosmia, yellowing of teeth, and kidney or lung disease (e.g., tubulointerstitial nephritis or emphysema).

**E - Mercury toxicity** - Chronic mercury poisoning is an occupational hazard for battery factory workers and presents with polyneuropathy as seen in this patient. However, it does not cause hyperkeratosis or white transverse lines across the nails. Mercury toxicity usually causes intention tremor, erethism, and bluish‑violet discoloration of the gums, which are features this patient does not have.

