### ** Correct Answer: **

**G - Zinc** - Zinc deficiency can cause a constellation of clinical findings including immune dysfunction, impaired wound healing, hypogonadism, diarrhea, dermatitis, alopecia, abnormal sense of taste (dysgeusia), and abnormal sense of smell (dysosmia). Etiologies include poor dietary intake, impaired absorption (as a result of Crohn disease in this case), congenital conditions (e.g., acrodermatitis enteropathica), and liver or renal disease. Because zinc is mainly absorbed in the jejunum, this patient's Crohn disease and numerous small bowel resections likely substantially impede physiologic zinc absorption and predispose her to zinc deficiency.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Retinoic acid** - Retinoic acid (vitamin A) deficiency, can cause dry, scaly skin (i.e., xerosis cutis), but not the bullous, erythematous perioral plaques seen in this patient. An altered sense of taste and alopecia would also not be expected in vitamin A deficiency. Typical features of vitamin A deficiency include night blindness, xerophthalmia, and corneal degeneration, none of which are seen here.

**B - Ascorbic acid** - Ascorbic acid (vitamin C) deficiency, also known as scurvy, can result in dermatitis, but the most common symptoms are gingivitis, mucosal bleeding, curly body hair, arthralgia, and follicular hyperkeratosis, none of which are seen in this patient. An altered sense of taste and alopecia, moreover, are not typical features of vitamin C deficiency.

**C - Niacin** - Niacin deficiency, also known as pellagra, may cause dermatitis. These lesions typically take the form of a symmetric rash with hyperpigmented lesions on sun-exposed areas, however, rather than the bullous, erythematous perioral plaques seen in this patient. Other findings in pellagra include glossitis, dementia, and diarrhea, none of which are seen here. An altered sense of taste and alopecia are not typical features of niacin deficiency.

**D - Cobalamin** - Cobalamin is mostly absorbed in the terminal ileum. Inflammation in this area leads to impaired absorption, as is common in Crohn disease, which increases the risk of cobalamin (vitamin B12) deficiency. This condition can manifest with dry skin and altered taste sensation. However, other features of cobalamin deficiency would also be expected, e.g., fatigue, peripheral neuropathy, symmetric paresthesias, numbness, and gait abnormalities. Moreover, cobalamin deficiency would not explain this patient's erythematous perioral plaques.

**E - Selenium** - Selenium deficiency is a very rare nutritional deficiency that occurs most often in populations dependent on selenium-depleted soil for agriculture. Known manifestations of selenium deficiency include hypothyroidism (as thyroid hormone production is dependent on selenium) and myocardial necrosis leading to heart failure (for reasons that remain unclear). This patient's symptoms are not consistent with selenium deficiency.

**F - Iron** - Iron deficiency may also cause hair loss, which is seen in this patient. Furthermore, because iron is normally absorbed in the duodenum, Crohn disease is a risk factor for this type of deficiency. Iron deficiency most commonly manifests with easy fatigability, shortness of breath, conjunctival pallor, and weakness (all attributable to iron deficiency anemia), as well as koilonychia and pica. This patient lacks these other cardinal findings. Moreover, iron deficiency would not explain this patient's dysgeusia and dermatitis.

