### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Intravenous administration of 0.9% saline** - Intravenous administration of 0.9% saline, an isotonic fluid, would increase this patient's extracellular fluid volume (but have minimal effect on lowering the serum sodium concentration because it does not provide free water). This patient's abnormal vital signs, including tachycardia and hypotension, should raise concern for hypovolemic shock. Due to the risk of complications from severe volume depletion (e.g., coronary and cerebral ischemia), the most appropriate initial step in management is effective volume repletion; correction of the excess sodium with free water can wait until after initiation of this therapy.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Intravenous administration of free water** - Intravenous administration of free water, a hypotonic fluid with an osmolality of zero, would lead to rapid lowering of the serum sodium concentration but would not increase the patient's extracellular fluid volume sufficiently to treat his hypovolemia. Rapid correction of hypernatremia carries a risk of causing cerebral edema. Additionally, intravenous infusion of free water can cause hemolysis (due to the large difference in tonicity between free water and red blood cells).

**B - Intravenous administration of 5% dextrose in 0.45% saline** - Intravenous administration of 5% dextrose in 0.45% saline, a hypertonic fluid, can simultaneously correct a free water deficit (to lower the serum sodium concentration) and increase extracellular fluid volume. However, after the dextrose is rapidly metabolized, the resulting 0.45% saline is hypotonic. Thus, this fluid would not be sufficiently effective for volume repletion in this patient, who presents with signs and symptoms of severe hypovolemia.

**D - Intravenous administration of 5% dextrose in water** - Gradual intravenous administration of 5% dextrose in water is a common initial fluid regimen to lower the serum sodium concentration of patients with euvolemic or hypervolemic hypernatremia. However, following the rapid metabolism of dextrose, the resulting free water is very hypotonic. Thus, it would not increase this patient's extracellular fluid volume sufficiently to treat his hypovolemia.

**E - Intravenous administration of 0.45% saline** - Intravenous administration of 0.45% saline, a hypotonic fluid, can simultaneously correct a free water deficit (to lower the serum sodium concentration) and increase the patient's extracellular fluid volume. However, hypotonic fluids would not be sufficiently effective for volume repletion in this patient, who presents with signs and symptoms of severe hypovolemia.

