### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Leukocytoclastic vasculitis** - Leukocytoclastic vasculitis is an umbrella term for vasculitides, including Henoch-Schönlein purpura (HSP). HSP is an acute immune-complex mediated vasculitis of the small vessels that is often preceded by an upper respiratory infection. The patient's history of pharyngitis 2 weeks ago and the palpable non-blanching skin lesions with arthritis and abdominal pain are classic signs of HSP. HSP can also present with bloody stools or occult bleeding (as in this patient) but is accompanied by a raised platelet count, which helps to differentiate it from thrombocytopenia leading to intestinal bleeding and petechiae.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Immune thrombocytopenic purpura** - Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is characterized by isolated thrombocytopenia and is the most common cause of bleeding diathesis in children. The etiology is unclear, but it is commonly associated with a previous viral infection of the upper airway. Although the patient possibly had viral pharyngitis (sore throat), she has a slightly elevated platelet count, which excludes the diagnosis of ITP.

**B - Drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome** - Drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome (DRESS) can occur ∼ 1–8 weeks pharmacotherapy. The reaction is characterized by eosinophilia, thrombocytopenia, fever, and rash and can also lead to multiple organ failure. Although amoxicillin can also cause DRESS, the patient here does not have fever, organ failure, or thrombocytopenia, making another diagnosis more likely.

**C - Acute rheumatic fever** - Acute rheumatic fever is an inflammatory complication of group A β-hemolytic streptococcal (GAS) pharyngitis that usually occurs 2–4 weeks after the initial infection. Acute rheumatic fever is important to consider in this patient who recently had a sore throat; however, her medical history reveals that she was treated with amoxicillin, which normally prevents the development of acute rheumatic fever. Furthermore, this patient does not have carditis (valve lesions, abnormal EKG), neurological involvement (Sydenham chorea), or subcutaneous nodules, making another diagnosis more likely.

**D - Juvenile idiopathic arthritis** - Patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis present with joint pain and extraarticular manifestations such as rashes. To establish the diagnosis, patients must be < 16 years of age and have joint inflammation that lasts > 6 weeks This patient has only had ankle swelling for one week. Additionally, intermittent abdominal pain and recent pharyngitis would not be expected with JIA.

**E - Familial Mediterranean fever** - Familial Mediterranean fever is characterized by recurrent episodes of fever and severe abdominal pain that are occasionally accompanied by monoarthritis and skin manifestations. Although this patient has intermittent abdominal pain, she does not have fever or a family or ethnic history consistent with this diagnosis.

**G - Meninigococcal septicemia** - Patients with meningococcal septicemia are severely ill, have high fever, and typically develop a petechial or purpuric rash and organ failure. Although this patient has likely not yet received a meningococcal vaccine (not routinely given to children in the US < 11 years of age) and is thus at increased risk of infection, she only has a purpuric rash, without high fever or organ failure, which makes this diagnosis unlikely.

