### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Administer intravenous saline with furosemide** - Before surgery can safely proceed, this patient should undergo treatment with intravenous saline and furosemide to decrease his elevated potassium levels. Indications for urgent treatment of hyperkalemia include potassium levels > 6.5 mEq/L (even when there are no ECG abnormalities), hyperkalemia associated with ECG changes, and hyperkalemia with severe acidosis. Because this patient has a normal ECG and his potassium levels are < 6.5 mEq/L, intravenous fluids and loop diuretics will sufficiently lower his potassium levels. Alternatives to lower total body potassium include exchange resins, e.g., sodium polystyrene sulfonate (kayexalate), which bind to potassium in the intestine and increase its excretion, and hemodialysis (in patients with impaired renal function).

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**B - Administer intravenous sodium bicarbonate** - Intravenous sodium bicarbonate is indicated for patients with severe metabolic acidosis (pH < 7.1). Metabolic acidosis can cause hyperkalemia, but this patient has normal bicarbonate levels, which makes metabolic acidosis unlikely.

**C - Administer intravenous insulin and glucose** - Administration of intravenous insulin and glucose is an emergency treatment for hyperkalemia. This combination rapidly shifts potassium into cells; insulin increases the activity of the Na+-K+-ATPase in skeletal muscle, while glucose prevents hypoglycemia. Intravenous insulin and glucose decrease serum potassium levels but do not decrease total body potassium. Because total body potassium should be lowered in this patient and there is no need for emergency treatment, a different step in management is more appropriate.

**D - Order dietary modification** - This patient must be NPO before undergoing surgery. However, neither withholding food or liquids nor adopting a low-potassium diet is likely to decrease his potassium levels from one day to the next. This patient's treatment should focus on promoting total body potassium excretion, not limiting potassium intake.

**E - Administer intravenous calcium gluconate** - Intravenous calcium gluconate is an emergency treatment for hyperkalemia. High potassium levels lead to inactivation of sodium channels and depolarization of the resting cardiac membrane potential, making the heart more vulnerable to arrhythmias. Calcium directly antagonizes the effect of hyperkalemia in myocyte membranes, resulting in myocardial membrane stabilization. It is primarily used for cardiac protection in the setting of acute, severe hyperkalemia, and it does not lower total body potassium. This patient, who has moderate hyperkalemia, needs his total body potassium lowered promptly before surgery, but he does not require emergency treatment.

**F - Initiate hemodialysis** - Hemodialysis is indicated for patients with hyperkalemia and end-stage renal disease or oliguria. In a patient with normal kidney function (creatinine 1.0 mg/dL) and no abnormalities on ECG, there is no indication for hemodialysis.

