### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Tuberculosis** - Tuberculosis is an infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis. In a patient who recently immigrated from Indonesia, the symptoms of shortness of breath and night sweats and the findings of low-grade fever and patchy infiltrations in the right lung are highly suspicious for tuberculosis. Tuberculosis may affect any organ, including the heart, and is the most common cause of constrictive pericarditis in developing countries.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Uremia** - Uremia is the excess of urea nitrogen in the blood, typically caused by chronic kidney disease. Severe uremia may affect the heart, causing fibrinous pericarditis. This patient has pericarditis; however, this patient's urea nitrogen is only marginally elevated, making uremia as the explanation for this patient's symptoms unlikely.

**B - Viral myocarditis** - Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle most commonly caused by viruses. Acute viral myocarditis is typically a sequela of a viral upper respiratory infection and may lead to concurrent inflammation of the pericardium. Although this patient's shortness of breath and fever may point to myocarditis, this patient does not have any chest pain or cardiac arrhythmias, which are typical findings in myocarditis. Additionally, pericardial thickening and calcifications suggest chronic pericarditis.

**C - Type 2 diabetes mellitus** - Type 2 diabetes mellitus is a chronic disease affecting the metabolism of glucose. Complications of diabetes mellitus include diabetic nephropathy, which may present with peripheral and pulmonary edema in cases of nephrotic-range proteinuria. However, the laboratory values only suggest mild kidney damage, and diabetes mellitus would not explain the findings of jugular venous distention and the positive Kussmaul's sign.

**E - Amyloidosis** - Amyloidosis is characterized by the build-up of abnormal protein fibers in various tissues. In the heart, amyloidosis causes restrictive cardiomyopathy, presenting with signs of diastolic heart failure. Although the findings of dyspnea, jugular venous distention, and hepatomegaly may suggest heart failure, amyloidosis would not explain the low-grade fever, night sweats, and pericardial thickening seen in this patient.

**F - Asbestos** - Asbestosis is a chronic lung disease that results from exposure to asbestos fibers. Although this patient's occupation as a shipyard worker may suggest possible exposure to asbestos fibers, the absence of cough and interstitial fibrosis on imaging make this diagnosis unlikely.

**G - Postmyocardial infarction syndrome** - Postmyocardial infarction syndrome, also known as Dressler's syndrome, is an immune-mediated inflammation of the pericardium that usually occurs 1–8 weeks after myocardial infarction. Although this patient presents with pericarditis, the occurrence of it 3 years after this patient's myocardial infarction would be very unusual. While this diabetic patient may have recently experienced a second, asymptomatic (“silent”) myocardial infarction, pericardial calcifications and patchy infiltrations in a lung make another underlying etiology more likely.

