### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Immersion of affected extremities in warm water** - This man presents with signs of frostbite on his hands following prolonged exposure to cold. To rewarm the hands and avoid further tissue damage, they should be immersed in a bath of warm (e.g., 37–39°C [99–102°F]), circulating water. Although hypothermia is not always present in patients with frostbite, and is not seen in this patient, rewarming measures should also be initiated to raise the core body temperature and improve peripheral circulation.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Debridement of the affected tissue** - Debridement may be indicated in the management of frostbite. While this patient's hands show features of frostbite, surgical treatment with debridement or amputation should not be performed until all nonviable tissue becomes clearly demarcated, a process that usually takes 3–4 weeks.

**B - Intra-arterial administration of tissue plasminogen activator** - Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), in combination with heparin, is indicated in the treatment of frostbite in patients without contraindications for anticoagulation therapy. tPA acts to prevent vascular thrombosis in frostbitten tissue, but it is usually reserved for patients at high risk for a life-altering amputation. This patient has cyanosis of the distal phalanges only, which will likely be treated with a soft-tissue amputation, or no amputation at all. A different step in management is more urgent at this time.

**C - Intravenous administration of warmed crystalloid** - Intravenous administration of warmed crystalloid is indicated to treat individuals with severe hypothermia (core body temperature < 28°C [82°F]). Since this patient is only borderline hypothermic, passive rewarming measures (e.g., removing wet clothing, warm room) are sufficient and IV crystalloid infusion is not required.

**D - Extracorporeal blood rewarming** - Extracorporeal blood rewarming may be used to manage individuals with severe hypothermia (core body temperature < 28°C [82°F]). While it is the most effective method of active rewarming, it is an invasive procedure associated with a number of risks (e.g., hemorrhages, stroke) and is reserved for management of the most severe cases. This patient would benefit from passive rewarming measures (e.g., warm clothing, blankets) but does not require treatment for severe hypothermia.

**E - Intravenous administration of antibiotics** - In an individual with frostbite, treatment with intravenous antibiotics and sterile dressings is indicated to manage bacterial superinfections. Since this patient shows no signs of infection (e.g., localized swelling, erythema, fever, leukocytosis), antibiotic treatment is not required.

