### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Reassurance** - The TST is considered positive in HIV-positive individuals if the induration is ≥ 5 mm. This patient's induration is 3 mm and is therefore considered negative. Negative TST can be interpreted to mean that the person has not been infected with the TB bacteria or that the person has been infected recently and not enough time has elapsed for the body to react to the skin test. Since he has no signs or symptoms to suggest an active tuberculosis infection, reassurance is all that is required at this stage.

Image File: 921-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60e327aadcc46.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Sputum stain and culture** - Mycobacterium tuberculosis staining and culture from sputum samples remains the gold standard for diagnosing active pulmonary TB and is typically performed using Ziehl-Neelsen or auramine-rhodamine stains. It is an important step in evaluating an individual with symptoms of activeTB infection or individuals with a positive TST. Since this patient is asymptomatic and shows a negative TST (3 mm is considered negative in HIV- affected patients), a sputum stain and culture are not indicated.

**B - Chest x-ray** - An x-ray of the chest to determine the best course of management is indicated if the TST or interferon-γ release assay is positive. Since a 3-mm induration is considered negative and this patient is asymptomatic, a chest x-ray is not required.

**D - Interferon-γ release assay** - Interferon-γ release assays (IGRA) can aid in diagnosing TB by measuring the interferon-γ release from T-cells primed with antigens of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. IGRA is performed, for instance, if the initial TST is negative but the individual was exposed to TB or there is strong clinical evidence for an infection. Since this patient has a negative TST and shows no clinical signs of pulmonary TB, nor was he exposed to M. tuberculosis, IGRA testing is not recommended.

**E - Repeat tuberculin skin test after 6–8 weeks** - The TST is not considered positive in this patient with an induration of 3 mm. If a TST is negative, a second TST is only recommended after 6–8 weeks in individuals exposed to TB or who show signs or symptoms of TB. This man is asymptomatic and does not require repeat testing.

**F - Start patient on isoniazid treatment** - Isoniazid monotherapy is advised for individuals who have been diagnosed with latent TB, which is diagnosed if an individual's TST or interferon-γ release assay is positive but there is no clinical/radiographic evidence of active TB. This man has a negative TST and is asymptomatic, so isoniazid therapy is not indicated.

**G - Sputum polymerase chain reaction for Myobacterium tuberculosis** - Sputum PCR for Mycobacterium tuberculosis is a rapid method of detecting the bacteria in sputum samples and diagnosing active pulmonary TB infections in symptomatic patients or those who have a positive TST. However, with a 3-mm induration, this man's TST is considered negative and he is currently asymptomatic, meaning PCR is not recommended.

