### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Previous falls** - This patient's history of previous falls is the main risk factor for future falls. Falls in elderly individuals are usually due to a combination of age-related factors (e.g., lower-extremity weakness, cognitive and/or visual impairment), underlying medical conditions (e.g., Parkinson disease, osteoarthritis of the knee, orthostatic hypotension), and environmental hazards (e.g., slippery surfaces). Certain medications, such as benzodiazepines, increase the risk of falling. Patients who have fallen should undergo a risk assessment that involves testing of visual acuity, cognitive, neurological, musculoskeletal, and hearing function, postural vital signs, and past medical history including information about the circumstances of the current as well as previous falls. Strategies to prevent further falls include minimizing medications, physical therapy, and modifying the elderly individual's home environment.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Medication use** - While medication use is an important risk factor for falls, this patient's current medications are not known to pose a risk. Drugs commonly associated with an increased risk of falling include central nervous system active drugs (e.g., antipsychotics, benzodiazepines, antidepressants) and vasodilators.

**C - Peripheral neuropathy** - Patients with peripheral neuropathy are at increased risk for falls due to progressive loss of sensation and weakness in the distal lower extremities. Though this patient has diabetes and is therefore at risk for developing peripheral neuropathy, her neurological exam showed no abnormal findings.

**D - Orthostatic hypotension** - Orthostatic hypotension is common in the elderly and is often associated with falls. While orthostatic hypotension is a known side effect of antihypertensive agents, ACE inhibitors such as enalapril are not implicated. Moreover, orthostatic hypotension typically manifests with symptoms such as dizziness, lightheadedness, and possibly loss of consciousness upon standing, none of which are reported by this patient.

**E - Family history of Parkinson disease** - Underlying chronic diseases such as Parkinson disease (PD) are an important risk factor for falls. While this patient's family history of PD raises her risk of developing this condition, she shows no signs or symptoms of PD.

**F - Alcohol use** - Though heavy alcohol use is a known risk factor for falls, light use, such as the one to two glasses of wine this patient drinks each week, is not associated with an increased risk of falling.

