### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency** - Genetic alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency is caused by impaired secretion of this protease inhibitor from cells in the liver, causing hepatitis, hepatomegaly, cirrhosis, and early-onset panlobular lung emphysema, as seen in this patient. Once suspected, the diagnosis can be confirmed via electrophoresis (decreased alpha-1 peak), serum antitrypsin testing, and liver biopsy. In individuals with alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, the x-ray typically shows panlobular emphysema, whereas smokers without alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency usually present with centrilobular emphysema.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Bronchiectasis** - Individuals with bronchiectasis usually also present with dyspnea, wheezing, and a chronic cough in conjunction with copious mucopurulent sputum. Spirometry findings would also be consistent with obstructive pulmonary disease in this case, but the chest x-ray would show parallel “tram track” lines, as well as thin-walled cysts and honeycombing in late stages, neither of which is seen here.

Image File: 928-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d94eb7005.jpg

**C - Constrictive bronchiolitis obliterans** - Constrictive bronchiolitis obliterans is caused by irreversible fibrotic conversion in the walls of bronchioles and presents with dyspnea, cough, and wheezing, as well as spirometry indicating obstructive lung disease. However, constrictive bronchiolitis obliterans often presents with normal findings on chest x-ray and it would not explain why this woman has an enlarged liver.

**D - Bronchial asthma** - This patient presents with spirometry findings indicating obstructive lung disease and classical symptoms of asthma that are exacerbated by exercise, including dyspnea, wheezing, and coughing. Although in severe cases of asthma, the chest x-ray may show hyperinflation, the panlobular emphysema and enlarged liver seen in this patient make a different cause more likely.

Image File: 928-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5ffe9b8f66010.jpg

**E - Hypersensitivity pneumonitis** - Hypersensitivity pneumonitis is a reaction that occurs following exposure to environmental allergens, e.g., actinomycete spores (“farmer's lung”), and can also present with productive cough and progressive dyspnea. However, the chest x-ray would show patchy reticulonodular or diffuse infiltrates (acute form), or ground-glass attenuation, honeycombing, and emphysema (chronic form). Despite this patient's long history of working as a farmer, a pulmonary function test would show a restrictive pattern and the liver would not be enlarged.

**F - Chronic obstructive lung disease** - COPD is a preventable lung disease that commonly presents with clinical and spirometry findings similar to those seen in this patient. Individuals with COPD caused by smoking usually present with centrilobular emphysema, whereas the chest x-ray of this quite young patient shows panlobular emphysema. Also, cigarette smoking-induced COPD is unlikely to develop in a patient < 45 years with a 6 pack-year smoking history. This patient most likely has COPD due to the condition that lead to her panlobular emphysema, but COPD is not the underlying cause of her condition and would not explain this patient's liver enlargement.

Image File: 928-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5639fcbd75159.jpg

