### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Pheochromocytoma** - Pheochromocytomas are classically associated with neurofibromatosis type 1. Patients with NF1 are also at increased risk for optic gliomas, especially as children. Hereditary pheochromocytomas are also associated with von Hippel-Lindau disease and multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 (MEN 2A, MEN 2B).

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Vestibular schwannoma** - Vestibular schwannomas, especially bilaterally, are classically associated with neurofibromatosis type 2. NF2 typically presents with complications of schwannomas (e.g., hearing loss or balance problems) and may cause other CNS tumors (e.g., meningioma). Hyperpigmented iris nodules and cognitive impairment, as seen in this patient, are not associated with NF2.

**B - Hemangioblastoma** - Hemangioblastomas are associated with von Hippel-Lindau disease. Affected patients generally present with renal and pancreatic cysts along with numerous benign and malignant tumors (e.g., hemangioblastomas of the retina, cerebellum, brain stem, and spine; pheochromocytoma; and bilateral renal cell carcinoma). The condition, however, would not explain this patient's skin and cognitive findings.

Image File: 929-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589461703c4a1.jpg

**D - Leptomeningeal angioma** - Leptomeningeal angiomas are seen in Sturge-Weber syndrome. Affected patients may suffer from recurrent seizures owing to these intracranial angiomas. Intellectual disability is also common. However, the distinguishing cutaneous manifestation of this condition is the port wine stain. This patient instead has hyperpigmented macules and pigmented iris nodules, neither of which are seen in Sturge-Weber syndrome.

Image File: 929-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5555d0acc888d.jpg

**E - Cardiac rhabdomyoma** - Cardiac rhabdomyomas are classically associated with tuberous sclerosis, which can also present with intellectual disability and seizures. However, cutaneous symptoms include hypopigmented ash-leaf spots but not hyperpigmented café au lait spots.

Image File: 929-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d9470e829.jpg

