### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Renal biopsy** - The presence of proteinuria in the setting of SLE should raise concern for lupus nephritis. The presentation of lupus nephritis is variable, and affected individuals are often initially asymptomatic. Even in the absence of elevated creatinine, active urine sediment or proteinuria should raise suspicion for lupus nephritis. A renal biopsy should be performed to confirm the diagnosis, establish the histopathologic type and severity of renal involvement, and determine the next course of action. Lupus nephritis is common among patients with SLE (∼ 50% are affected) and is a major cause of morbidity and mortality. Periodic screening with urinalysis and creatinine measurement is recommended for patients with lupus.

Image File: 930-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5dfa49d483e12.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Skin biopsy** - Skin biopsy is an appropriate diagnostic test when dermatomyositis is suspected. This condition can manifest with a malar rash, positive anti-nuclear antibodies (ANAs), and an elevated ESR, as seen here. However, the oral ulcers, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, and proteinuria seen in this patient would not be expected. In addition, this patient lacks characteristic symptoms of dermatomyositis, such as proximal muscle weakness, Gottron papules, and a heliotrope rash.

**C - Urine culture** - Urine culture is indicated if there is suspicion of a urinary tract infection (e.g., in the case of dysuria or flank pain). While this patient has pyuria on urinalysis, she does not present with any urinary complaints and her asymptomatic pyuria is most likely related to her underlying SLE rather than a UTI.

**D - Administration of hydroxychloroquine** - Hydroxychloroquine is commonly used in the treatment of SLE. However, the patient's proteinuria should raise concern for lupus nephritis, which requires an additional step to determine the next step in management.

**E - Administration of penicillin** - Penicillin is used in the treatment of syphilis. Although this patient has a positive VDRL, she has no additional clinical symptoms of primary or secondary syphilis (i.e., chancre, painless lymphadenopathy, condylomata lata, polymorphic rash involving the trunk, extremities, palms, and soles). Lupus can have anticardiolipin antibodies, and the VDRL test contains cardiolipin, so patients with SLE may present with a false-positive VDRL test.

**F - Rapid HIV test** - HIV screening with a rapid HIV test should be considered in all patients with a history of unprotected intercourse. Acute HIV infection can manifest with rash, oral ulcers, leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia, as seen here. However, the presence of positive ANA, elevated ESR, and proteinuria suggests a diagnosis of SLE, so a different intervention is indicated. Furthermore, the HIV rapid screening test is not recommended if acute HIV is suspected, because false negatives are common.

