### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Begin phlebotomy therapy** - Phlebotomy is an effective treatment for inducing remission of porphyria cutanea tarda and is the preferred initial therapy for patients with and without iron overload. It works by reducing hepatic iron stores, which in turn reduces the accumulation of porphyrins. Following remission, routine phlebotomy may be necessary to prevent recurrence of symptoms. Hydroxychloroquine is also an effective treatment for inducing remission of porphyria cutanea tarda, but contraindications (e.g., history of retinal disease) should be considered. Iron-chelating agents, such as deferoxamine, may also be indicated if phlebotomy is inadequate.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pursue liver transplantation** - Liver transplantation could address the etiology of porphyria cutanea tarda, the insufficiency of hepatic enzyme uroporphyrinogen-III decarboxylase. However, liver transplantation in this case would be inappropriate because of the availability of other non-invasive therapies that are highly effective.

**B - Begin oral thalidomide therapy** - Though there is limited evidence that thalidomide may reduce production of porphyrins, thalidomide therapy is not a primary therapy for porphyria cutanea tarda. There are other therapeutic approaches that are more effective.

**D - Begin oral hydroxychloroquine therapy** - Hydroxychloroquine is an effective treatment for inducing remission of porphyria cutanea tarda. It works by forming water-soluble complexes with porphyrins, which the kidneys can then excrete. However, there is a risk of retinal damage with hydroxychloroquine treatment, and it is contraindicated in patients with a history of retinal disease, as in this patient. Additional contraindications to hydroxychloroquine use include advanced liver and renal disease and psoriasis (which may flare with hydroxychloroquine treatment).

**E - Begin subcutaneous deferoxamine therapy** - Iron-chelating agents, including deferoxamine, can induce remission of porphyria cutanea tarda through the reduction of hepatic iron stores, which reduces the accumulation of porphyrins. However, they are less effective than phlebotomy and thus are typically only used in patients who cannot tolerate phlebotomy or have poor venous access.

