### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Intraosseous cannulation** - Within the first few minutes of intervention for septic or hypovolemic shock in children, vascular or intraosseous access (IO access) should be established. IO access is indicated if peripheral intravenous access cannot be established. IO cannulation can typically be obtained quickly with a high rate of success on the first attempt. The proximal tibia is the most common site for IO cannulation.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Rapid sequence intubation** - Rapid sequence intubation can be an important part of the management of patients with shock if there is concern for airway compromise or impending respiratory failure. Although this patient is tachypneic, his oxygen saturation of 97% is currently stable with supplemental oxygen.

**B - Intramuscular epinephrine** - Intramuscular epinephrine is vital in the management of anaphylactic shock. This patient's presentation is consistent with shock secondary to sepsis and hypovolemia, however, in which case fluid resuscitation should be the first priority.

**C - Femoral vein cannulation** - Femoral vein cannulation is a form of central venous access that is often indicated in critically-ill patients. It allows for administration of fluids and certain drugs that should not be infused through smaller peripheral cannulation for long periods of time (e.g., vasoactive agents, potassium chloride). It is also the most common site for rapid central venous access. However, for a hemodynamically unstable patient with no peripheral access, there are other more rapid, safe forms of access that should first be attempted to prevent a delay in critical resuscitation.

**D - Internal jugular vein cannulation** - Internal jugular vein cannulation is a form of central venous access that is often indicated in critically-ill patients. It allows for administration of fluids and certain drugs that should not be infused through smaller peripheral cannulation for long periods of time (e.g., vasoactive agents, potassium chloride). However, in a hemodynamically unstable patient with no peripheral access, a more rapid form of access should first be obtained to prevent any delay in critical resuscitation. After rapid access and initial resuscitation measures are implemented, this patient would be a candidate for central venous access placement.

**F - Ultrasound-guided antecubital vein cannulation** - Ultrasound guidance increases the rate of success in establishing peripheral venous access. However, it can be time-consuming, even with an experienced operator. In a hemodynamically unstable patient, a more rapid form of access should be obtained to prevent a delay in critical resuscitation.

**G - Umbilical vein cannulation** - Umbilical vein cannulation can be a life-saving method of vascular access in neonatal resuscitation (< 10–14 days of age) and is commonly used during resuscitation just after delivery. However, this patient is 3 weeks old, which means his umbilical vein would likely no longer be patent.

