### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Low-dose of oral prednisone** - This patient presents with symptoms of polymyalgia rheumatica, a condition that is particularly common in women over 70 years of age. The diagnosis is established based on clinical symptoms and elevated ESR and CRP levels. If administration of low-dose oral prednisone leads to symptom improvement within 2–4 weeks, the dose can slowly be tapered; if not, the dose should be increased.

Image File: 934-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6040ff5ae97f9.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Muscle biopsy** - A muscle biopsy in an individual with shoulder girdle and hip pain can be indicated if polymyositis or dermatomyositis is suspected. While arthralgias may also occur and present similarly to polymyalgia rheumatica, the main diagnostic feature of inflammatory myopathies is muscle weakness. Because this patient shows full strength on physical examination, a muscle biopsy is not indicated.

**B - High dose of intravenous methylprednisolone** - High doses of intravenous methylprednisolone are administered to prevent further joint or organ damage in patients with severe inflammatory conditions, such as giant cell arteritis or rheumatoid arthritis. Since this patient presents with symptoms of polymyalgia rheumatica and shows no characteristic features of GCA (e.g., temporal headache, hardened temporal artery) or RA (e.g., involvement of MCPs/PIPs), treatment with high-dose methylprednisolone is not indicated.

**D - Electromyography** - Electromyography is indicated in patients with a suspected inflammatory myopathy, such as polymyositis or dermatomyositis. While both conditions affect the pelvic and shoulder girdle muscles and can be associated with arthralgias, the predominant symptom is muscle weakness. Since this patient has full muscle strength on examination, electromyography is not indicated.

**E - Temporal artery biopsy** - A biopsy of the temporal artery is indicated to confirm the diagnosis of giant cell arteritis (GCA). The condition may also present with fatigue, weight loss, and elevated ESR and CRP levels. While GCA is often associated with polymyalgia rheumatica, in the absence of the characteristic temporal headache, hardened, tender temporal artery, and impaired vision (e.g., vision loss, diplopia), a biopsy is not required.

Image File: 934-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6040ff5ae97f9.jpg

**F - Chest x-ray** - A chest x-ray should be considered in this patient to rule out lung cancer. With a smoking history of 50 pack years and constitutional symptoms of weight loss and fatigue, a malignancy is possible. However, since this woman has no further symptoms indicating lung cancer (e.g., cough, hemoptysis), and instead presents with symptoms of polymyalgia rheumatica, a chest x-ray is not the most appropriate next step in management.

**G - Antibody screening** - Antibody screening can be indicated in a patient presenting with joint pain and constitutional symptoms to rule out a number of conditions (e.g., SLE, RA, polymyositis). This patient's presentation strongly suggests polymyalgia rheumatica, which is not associated with elevated antibody levels. Screening is not the most appropriate next step in management.

