### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Administer intravenous insulin and glucose** - Intravenous insulin is a rapid-acting treatment option for patients with life-threatening hyperkalemia. It lowers potassium levels by stimulating the Na+/K+ ATPase pump, driving potassium into the intracellular space. Glucose is typically administered simultaneously in order to prevent hypoglycemia but can be withheld if the patient's blood glucose is ≥ 250 mg/dL. Although insulin rapidly lowers serum potassium, it does not lower total body potassium levels. Methods of eliminating potassium from the body include diuresis, gastrointestinal cation exchangers, and hemodialysis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Administer nebulized albuterol** - Albuterol can be used in the treatment of hyperkalemia by activating beta 2 adrenergic receptors and driving potassium into the cells. Although it has been shown to be clinically effective in the acute management of hyperkalemia when used in conjunction with other modalities, it is generally not used as a stand-alone treatment option.

**C - Initiate hemodialysis** - Hemodialysis is the most effective and definitive treatment option for the elimination of potassium in patients with renal failure or those who have failed initial treatment options. Although this patient may ultimately require hemodialysis due to his chronic kidney disease, it would not be appropriate as the initial management of life-threatening hyperkalemia since it is a time-consuming procedure.

**D - Administer intravenous furosemide and normal saline** - Diuresis with a loop diuretic such as furosemide is an effective method of eliminating potassium from the body. Furosemide is often given in combination with normal saline to maintain appropriate fluid status. However, this patient has chronic kidney disease that has been acutely worsened by rhabdomyolysis, making him a poor candidate to receive diuretics and intravenous fluids. Moreover, this patient has life-threatening hyperkalemia, which requires a more rapid-acting treatment option.

**E - Administer oral polystyrene sulfonate** - Polystyrene sulfonate is a gastrointestinal cation-exchanger that is used in the treatment of hyperkalemia by removing excess potassium ions from the body. Because polystyrene sulfonate has been associated with severe side effects including gastrointestinal necrosis, it has largely fallen out of favor and is only used when other modalities are ineffective in patients with life-threatening hyperkalemia. In addition, it would not be appropriate in this patient who requires a rapid-acting treatment option.

**F - Administer intravenous sodium bicarbonate** - Administration of intravenous sodium bicarbonate increases serum pH resulting in hydrogen ion release from cells and inward movement of potassium. However, this treatment is only effective over the course of several hours and is more beneficial in patients with significant metabolic acidosis. Therefore, it is not an appropriate treatment option in the acute management of life-threatening hyperkalemia.

