### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - The median is now smaller than the mean** - Typing in a much larger blood pressure reading will result in a smaller median than mean. While the median is the midpoint of a data set when the values are arranged in ascending order (e.g., 130, 145, 1400; median = 145), the mean corresponds to the sum of the values divided by the number of values in the set (e.g., (130 + 145 + 1400)/ 3 = 742) and is thus particularly susceptible to the influence of outliers.

Image File: 94-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59e606c4abd18.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - This is a systematic error** - Systematic errors (bias) are reproducible inaccuracies resulting from an inappropriate experimental design or inaccurate measuring or classification of variables, which is not the case here. The accidental inclusion of an outlier is a random error, which can be decreased with repeated measurement or by increasing the sample size.

**B - The median is now equal to the mode** - In a normal bell-shaped distribution of data, all measures of central tendency are equal (median = mode = mean). Since the outlier results in a positively skewed distribution, median and mode are no longer equal. The more skewed a distribution, the greater the difference between the measures of central tendency.

Image File: 94-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59e606c4abd18.jpg

**C - The standard deviation of the data set is decreased** - On the contrary, measures of precision, such as the standard deviation (SD) and variance (statistics), are increased as a result of this error. SD and variance reflect the spread of data, which becomes wider as a result of outliers.

**D - The mode is now greater than the mean** - On the contrary, the mode is now smaller than the mean. While the mean corresponds to the sum of values divided by the number of values in the set (e.g., (130 + 145 + 1400)/ 3 = 742), the mode is the most frequent value of a data set and thus more resistant to outliers (it lies somewhere between 130 and 145 in this case).

Image File: 94-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59e606c4abd18.jpg

**E - The range of the data set is unaffected** - The range of the data set has increased here, since it has changed from 130–145 to 130–1400. Outliers result in widening of the range of data.

