### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Congestive heart failure** - Congestive heart failure is the most likely underlying cause of this patient's pleural effusion. In HF with reduced ejection fraction, there is an elevation in left-sided filling pressures due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction, which, in turn, results in elevated pulmonary capillary hydrostatic pressures and increased interstitial fluid in the lung. This fluid then permeates into the pleural cavity and manifests as unilateral or bilateral pleural effusion. CHF almost always results in a transudative pleural effusion, which is seen as clear, pale, yellow-colored fluid on thoracentesis.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Pulmonary tuberculosis** - Pulmonary tuberculosis can cause unilateral pleural effusion. In contrast to this patient's fluid analysis, thoracentesis would demonstrate an exudative pleural effusion with lymphocytic predominance and elevated protein levels (> 3 g/dL). Moreover, this patient lacks other features of pulmonary tuberculosis, such as cough, fever, weight loss, and nights sweats.

**B - Pulmonary sarcoidosis** - Pulmonary sarcoidosis, although rarely associated with pleural effusion, would cause an exudative effusion. The pleural fluid on thoracentesis would appear cloudy, with higher protein levels (> 3 g/dL) and an elevated cell count showing lymphocyte predominance. Moreover, this patient lacks other features of pulmonary sarcoidosis, such as cough, chest pain, and fever.

**D - Chronic pancreatitis** - In chronic pancreatitis, exocrine pancreatic secretions can leak into the retroperitoneum from a damaged pancreatic duct. In time, the fluid can enter the pleural cavity and collect as a pleural effusion. However, chronic pancreatitis would likely result in a cloudy exudative pleural effusion, which is typically associated with protein levels > 3 g/dL. Moreover, this patient lacks classic features of chronic pancreatitis, such as epigastric abdominal pain, malabsorption, and weight loss. In addition, pleural effusion due to chronic pancreatitis would classically be seen on the left side.

**E - Thoracic duct injury** - Thoracic duct injury, which is most often caused by trauma or surgery, would result in chylothorax, an exudative effusion that is due to leakage of lymphatic fluid (chyle) from the damaged thoracic duct. Although chyle often has a protein concentration in the range of a transudate (< 3 g/dL), it is typically a cloudy, milky fluid with a high lipid concentration. This patient's clear pleural fluid is not consistent with chylothorax. Moreover, he does not have a recent history of trauma or surgery.

**F - Bacterial pneumonia** - Bacterial pneumonia can cause unilateral parapneumonic effusion as a result of the migration of interstitial pulmonary fluid across the pleura. If bacteria invade the pleural space, a complicated effusion or empyema can result. In contrast to this patient's fluid analysis, thoracentesis would demonstrate a cloudy exudative pleural effusion with a high cell count, neutrophilic predominance, and elevated protein levels (> 3 g/dL). Moreover, bacterial pneumonia classically manifests with fever, chest pain, and purulent pleural fluid (in the case of empyema), none of which is seen here.

