### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - McCune-Albright syndrome** - The patient's triad of polyostotic fibrous dysplasia, café-au-lait spots, and peripheral precocious puberty (due to excess autonomous testosterone production) is highly suspicious for McCune-Albright syndrome. Laboratory tests would show elevated alkaline phosphatase, but normal calcium, PTH, and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels. An x-ray of her long bones would show the ground-glass appearance of fibrous dysplasia. Treatment includes administration of bisphosphonates, surgery of pathological fractures, and administration of antiandrogens and aromatase inhibitors in males.

Image File: 941-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f5a25b59dd98.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Osteogenesis imperfecta** - Recurrent bone fractures are also a feature of osteogenesis imperfecta. However, pathological fractures in OI are due to osteopenia and not fibrous dysplasia (different x-ray findings). Also, this patient lacks further findings of OI such as blue sclerae, growth retardation, hearing loss, and brittle, opalescent teeth.

Image File: 941-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58aecf77c0d1a.jpg

**C - Neurofibromatosis type I** - Café-au-lait spots and skeletal abnormalities (e.g., fractures, bowing of long bones) can also be found in patients with neurofibromatosis type I (NF1). However, pathological fractures in NF1 are due to cortical thinning of long bones and not due to fibrous dysplasia. In addition, this patient lacks further typical findings of NF1 such as neurofibromas, optic glioma, Lisch nodules, or a family history of NF1 in a first-degree relative.

Image File: 941-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5523c05ada72d.jpg

**D - Congenital adrenal hyperplasia** - In select types of congenital adrenal hyperplasia, patients can also present with peripheral precocious puberty due to errors in steroidogenesis. However, café-au-lait-spots are not seen and other typical findings of CAH such as hypotension, and severe electrolyte abnormalities (e.g., hyponatremia, hypochloremia and hyperkalemia) due to decreased aldosterone and cortisol production are missing in this patient. Girls with undetected and untreated CAH can further undergo prenatal virilization which would then likely be seen at birth. Lastly, all neonates must be screened for CAH.

**E - Tuberous sclerosis** - Tuberous sclerosis can also present with café-au-lait spots on physical examination. However, the condition typically presents along with ash-leaf spots, adenoma sebaceum, Shagreen patches, retinal lesions, cardiac rhabdomyomas, infantile seizures, developmental delay, and intellectual impairment, none of which are seen in this patient.

Image File: 941-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60cb03a262054.jpg

