### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Decreased vibratory sensation** - The megaloblastic anemia seen in this patient is most likely caused by vitamin B12 deficiency, which can also lead to neurological symptoms such as decreased vibratory sensation. A decreased absorption of the vitamin B12/intrinsic factor complex may be seen in Crohn disease as a result of a resected or impaired ileum, which was likely conducted to treat this patient's strictures. The result is vitamin B12 deficiency, which can ultimately cause macrocytic, megaloblastic anemia and/or neurological manifestations such as decreased vibratory sensation due to subacute degeneration of the spinal cord.

Image File: 942-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5de77590805f2.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Tarry stools** - Tarry stools are a sign of acute or chronic upper gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding, which may occur in Crohn disease and could lead to anemia. But bloody stools are not typical for Crohn disease, especially if there are no signs of acute exacerbation or complications, as in this patient. Additionally, the laboratory values do not reflect the microcytic anemia (MCV < 80 fL) that would be expected as a result of iron deficiency in a chronic GI bleeding. This patient does not have normocytic anemia (MCV 80–100 fL) either, meaning that an acute bleed is also unlikely.

**B - Impaired vision in her right eye** - Impaired vision has many etiologies, including neurological disease (e.g., multiple sclerosis), autoimmune disorders (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis), or local problems (e.g., vascular occlusion)—none of which this patient has. Although vitamin B12 deficiency could cause impaired vision, the symptoms would most likely be bilateral since vitamin deficiencies are systemic disorders. In addition, the patient would have most likely exhibited other neurological symptoms before vision loss.

**C - Unexplained weight gain** - Unexplained weight gain could be a symptom of autoimmune (Hashimoto) thyroiditis, the most common cause of hypothyroidism. Although Hashimoto thyroiditis can lead to this patient's chief complaints and is associated with Crohn disease, the megaloblastic anemia is unrelated. If the patient has hypothyroidism, we would expect an increased TSH and a decreased T4 if overt, or an increased TSH and a normal T4 if subclinical.

**D - Dark-colored urine** - Dark-colored urine can be due to hemoglobinuria as a result of hemolytic anemia or be caused by disorders that are associated with increased conjugated bilirubin, including hepatic (e.g., hepatitis) or posthepatic conditions (e.g., cholelithiasis). Although this patient has anemia, there are no signs that point to hemolysis (e.g., jaundice or splenomegaly) nor hepatic or posthepatic conditions (e.g., abdominal pain). Furthermore, hemolytic anemia usually presents as a normocytic (MCV 80–100 fL) rather than a megaloblastic anemia (> 100 fL).

