### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Fenofibrate** - While management of children and adolescents with hypertriglyceridemia mainly focuses on lifestyle modification (i.e., promoting a healthy diet, physical activity, and weight loss), pharmacotherapy to reduce the risk of acute pancreatitis should be initiated in patients with triglyceride serum levels >1000 mg/dL and can be considered for patients with serum levels of 400–1000 mg/dL. Fibrates, such as fenofibrate, are the most effective drug for lowering triglyceride serum levels and therefore are the treatment of choice.

Causes of dyslipidemia in children and adolescents include an unhealthy diet (e.g., high in saturated fats), an underlying condition (e.g., obesity, type 2 diabetes mellitus), and genetic defects. This patient's presentation with severe hypertriglyceridemia and a family history of dyslipidemia suggests a genetic disorder (e.g., familial hypertriglyceridemia). While hypertriglyceridemia itself is not a strong risk factor for cardiovascular disease, affected patients commonly have other cardiovascular risk factors (e.g., diabetes mellitus, obesity).

Image File: 943-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5a9aa382a0b11.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Metformin** - Metformin is the drug of choice for children and adolescents with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Although this patient has prediabetes (HbA1c 5.8%, fasting glucose 100–125 mg/dL), pharmacotherapy for diabetes is not indicated at this point. This patient requires pharmacotherapy for severe hypertriglyceridemia, for which metformin is not indicated.

**B - Ezetimibe** - Ezetimibe, a second-line treatment for children and adolescents with hypercholesterolemia, also slightly lowers serum triglyceride levels. However, it is not the treatment of choice for a patient with severe hypertriglyceridemia.

**D - Orlistat** - Orlistat is indicated for weight loss in obese patients and has a favorable effect on serum lipid values. Although this patient might benefit from orlistat, her severely elevated serum triglyceride levels put her at increased risk for acute pancreatitis, so another pharmacotherapy is more appropriate at this point.

**E - Atorvastatin** - Statins (e.g., atorvastatin), the first-line pharmacological treatment for children and adolescents with hypercholesterolemia, are also moderately effective in lowering serum triglyceride levels. However, statins are not the treatment of choice for a patient with severe hypertriglyceridemia.

