### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Amphotericin B** - Amphotericin B is the most appropriate initial pharmacotherapy for disseminated histoplasmosis. Treatment with amphotericin is given for 1–2 weeks and then followed by treatment with itraconazole for at least 12 months. For patients who are immunosuppressed and have only mild to moderate symptoms, treatment with itraconazole alone is appropriate. Patients who are immunocompetent typically only develop mild pulmonary disease and can be treated supportively.

Image File: 945-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f63531e85d20.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Levofloxacin** - Levofloxacin is used to treat Legionnaires' disease, which can manifest with nonspecific systemic symptoms (e.g., fever, fatigue, weight loss) and pulmonary involvement (e.g., cough, crackles). However, this condition typically manifests with diffuse interstitial infiltrates, not hilar lymphadenopathy and pulmonary nodules. In addition, Legionnaires' disease does not cause oral ulcers or hepatosplenomegaly. Levofloxacin is not used as the initial treatment for disseminated histoplasmosis.

**C - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole** - Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is used to treat Pneumocystis pneumonia, which can manifest with nonspecific systemic symptoms (e.g., fever, fatigue, weight loss) and pulmonary involvement (e.g., cough, crackles). However, this condition typically manifests with diffuse interstitial infiltrates, not hilar lymphadenopathy and pulmonary nodules. In addition, Pneumocystis pneumonia does not cause oral ulcers or hepatosplenomegaly. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is not used as the initial treatment for disseminated histoplasmosis.

**D - Flucytosine** - Flucytosine, in combination with amphotericin B, is used to treat cryptococcosis, which can manifest with nonspecific systemic symptoms (e.g., fever, fatigue, weight loss) and pulmonary involvement (e.g., cough, crackles, pulmonary nodules). However, this condition does not cause oral ulcers or hepatosplenomegaly. Flucytosine is not used as the initial treatment for disseminated histoplasmosis.

**E - Caspofungin** - Caspofungin is used to treat invasive candidiasis, which can manifest with nonspecific systemic symptoms (e.g., fever, fatigue, weight loss) and liver involvement (e.g., increased serum transaminases). However, this condition does not cause oral ulcers and only rarely affects the lungs. Caspofungin is not used as the initial treatment for disseminated histoplasmosis.

**F - Voriconazole** - Voriconazole is used to treat invasive aspergillosis, which can manifest with nonspecific systemic symptoms (e.g., fever, fatigue, weight loss) and pulmonary involvement (e.g., cough, crackles, pulmonary nodules). However, this condition does not cause oral ulcers or hepatosplenomegaly and only rarely causes hilar lymphadenopathy. Voriconazole is not typically used as the initial treatment for disseminated histoplasmosis.

