### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Staphylococcal exotoxin release** - The release of exotoxins produced by Staphylococcus aureus causes staphylococcal toxic shock syndrome (TSS), which is characterized by a prodrome of flulike symptoms (e.g., fever, headache, nausea, vomiting), an erythematous macular rash that involves the palms, soles, and inner thighs, and mucosal inflammation (e.g., nonpurulent conjunctivitis, oropharyngeal hyperemia). Patients can further develop signs of shock (e.g., hypotension, tachycardia, altered mental status) and/or end-organ dysfunction (e.g., hypoxemia, bilateral crackles), all of which are seen here. About half of TSS cases are caused by prolonged use of tampons over several days, which creates an ideal breeding ground for vaginal colonization and subsequent toxin formation. Other causes include nasal packing and infection of postsurgical or burn wounds. Patients with staphylococcal TSS require management of the underlying cause (e.g., removal of the foreign body, wound debridement), hemodynamic resuscitation, and antibiotic therapy.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Disseminated meningococcal infection** - Disseminated meningococcal infection (i.e., meningococcal septicemia) typically manifests with high fever, nausea, vomiting, and signs of shock and/or end-organ dysfunction (e.g., hypoxemia, bilateral crackles), all of which are seen here. However, most patients also present with severe myalgias and petechiae, most commonly affecting the trunk and lower limbs, and nuchal rigidity. A blanching macular rash involving the palms, soles, and inner thighs, nonpurulent conjunctivitis, and oropharyngeal hyperemia is not characteristic of meningococcal septicemia.

**C - Delayed hypersensitivity reaction** - A delayed hypersensitivity reaction, such as toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) or Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), can manifest with fever, conjunctivitis, erythematous macular rash, and signs of shock, all of which are seen here. However, the rash characteristic of TEN and SJS is painful, has a targetoid appearance, and forms bullae with vesicles that blister when pressure is applied. In addition, TEN and SJS most commonly develop as a result of medication use (e.g., sulfonamides, corticosteroids) or infection (e.g, with Mycoplasma pneumoniae, cytomegalovirus), whereas this patient's history is unremarkable and she uses no medications.

**D - Rickettsia rickettsii infection** - Infection with Rickettsia rickettsii causes Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF). RMSF is characterized by fever, nausea, vomiting, headaches, conjunctivitis, blanching macular rash involving the palms and soles, and signs of acute respiratory distress (e.g., hypoxemia, diffuse bilateral crackles) and/or shock (e.g., hypotension, tachycardia, altered mental status), all of which are seen here. Nevertheless, this patient has no known history of travel or a tick bite, which makes this diagnosis unlikely.

**E - Streptococcal erythrogenic toxin production** - Streptococcal erythrogenic toxin production is responsible for the development of streptococcal toxic shock syndrome (TSS), which is characterized by fever, headaches, nausea, vomiting, erythematous macular rash, and signs of shock and/or end-organ dysfunction (e.g., hypoxemia, bilateral crackles). However, streptococcal TSS usually develops in patients with invasive group A streptococcal (GAS) infections, e.g., necrotizing fasciitis, and is more common in young children and adults > 65 years of age; this 30-year-old patient's history is unremarkable and she has no findings that suggest invasive GAS infection.

