### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Ultrasonography** - Focused Assessment with Sonography for Trauma (FAST) is an essential component of management for blunt abdominal trauma. This patient presents after a motor vehicle collision and is hemodynamically unstable, which is concerning for intraperitoneal bleeding. The FAST exam screens for free fluid, especially blood.

Image File: 948-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_604b657dd7512.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Observation** - Observation is inappropriate in the management of this patient, who presents after blunt abdominal trauma with altered mental status, multiple bruises, and unstable vital signs. This patient needs urgent work-up and treatment for her hemodynamic instability.

**B - Exploratory laparotomy** - Exploratory laparotomy would not be the first step in managing blunt abdominal trauma. Other diagnostic approaches must be considered to investigate why this patient is hemodynamically unstable. However, in the case that no other resources are readily available, exploratory laparotomy should be pursued if there is high clinical suspicion of intraperitoneal hemorrhage.

**C - CT scan of the abdomen** - A CT scan of the abdomen would not be the next best step for managing this unstable patient. Although a CT scan can also show the presence of a hemoperitoneum, it takes time and unnecessarily exposes the patient to radiation when other more rapid diagnostic studies are available.

**E - Diagnostic peritoneal lavage** - Diagnostic peritoneal lavage (DPL) would not be the most appropriate next step because other less invasive and more readily available diagnostic studies should be available to assess for intraabdominal bleeding. A DPL can be considered when other diagnostic studies are unavailable or equivocal.

