### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Intravenous vancomycin and cefepime** - Intravenous vancomycin and cefepime are used for the empiric treatment of sepsis, particularly if pseudomonas is the likely underlying pathogen. This patient has features suggestive of hospital-acquired pneumonia and early sepsis. HAP is commonly caused by gram-negative bacilli (e.g., Pseudomonas) and Staphylococcus aureus, both of which are susceptible to this broad-spectrum antibiotic regimen. Treatment should be started immediately after blood cultures have been obtained. Any delay in antibiotic therapy is associated with further complications (e.g., septic shock, multiple organ dysfunction syndrome) and a significant increase in mortality.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - CT of the chest with contrast** - CT of the chest with contrast may be used for the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism (PE). Given her hospitalization and recent operation, this patient is at an increased risk for developing PE and has some symptoms that are consistent with this condition, like dyspnea, tachypnea, and cough. However, this diagnosis is unlikely because the patient does not mention any chest pain and – unlike the acute onset of symptoms typically seen in PE – this patient's condition was insidious in onset. The presence of malaise, fever, and chills, together with leukocytosis, suggest an infectious etiology.

**B - External cooling and intravenous acetaminophen** - External cooling (also known as therapeutic hypothermia) and intravenous acetaminophen are controversial measures that have been studied as part of the management of sepsis, but they have not been proven useful so far. Further research is required to assess the role of these interventions in the management of patients with sepsis. This patient's infection requires immediate treatment.

**C - Intravenous cefepime and oral metronidazole** - Intravenous cefepime combined with oral metronidazole is used for the treatment of postoperative abdominal infections. Although this patient has had abdominal surgery, there is no evidence of a surgical site infection; she has a well-healing surgical scar and her abdominal examination does not show any abnormalities.

**D - X-ray of the abdomen** - An abdominal x-ray may be useful for the diagnosis of pathological processes involving the abdomen such as bowel obstruction or a perforated ulcer. While postsurgical patients are at increased risk of developing a bowel obstruction, the abdominal examination was unremarkable in this patient. Her symptoms suggest an infectious condition originating in the lungs.

**E - Intravenous ceftriaxone and azithromycin** - Intravenous ceftriaxone and azithromycin may be used for the inpatient treatment of community-acquired pneumonia. This patient has features suggesting pneumonia, but she meets the criteria for hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) rather than community-acquired pneumonia. HAP is most commonly caused by gram-negative bacilli (e.g., Pseudomonas) and Staphylococcus aureus, which are not sufficiently covered by ceftriaxone and azithromycin. In addition, she has signs and symptoms suggestive of sepsis, which further warrants the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics that also cover MRSA and Pseudomonas aeruginosa.

**G - CT of the abdomen** - CT of the abdomen is indicated for the diagnosis of several conditions involving the abdomen, including acute pancreatitis. A patient with acute pancreatitis may present with pleural effusion and sepsis as complications. However, this patient does not present with abdominal pain, nausea, or vomiting, which are also signs of acute pancreatitis.

**H - Intravenous dobutamine** - Vasoactive agents, such as dobutamine, may be indicated for patients with septic shock. However, this patient does not have septic shock. She had sepsis-induced hypotension (her mean arterial pressure is 77 mm Hg) before fluid resuscitation was even initiated, which does not justify the use of vasoactive drugs. Furthermore, the appropriate first-line vasoactive agent for septic shock would be norepinephrine, which is used for its strong vasopressive effects. In this patient, the infection needs to be addressed more urgently.

