### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Oral nifedipine** - Calcium channel blockers, such as oral nifedipine, are first-line pharmacotherapeutic treatment for patients with (idiopathic) primary Raynaud phenomenon (Raynaud disease) because of their vasodilatory effect. About 75% of patients with primary Raynaud's phenomenon respond to nifedipine. Initial treatment should also include conservative measures, such as avoidance of triggers (e.g., cold, stress.)

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Oral propranolol** - Beta blockers (e.g., propranolol) are contraindicated in patients with Raynaud's phenomenon because they lead to further vasoconstriction of the arteries and worsen the vasospasms caused by the condition.

**B - Oral aspirin** - Aspirin may be administered for erythromelalgia in polycythemia vera (PV). Although erythromelalgia often mimics Raynaud's phenomenon, the pathophysiology differs. Raynaud's is caused by vasospasms, whereas erythromelalgia is caused by microvascular thrombosis due to hyperviscosity. This patient does not present with signs of PV (e.g., constitutional symptoms, plethora, pruritus) and her blood cell counts are not elevated, which excludes PV.

**C - Topical nitroglycerin** - Topical nitroglycerin is only used in severe courses of therapy-resistant secondary Raynaud's phenomenon (e.g., necrosis of finger tips) or if first-line treatment is poorly tolerated or contraindicated.

**E - Oral epoprostenol** - Epoprostenol may be administered for pulmonary hypertension and cases of severe and resistant Raynaud's phenomenon. It is typically administered intravenously. The patient in the vignette does not have any signs of severe disease (e.g., ulcers) and has not received any first-line agents yet, which means that epoprostenol is not indicated.

**F - Oral hydralazine** - Hydralazine is used in the treatment of high blood pressure, particularly in pregnant women. It is not indicated for the treatment of patients with Raynaud's phenomenon.

**G - Oral prednisone** - Oral prednisone may be used to treat patients with secondary Raynaud's phenomenon due to an underlying condition (e.g., vasculitides, connective tissue diseases). Unlike in this case, patients with secondary Raynaud's phenomenon typically have arterial changes in the fingers (and/or toes) that lead to vasospasm and thus have abnormal findings on nailfold capillary microscopy. This patient also has no signs of systemic disease.

