### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Takayasu arteritis** - Takayasu arteritis is a granulomatous inflammation involving all layers of the walls of large arteries such as the aorta and its major branches. Its incidence peaks at 15–45 years of age and it is more common in women (especially those of Asian ethnicity). In the initial stages of the disease, patients have nonspecific symptoms such as fever, malaise, and/or arthralgia. Eventually, the large arteries narrow, which causes the peripheral pulses to decrease in strength. Systemic inflammation causes elevation of ESR, CRP, leukocyte count, and thrombocyte count. In some patients, a necrotizing inflammation of medium-sized subcutaneous vessels occurs, which results in erythema nodosum.

Image File: 955-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_61322e500f6a5.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - Temporal arteritis** - Giant cell arteritis (GCT) is more common in women and can cause malaise, arthralgias, night sweats, decreased peripheral pulses, an elevated ESR, increased CRP, anemia, leukocytosis, and thrombocytosis. However, GCT is almost exclusively seen in patients above the age of 50 years, and cutaneous manifestations are not seen. Instead, patients typically have a history of headache, scalp pain, and jaw claudication because the temporal artery is frequently affected.

**B - Polyarteritis nodosa** - Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) can present with erythematous nodules, malaise, night sweats, arthralgia, anemia, leukocytosis, and elevated ESR and CRP. However, decreased radial/pedal pulsations are typically not present because peripheral vascular disease is a rare manifestation of PAN. Instead, patients usually present with hypertension and/or renal insufficiency (due to renal artery stenosis) and symptoms of neuropathy (e.g., paresthesias, sensory loss, weakness).

**C - Microscopic polyangiitis** - Microscopic polyangiitis can cause malaise, arthralgias, night sweats, erythematous lesions, anemia, leukocytosis, thrombocytosis, and elevated ESR and CRP. However, microscopic polyangiitis is usually seen in middle-aged adults, and the erythematous lesions typically take the form of palpable purpura. Furthermore, decreased peripheral pulses would not be expected because microscopic polyangiitis predominantly involves small arteries (arterioles). Instead, patients present with features of nephritic syndrome (e.g., hematuria, hypertension) and acute renal failure (e.g., oliguria) as a result of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis, or hemoptysis due to alveolar hemorrhage.

**D - Thromboangiitis obliterans** - Because thromboangiitis obliterans (TAO) causes endarteritis and occlusion of distal, medium-sized arteries, it could manifest in a young adult with decreased radial and dorsal pedis pulses. However, TAO is much more common in men, and features such as malaise, night sweats, arthralgia, erythematous nodules, a raised ESR, leukocytosis, and thrombocytosis would not be expected. Instead, a history of smoking, Raynaud phenomenon, and features of superficial thrombophlebitis (cord-like, painful veins) would be present.

