### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - Norepinephrine therapy** - Norepinephrine (NE) is the vasopressor of choice in patients with septic shock and persistent hypotension. In septic shock, circulating cytokines and bacterial toxins cause pathologic vasodilation and lead to decreased SVR (afterload) and PCWP (preload). Consequently, there is an increase in heart rate and cardiac output. High SvO2 can occur in 2 out of 3 forms of distributive shock (i.e., septic and anaphylactic shock) due to peripheral microcirculatory shunting and a subsequent lower O2 extraction rate. NE causes α1-mediated vasoconstriction, which results in increased SVR (afterload). However, cardiac output is typically maintained because of β1-mediated inotropy balancing this increase in afterload.

The absence of fever in this patient does not rule out sepsis. Patients with sepsis are often normothermic (especially if elderly or very young). In fact, if patients meet the sepsis criteria (i.e., ≥ 2 of the qSOFA criteria are present) and have normothermia or hypothermia, they should be treated more aggressively since the prognosis is poorer in these patients.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Phenylephrine therapy** - Phenylephrine, a vasopressor with mainly vasoconstrictive properties, can be used as first-line therapy for neurogenic shock, which can manifest with hypotension and a low PCWP. However, neurogenic shock typically results in bradycardia with low cardiac output and low SvO2 (due to higher O2 extraction rate because of slower peripheral blood flow). Moreover, this patient does not have a history of traumatic brain or spinal cord injury, which would be expected in neurogenic shock. In septic shock, phenylephrine may be used as a second-line pharmacotherapy.

**B - Dopamine therapy** - Dopamine was previously used for septic shock because it was thought to be renoprotective. However, it is no longer recommended as a first-line treatment for septic and cardiogenic shock because of the higher risk of tachyarrhythmia and possible mortality. It should only be considered as an alternative vasopressor in select cases (e.g., for patients with a low risk of tachyarrhythmia or with bradycardia).

**C - Dobutamine therapy** - Dobutamine, an inotrope that causes vasodilation, is indicated for cardiogenic shock, which manifests with hypotension and altered mental status. However, cardiogenic shock typically results in a high PCWP and normal or low SvO2 (due to increased O2 extraction from peripheral tissue hypoxia), unlike the low PCWP and high SvO2 seen here. Moreover, this patient does not have risk factors for cardiogenic shock (e.g., previous myocardial infarction, cardiomyopathy). In septic shock, dobutamine is not a first-line pharmacotherapy, but it can be considered for hypoperfusion that persists despite fluids and initial vasopressors.

**E - Hydrocortisone therapy** - Corticosteroids (e.g., hydrocortisone) are used in the treatment of anaphylactic shock, which can manifest with hypotension and hemodynamic monitoring parameters similar to those seen here (i.e., low PCPW, high cardiac output, low SVR, and elevated SvO2 due to lower O2 extraction rate). However, the onset of anaphylactic shock is typically within minutes to hours of exposure to a likely antigen, and other findings (e.g., urticaria, abdominal pain) are typically present. Hydrocortisone can be considered in septic shock refractory to the first vasopressor.

**F - No additional pharmacotherapy is indicated** - In septic shock, persistent hypotension (i.e., failure to maintain mean arterial pressure ≥ 65 mm Hg after fluid resuscitation) is an indication for pharmacotherapy.

