### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Iron deficiency anemia** - Koilonychia is a finger nail change observed in iron deficiency anemia, which also presents with tiredness and dyspnea as seen in this patient. These changes are thought to be caused by weakening of nail connective tissue due to poor blood flow and reduced activity of iron‐containing enzymes. In resource-rich settings, the most common cause of iron deficiency anemia in adult men is gastrointestinal bleeding, which is why after confirming this patient's iron deficiency, additional evaluations for possible causes should be performed.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**B - Interstitial fibrosis** - Interstitial fibrosis is a common cause of digital clubbing in developed countries but is not associated with spoon-shaped nails. Clubbing occurs due to chronic hypoxia and is characterized by an excessive proliferation of connective tissue between the nail matrix and the distal phalanx. Interstitial fibrosis is associated with slowly progressive dyspnea and fatigue, which this patient exhibits. However, a persistent nonproductive cough and bibasilar crackles on auscultation would also be expected.

Image File: 958-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5b181cee357cc.jpg

**C - Herpetic whitlow** - Herpetic whitlow is a herpes simplex virus infection that typically affects the skin or the nail folds and cuticle of a single finger. It is not associated with spooning of fingernails but manifests as a cluster of very painful vesicles filled with nonpurulent fluid. Patients may occasionally present with fever and lymphadenitis, but tiredness and dyspnea as experienced by this patient are not features of herpetic whitlow.

Image File: 958-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_582c28b429e1e.jpg

**D - Psoriasis** - Psoriasis-associated nail changes include nail pitting, oil drop discoloration, onycholysis, subungual hyperkeratosis, splinter hemorrhages, brittle fingernails, and Beau lines. However, nail psoriasis does not cause spoon-shaped nails. Psoriatic nail changes also most often occur after the onset of cutaneous disease that is characterized by erythematous lesions and silvery-white scaling plaques on the scalp, back, knees and elbows, which are not present in this patient. Furthermore, psoriasis is not associated with dyspnea and fatigue.

Image File: 958-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91617532.jpg

**E - Dermatophyte infection** - Fungal (dermatophytic) infection of the finger nail, onychomycosis, presents with discoloration and splitting of the fingernail as well as a thickened and ridged nail bed covered with keratotic debris. It does not cause fingernail spooning as observed in this patient. In addition, dermatophyte infections are not associated with tiredness and dyspnea.

Image File: 958-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58456ba3a282f.jpg

**F - Infectious endocarditis** - The typical fingernail changes observed in infective endocarditis are splinter hemorrhages caused by embolization of small clots in the capillaries of the fingernails. They appear as dark-red longitudinal lines under the nail plate as opposed to the fingernail spooning observed in this patient. Even though infective endocarditis can manifest with tiredness and dyspnea, other cardinal features like fever or a new heart murmur would be expected.

Image File: 958-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_59020e83045d2.jpg

