### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Amoxicillin** - Amoxicillin is a first-line treatment for Lyme disease in children. This patient has erythema migrans and she went camping 10 days ago. Together with headache and achy muscles, these features are consistent with localized Lyme disease. The remaining papular skin findings in this patient are likely due to mosquito bites. Amoxicillin is also the first-line treatment in pregnant and lactating women with Lyme disease.

Doxycycline is an alternative first-line treatment for Lyme disease that has recently been approved for short-term (≤ 21 days) therapy in pediatric patients of any age.

Image File: 963-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_56669b546be81.jpg

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**B - Ceftriaxone** - Ceftriaxone is the drug of choice in disseminated Lyme disease, which generally does not occur until 3–10 weeks after a bite from an infected tick. Also, while this patient has signs of early localized Lyme disease (i.e., erythema migrans, flulike symptoms), she does not have evidence of disseminated Lyme disease (e.g., Lyme arthritis, Lyme carditis, or neuroborreliosis), which would be an indication for treatment with ceftriaxone.

**C - Clotrimazole** - Clotrimazole can be used topically for the treatment of tinea corporis. Because tinea corporis also manifests with a circular rash, it may appear similar to Lyme disease. However, in contrast to erythema migrans, the rash associated with tinea corporis is scaly, severely itchy, and has raised borders. Furthermore, symptoms such as headaches and achy muscles make a different diagnosis more likely.

Image File: 963-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91066363.jpg

**D - Penicillin G** - Penicillin G is used to treat early or late disseminated Lyme disease, not early localized Lyme disease. While this patient has signs of early localized Lyme disease (i.e., erythema migrans, flulike symptoms), she does not have evidence of disseminated Lyme disease (e.g., Lyme arthritis, Lyme carditis, or neuroborreliosis), which would be an indication for treatment with penicillin G.

**E - Tetracycline** - Tetracycline is a drug of the tetracycline class that is sometimes used in the treatment of Lyme disease as an alternative to doxycycline, although it is not routinely recommended. Moreover, tetracycline is contraindicated in children < 8 years of age due to potential inhibition of bone growth and permanent discoloration of the primary teeth secondary to binding of calcium. On the other hand, use of doxycycline, which has less affinity for calcium compared to other tetracyclines, has recently been approved for short-term (≤ 21 days) therapy in pediatric patients of any age, including for the treatment of Lyme disease.

**F - Azithromycin** - Macrolides (e.g., azithromycin) are not recommended as a first-line antibiotic in patients with Lyme disease. Because bacterial resistance to macrolides is increasing and they are generally not as effective as other antibiotics, macrolides are only given to patients with contraindications to first-line antibiotics.

