### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Single transverse palmar crease** - A single transverse palmar crease is one of the key dysmorphic features of patients with trisomy 21. Additional findings in the extremities include a large gap between the first and second toes (sandal gap sign), clinodactyly, camptodactyly, and brachydactyly. The likelihood of a trisomy 21 pregnancy rises with advanced maternal age. The incremental risk increases most between 30–40 years of age.

Image File: 964-F
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e7884782e5a8.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Ambiguous external genitalia** - Ambiguous external genitalia is seen in several disorders of sexual development (DSDs), such as congenital adrenal hyperplasia and placental aromatase deficiency. However, DSDs are not typically associated with specific findings on first-trimester ultrasonography or the quadruple test.

**B - Microphthalmia** - Microphthalmia is associated with several congenital syndromes, such as trisomy 13, but not trisomy 21. In pregnancies affected by trisomy 13, the quadruple test is typically normal. Ultrasonography around 12 weeks' gestation can show several findings, including nasal bone hypoplasia (as seen in this patient) and skeletal defects, such as polydactyly.

**C - Extremity lymphedema** - Congenital extremity lymphedema is associated with Turner syndrome, but not trisomy 21. In pregnancies affected by Turner syndrome with fetal hydrops, the quadruple test may show similar results, as seen in this case (↓ α-fetoprotein and free estriol, ↑ inhibin A and β-hCG). However, nasal bone hypoplasia is more strongly associated with trisomy 21 than Turner syndrome, and ultrasonography for this case shows no evidence of hydrops (e.g., ascites, polyhydramnios). Advanced maternal age also increases the risk of having a child with trisomy 21, but not Turner syndrome.

**D - Meningomyelocele** - Meningomyelocele is a neural tube defect associated with folic acid deficiency prior to pregnancy and/or during early fetal development; no association with trisomy 21 exists. In pregnancies affected by neural tube defects, the quadruple test typically shows elevated α-fetoprotein and normal free estriol, inhibin A, and β-hCG concentrations. Ultrasonography around 12 weeks' gestation usually shows spine irregularities or bulging within the posterior contour of the back of the fetus.

Image File: 964-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5f93bba654427.jpg

**E - Clenched fists** - Clenched fists with overlapping fingers (the index finger over the third finger and the fifth finger over the fourth) are associated with trisomy 18, but not trisomy 21. In pregnancies affected by trisomy 18, the quadruple test typically shows decreased concentrations of α-fetoprotein, free estriol, and β-hCG, and a normal or decreased concentration of inhibin A. Although ultrasonography around 12 weeks' gestation may show several findings, including clenched fists with overlapping fingers, nasal bone hypoplasia would be uncommon.

Image File: 964-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5e78867c6fe7c.jpg

