### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Decreased urinary bicarbonate excretion** - Decreased urinary HCO3- is a sign of a compensatory measure made by the body in response to chronic respiratory acidosis. The distal convoluted tubules and collecting ducts in the kidneys increase excretion of H+ (in the form of H2PO4‑) and NH4+, raising the blood pH to compensate for respiratory acidosis. Furthermore, the proximal convoluted tubules reabsorb HCO3-, improving the buffer capacity of the serum against lower pH. Respiratory acidosis in COPD is primarily due to parenchymal disease (capillary destruction in emphysema), which increases alveolar dead space and thereby worsens V/Q mismatch. In acute exacerbation of COPD, alveolar ventilation is further impaired because of increased airway resistance, leading to decreased tidal volumes and worsening hypercapnia.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Increased urine osmolar gap** - An increased urine osmolar gap occurs in metabolic acidosis, primarily through an increase in the excretion of H+ in the form of NH4+. It would not be increased in respiratory acidosis because CO2 is the cause of the change in blood pH.

**C - Increased urinary pH** - Increased urinary pH is caused by the increased excretion of HCO3- in the renal tubules that occurs as a compensatory mechanism in individuals with respiratory alkalosis. This patient's decreased arterial pH and increased PCO2, however, indicate respiratory acidosis, in which the compensatory mechanism is a decrease (not an increase) in urinary pH.

**D - Increased serum anion gap** - An increased serum anion gap occurs in high anion gap metabolic acidosis because of an accumulation of unmeasured ions (e.g., ammonium, butyrate, citrate, lactate). In respiratory acidosis, the change in blood pH is caused by CO2; therefore, the serum anion gap would remain unchanged.

**E - Decreased serum potassium** - Decreased serum K+ levels occur in alkalosis through a shift of K+ ions between the plasma and cellular compartments. Extracellular K+ exchanges with intracellular H+ as a compensatory mechanism to lower pH levels. However, in this patient with respiratory acidosis, an increase in serum K+ would be expected.

**F - Decreased urinary chloride concentration** - Decreased urinary chloride concentration occurs in secondary hyperaldosteronism, e.g., caused by volume depletion (contraction alkalosis). Loss of volume leads to activation of the RAAS and, thus, an increase in angiotensin II, which promotes renal tubular excretion of H+ ions and reabsorption of Na+, Cl-, and H2O. These changes lead to a decreased urinary chloride concentration. Respiratory acidosis, which is seen in this patient, is not associated with significant changes in urinary chloride concentration.

