### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Large-vessel vasculitis** - Giant cell arteritis, a type of large-vessel vasculitis, most commonly presents in the elderly. This patient's constitutional symptoms (fever, weakness, weight loss) with additional symptoms of polymyalgia rheumatica, unilateral headache, and an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate are all suggestive of this disease. Polymyalgia rheumatica is frequently associated with giant cell arteritis, as ∼ 50% of patients with GCA have PMR, and ∼ 15% of patients with PMR will have GCA. Prompt diagnosis via temporal artery biopsy and treatment is warranted to prevent serious complications such as visual loss (from anterior ischemic optic neuropathy) or cerebral ischemia.

Image File: 967-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_6040ff5ae97f9.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Tension headache** - Tension headaches are usually bilateral, not unilateral, and present with dull, pressure-like or band-like pain, often triggered by stress. Unilateral pain, fever, weight loss, symptoms of polymyalgia rheumatica, and an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, as seen in this patient, cannot be explained by this diagnosis.

Image File: 967-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58aeb404ecedf.jpg

**C - Migraine** - While migraine headaches may present with unilateral headaches, these are frequently accompanied by nausea, vomiting, and sensitivity to light and sound. In addition, a typical aura (visual scotomas, paresis) may be present. The absence of these symptoms, as well as the presence of constitutional symptoms (weakness, fatigue) and an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, makes migraine headaches an unlikely diagnosis.

Image File: 967-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5efc86039e129.jpg

**D - Chronic subdural hematoma** - While chronic subdural hematoma (SDH) can cause slowly progressive chronic headaches and fatigue in this patient with a history of head trauma, there is no evidence of cognitive impairment or focal neurologic deficits that are usually associated with chronic SDH. Additionally, SDH would not explain fever, elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, or symptoms of polymyalgia rheumatica.

Image File: 967-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d90d69280.jpg

**E - Polyarteritis nodosa** - Polyarteritis nodosa can present with constitutional symptoms (e.g., fever, fatigue, muscle pain) and a high ESR level, as seen in this patient. However, this patient lacks other typical features of PAN such as renal involvement (e.g., urinary changes, hypertension), skin involvement (e.g., rash, ulcerations), and GI involvement (e.g., abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting). Also, her unilateral headache and polymyalgia rheumatica are atypical for PAN.

**F - Hyperthyroidism** - Hyperthyroidism can present with generalized fatigue and proximal muscle weakness, as seen in this patient. However, unlike this patient, deep tendon reflexes are usually increased in hyperthyroidism. Furthermore, unilateral headache and muscle stiffness cannot be explained by this diagnosis.

**G - Cluster headache** - Cluster headache typically presents with a unilateral headache, as seen in this patient. However, this patient lacks other typical features of cluster headache such as a cyclical pattern (i.e., clusters), and ipsilateral autonomic symptoms (e.g., conjunctival injections and/or lacrimation, rhinorrhea, ptosis, and miosis), and instead she presents with generalized fatigue, polymyalgia rheumatica, and high ESR, all of which are atypical for cluster headache.

Image File: 967-G
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5d78a7054c922.jpg

