### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - Indinavir** - Therapy with indinavir, a protease inhibitor, increases the risk of developing HIV-associated lipodystrophy. Other HIV antiretrovirals that can also cause these symptoms include other protease inhibitors as well as some nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (especially zidovudine and stavudine).

Image File: 969-C
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_60e57fb7bc07d.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Nevirapine** - Nevirapine can in some cases cause dyslipidemia, but would it not be expected to cause lipodystrophy with abnormal fat distribution as seen in this patient. Instead, notable side effects include hepatotoxicity and rash.

**B - Enfuvirtide** - Enfuvirtide is a well-tolerated medication that would not be expected to cause lipodystrophy with abnormal fat distribution as seen in this patient. Instead, a notable side effect is skin reactions at injection sites.

**D - Raltegravir** - While raltegravir, an integrase inhibitor, can cause hypercholesterolemia and increased levels of glucose, it is not known to cause lipodystrophy with abnormal fat distribution as seen in this patient.

**E - Abacavir** - While other nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, such as zidovudine and stavudine, can cause lipodystrophy, it is not a known side effect of abacavir. Instead, notable side effects include bone marrow suppression and abacavir-related hypersensitivity syndrome.

