### ** Correct Answer: **

**E - Administration of doxycycline** - Doxycycline is the first-line therapy for Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) for both adults and children. Though doxycycline therapy is usually avoided in children because it can cause dental staining, short courses of treatment are associated with a low risk of this adverse effect. The diagnosis of RMSF is made based on clinical presentation and epidemiological suspicion. For patients in whom a diagnosis of RMSF is suspected, empiric therapy should be initiated within 5 days of symptom onset; delays in treatment are associated with increased mortality.

Image File: 978-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_58c6bf31e30fb.jpg

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - Two-step serologic testing** - Two-step serologic testing, which includes an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and a western blot test, is used to detect IgG and IgM antibodies against Borrelia burgdorferi, which causes Lyme disease. This condition typically develops 7–14 days after a tick bite and initially manifests with flu-like symptoms and erythema chronicum migrans, a circular, slowly-expanding red ring with central clearing around the bite site. This patient has a blanching, macular rash on the palms and soles and a petechial rash on the wrists, forearms, and ankles, which is not consistent with a diagnosis of Lyme disease. Serologic testing can also be used to confirm a diagnosis of RMSF. However, for patients in whom a diagnosis of RMSF is suspected, empiric therapy should be initiated within 5 days of symptom onset; waiting for confirmatory testing can result in delays of treatment, which are associated with increased mortality.

**B - Reassurance and follow-up in 5 days** - Reassurance and follow-up in 5 days are not the most appropriate next steps in management for patients with a suspected diagnosis of Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF), which is associated with significant morbidity and mortality.

**C - Administration of chloramphenicol** - Chloramphenicol is the second-line therapy for Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF). However, it is typically used only when a patient has a history of a severe adverse reaction to the first-line therapy for RMSF. Chloramphenicol therapy can cause fatal aplastic anemia. Patients who receive this treatment should receive regular monitoring of the complete blood count.

**D - Polymerase chain reaction blood test** - Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing is a method of DNA amplification used to diagnose several conditions, including RMSF. However, PCR testing to confirm a diagnosis of RMSF is not routinely performed. In addition, the utility of PCR testing for RMSF is limited due to the test's low sensitivity, especially in the early course of the disease.

**F - Skin biopsy** - Skin biopsy can be used to confirm a diagnosis of RMSF; a positive direct immunofluorescence stain is highly specific for this condition. However, waiting for confirmatory testing can result in delays of treatment, which are associated with increased mortality.

**G - Administration of penicillin** - Penicillin is a beta-lactam antibiotic that is used to treat many conditions, including syphilis. This condition can manifest with fevers, headaches, myalgias, and a maculopapular rash on the palms and soles; it does not typically cause a petechial rash. In addition, this patient does not have identified risk factors for syphilis (e.g., sexual contact), nor does she have other typical features of this condition (e.g., lymphadenopathy, condylomata lata). Penicillin is not used to treat Rocky Mountain spotted fever.

