### ** Correct Answer: **

**D - 60** - The number of expected false negative results of the new test is calculated as the number of people with malaria (i.e., 200, the number of people with a positive blood smear) multiplied by the false negative rate of the new test, which is defined as 1 – sensitivity. Thus, the number of expected false negative results of the new test is 200 × (1 – 0.7) = 60.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**A - 155** - This value is the number of all expected positive results of the new test (i.e., the sum of the true positive results and false positive results).

**B - 15** - This value is the number of expected false positive results of the new test, which is calculated as the number of people without malaria (i.e., 150, the number of people with a negative blood smear) multiplied by the false positive rate of the new test, which is defined as 1 – specificity (epidemiology). Thus, the number of expected false positive results of the new test is 150 × (1 – 0.9) = 15.

**C - 195** - This value is the number of all expected negative results of the new test (i.e., the sum of the true negative results and false negative results).

**E - 140** - This value is the number of expected true positive results of the new test, which is calculated as the number of people with malaria (i.e., 200, the number of people with a positive blood smear) multiplied by the sensitivity (epidemiology) of the new test, which is given as 70%. Thus, the number of expected true positive results of the new test is 200 × 0.7 = 140.

**F - 135** - This value is the number of expected true negative results of the new test, which is calculated as the number of people without malaria (i.e., 150, the number of people with a negative blood smear) multiplied by the specificity (epidemiology) of the new test, which is given as 90%. Thus, the number of expected true negative results of the new test is 150 × 0.9 = 135.

