### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Observation only** - Reassurance and observation alone are recommended for asymptomatic popliteal cysts. Primary popliteal cysts generally have a self-limiting course and resolve spontaneously within 1–2 years. Patients who have an uncertain diagnosis, symptomatic popliteal cysts, or in whom a secondary cause of popliteal cysts is suspected may require further workup (e.g., x-ray, MRI of the knee). Surgical excision may be considered for primary popliteal cysts that are symptomatic (e.g., pain, limited range of motion) or fail to resolve spontaneously.

For symptomatic secondary popliteal cysts, the initial treatment consists of treating the underlying disease, and arthrocentesis followed by intraarticular glucocorticoid injection. If symptoms persist, direct ultrasound-guided aspiration of the cyst and glucocorticoid injection directly into the cyst can be attempted before considering arthroscopic excision.

Image File: 983-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d934c9ddd.jpg

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - MRI of the right knee** - An MRI of the knee may be considered for further evaluation of patients with popliteal cysts caused by degenerative disease of the knee (e.g., osteoarthritis). This child has an asymptomatic popliteal cyst with no features that suggest degenerative disease (e.g., pain, swelling, decreased range of motion).

**C - Arthroscopic resection** - Arthroscopic resection of a popliteal cyst may be considered in symptomatic patients with an associated history of a traumatic or degenerative knee condition (e.g., meniscal lesion, rheumatoid arthritis). This child most likely has an asymptomatic primary popliteal cyst and does not have a history of intraarticular pathology. Moreover, arthroscopic surgery is not the first-line intervention in children because there is a risk of growth plate damage during the procedure.

**D - Arthrocentesis** - Arthrocentesis followed by intraarticular glucocorticoid injection might be required for symptomatic secondary popliteal cysts, not for asymptomatic primary popliteal cysts. Arthrocentesis also is required for the evaluation of suspected septic arthritis or hemarthrosis. However, this patient is asymptomatic and has no characteristic features of septic arthritis (e.g., fever, joint pain, decreased range of motion) or hemarthrosis (e.g., joint pain, decreased range of motion, history of trauma, history of a bleeding disorder).

**E - Glucocorticoid injection into the swelling** - Ultrasound-guided needle aspiration of the swelling followed by glucocorticoid injection into the swelling might be required for symptomatic secondary popliteal cysts, not for asymptomatic primary popliteal cysts.

**F - Application of a compression knee sleeve** - A compression knee sleeve may be considered for symptom relief in patients with degenerative disease of the knee (e.g., osteoarthritis), which is commonly associated with the development of popliteal cysts in adult patients. This child has an asymptomatic popliteal cyst and no history or symptoms of intraarticular pathology (e.g., pain, swelling, decreased range of motion). A compression knee sleeve has not been shown to effectively treat popliteal cysts.

