### ** Correct Answer: **

**F - Reduce fish intake** - The first conservative measure to prevent gouty arthritis flares is to initiate a purine-restricted diet, which involves limited fish intake and other sources of protein (e.g., red meat). Diets high in protein lead to elevated levels of uric acid, increasing the risk of a gout flare. This patient's alcohol intake is another important contributing factor to his hyperuricemia and should be restricted to prevent recurrence.

Question Difficulty: 5

** Other Answers: **

**A - Discontinue captopril** - This patient should not discontinue captopril because ACE inhibitor therapy has no effect on uric acid levels. Thiazides, another therapy for hypertension, can lead to hyperuricemia and would need to be discontinued.

**B - Start aspirin** - Low-dose aspirin therapy is contraindicated during an acute gout attack because it can delay the excretion of uric acid from the kidneys. In addition, aspirin therapy has no role in preventing gout attacks and it may even contribute to the development of hyperuricemia. Other NSAIDs (e.g., naproxen, indomethacin) can be used to treat an active gout flare in patients who do not have renal or cardiovascular comorbidities.

**C - Replace beer with red wine** - Alcohol in any form increases the risk of developing hyperuricemia and gout attacks by simultaneously increasing the production of uric acid and limiting its excretion. Therefore, complete cessation of alcohol is recommended for patients with acute gouty arthritis.

**D - Stop smoking** - Although all patients are advised to quit smoking, neither smoking nor the nicotine it contains has a role in the excretion or production of uric acid. Smoking cessation will not prevent recurrence of this patient's current symptoms.

**E - Reduce coffee intake** - Coffee intake has been shown to lower uric acid levels, which helps prevent future gout attacks. A reduction in coffee consumption is not recommended in patients with acute gouty arthritis.

**G - Discontinue pravastatin** - Pravastatin therapy has no effect on uric acid levels and therefore should not be discontinued. Niacin, another cholesterol-lowering therapy, can lead to hyperuricemia and would need to be discontinued.

**H - Start colchicine** - Colchicine is commonly used in the acute phase of a gout attack to alleviate symptoms (e.g., joint pain, swelling). However, colchicine primarily inhibits microtubule polymerization and therefore neutrophil chemotaxis and degranulation. It has no role in uric acid production or excretion and is not useful for preventing future attacks.

