### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Reassurance and follow-up** - The genu varum deformity (bow legs) is normal in children ≤ 2 years and typically corrects as the infant learns to walk and bear more weight on the lower extremities. Knee alignment becomes neutral at about 18–24 months of age and turns into a genu valgum deformity (knock-knees), which should resolve by age 5. This 21-month-old's development has been normal thus far, and he has met all the age-appropriate milestones. He has a normal gait and shows no signs or symptoms of an underlying pathological condition, e.g., unilateral deformity, abnormally short stature, fever, or limb swelling. Regular follow-up examinations are recommended to measure the intercondylar distance and to document the expected spontaneous resolution.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Vitamin D supplementation** - Vitamin D supplements are used to treat rickets. While rickets can cause the genu varum deformity, as seen in this patient, as well as the genu valgum deformity, the underlying vitamin D deficiency results in softening of all bones, which leads to delayed closing of the fontanelles, impaired growth (usually < 10th percentile for height), and further bone deformities. This child has closed fontanelles and displays normal growth and development.

**C - Hip abduction brace** - Rigid bracing of the hip in abduction is an appropriate treatment for children < 6 months with developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH). Most cases of DDH are detected during newborn screening or well-child examinations. If left untreated, dysplasia of the hip results in severe gait abnormalities (e.g., Trendelenburg gait), and/or increasing adduction contraction of the hip (coxa vara deformity), with a compensatory genu valgum deformity. However, this boy has an asymptomatic genu varum deformity. Additionally, even if he had DDH, in children > 18 months such as this patient, surgical treatment, and not hip bracing, would be the appropriate treatment.

**D - X-ray of the lower extremities** - In patients with genu varum deformity, an x-ray of the lower extremities is only obtained if pathological varus is suspected. It can help to determine the underlying disease, showing evidence of Blount disease, rickets, skeletal deformities (e.g., developmental dysplasia of the hip), or a neoplasm of the leg. However, this 21-month-old has shown normal signs of development thus far, has no gait abnormalities, and shows no signs or symptoms of an underlying pathological condition, e.g., unilateral deformity, abnormally short stature (i.e., < 25th percentile), fever, or limb swelling.

Image File: 985-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_589c2f66a7855.jpg

**E - Bracing of the lower extremities** - Bracing of the lower extremities is the appropriate treatment for children with Blount disease. Though Blount disease can also manifest with bow legs that become apparent once the child starts walking, it can usually be differentiated from physiological varus deformity during physical examination, as it manifests in a lateral thrusting gait (i.e., the knee of the affected leg shifts outward each time weight is placed on it) and internal rotation at the proximal tibial metaphysis (palpable prominence). This child does not have a proximal tibial deformity and he has a normal gait, making Blount disease unlikely.

**F - Hemiepiphysiodesis** - Hemiepiphysiodesis is a surgical treatment option reserved for children with a persistent pathologic genu varum deformity despite appropriate medical management (e.g., after vitamin D supplementation in a child with rickets). It enables guided growth by selectively interrupting the growth plate unilaterally. However, this 21-month-old child has no signs or symptoms indicating a pathologic genu varum deformity (e.g., unilateral deformity, abnormally short stature, fever, or limb swelling).

**G - Tibial osteotomy** - Tibial osteotomy is a treatment option reserved for children with a persistent pathological genu varum deformity despite appropriate medical management (e.g., after vitamin D supplementation in a child with rickets). However, this 21-month-old child has no signs or symptoms indicating a pathological genu varum deformity (e.g., unilateral deformity, abnormally short stature, fever, or limb swelling).

**H - Bone biopsy** - A biopsy of the bone might be indicated in patients with clinical features and/or imaging suggesting a bone tumor (e.g., Ewing sarcoma, osteosarcoma). Rarely, a neoplasm can cause asymmetric bone growth, manifesting as a unilateral (rather than bilateral) varus or valgus deformity. Usually, malignant bone tumors are associated with localized bone pain, swelling, and, in some cases, fever and/or night sweats. However, this child has an asymptomatic bilateral genu varum deformity. Additionally, if a bone tumor were suspected, an x-ray would be the initial test of choice and would be performed prior to biopsy.

