### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Rest, compression bandage, and cooling** - Ankle sprains are most commonly due to injury of the anterior talofibular ligament after excessive inversion of the foot. Rest, ice, compression, and elevation (RICE), with NSAIDs for analgesia, is the conservative treatment for acute ankle sprains. Patients should resume using the ankle and perform functional rehabilitation exercises as soon as pain and swelling have subsided. Conservative treatment is indicated in patients with normal x-rays or who do not qualify for imaging according to the Ottawa ankle rules (i.e., patients able to bear weight and without point tenderness at the posterior edge or tip of the lateral or medial malleolus), such as this patient.

If ankle instability or severe pain is present, a cast boot or short leg cast can be considered for a few days. Surgery may be indicated for severe ankle sprains (ligament rupture), especially in patients who are likely to experience continuous stress on the ankle joint, such as professional athletes.

Question Difficulty: 2

** Other Answers: **

**B - Surgical reconstruction of ankle ligaments** - Surgical reconstruction of ankle ligaments may be considered in patients with chronic ankle instability, as evidenced by recurrent ankle sprains, or in patients with a complete tear of the ligament who are likely to experience continuous stress at the ankle joint (e.g., professional athletes). This patient does not experience recurrent ankle sprains and has no signs of a ruptured ligament (e.g., ecchymosis, ankle instability, inability to bear weight).

**C - MRI of the ankle** - An MRI of the ankle is used to assess ankle sprains that do not respond to conservative therapy (i.e., pain persists after 6–8 weeks). This patient is only 4 days post-injury and in the acute setting an MRI has no advantage over x-rays.

**D - Leg cast to immobilize the ankle** - A leg cast is used to immobilize the ankle in patients who have an ankle fracture or an ankle sprain with severe pain and ankle instability (grade III sprain). Usually, these patients cannot bear weight on the affected ankle. This patient, however, has been able to bear weight for the past 4 days. Moreover, an ankle fracture or grade III sprain manifests with severe pain, swelling, ecchymosis, ankle instability, and tenderness along the malleolus, whereas this patient only has moderate swelling, no ecchymosis, and a stable ankle joint.

**E - X-ray of the ankle** - The Ottawa rules are used to determine whether a patient with foot pain requires an x-ray. Imaging is indicated for patients who are unable to bear weight on the affected foot or have tenderness at the posterior edge of the medial or lateral malleolus. As this patient is able to bear weight and pain is localized to the anterior edge of the malleolus, x-rays are not indicated.

