### ** Correct Answer: **

**A - Limb-length discrepancy** - The distal tibial physis is responsible for a substantial portion of tibial growth until physeal closure, which typically occurs at 12–17 years of age in women and 15–20 years of age in men. Salter-Harris fractures, which most often occur at the onset of puberty or during growth spurts, can lead to premature closure of the physis, placing individuals at risk for persistent limb-length discrepancy. Premature physeal closure is more likely to occur in Salter-Harris type III and IV fractures. Salter-Harris fractures can be managed with closed reduction and immobilization for nondisplaced fractures (typically types I and II) or open reduction and internal fixation for dislocated fractures (typically types III and IV).

Image File: 992-A
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5fc7aee789f62.jpg

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**B - Superficial peroneal nerve injury** - Injury to the superficial peroneal nerve may occur as a result of a fracture, during surgery, or by compression at the fibular head (e.g., from a tightly applied cast or sitting cross-legged). Nerve injury at the time of fracture, however, typically occurs in lateral ankle or fibular fractures and manifests with an abnormal neurologic examination on presentation (e.g., dorsal foot paresthesia, foot drop, steppage gait). Furthermore, although this patient will require surgery and casting for his Salter-Harris type III fracture with displaced medial malleolus, the location of the fracture makes another complication more likely.

**C - Complex regional pain syndrome** - Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) can occur following trauma. However, CRPS is a rare complication after an ankle injury and is most common in adults 40–50 years of age and affects women more often than men. Another complication is, therefore, much more likely in this adolescent patient with a Salter-Harris type III fracture.

**D - Osteomyelitis** - Osteomyelitis can occur in the distal tibia following open fractures or surgery and typically manifests with a gradual onset of pain, swelling, or fever, and, eventually, progressive destruction of bone or pathological fractures. Although this patient will likely require surgery, which increases the risk for osteomyelitis, another complication is much more likely.

Image File: 992-D
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d91de95bf.jpg

**E - Recurrent fracture** - Individuals with a previous greenstick fracture are at risk for recurrent fractures. However, greenstick fractures typically occur in the diaphysis of the radius, ulna, or fibula after an axial force to the bone (e.g., fall on an outstretched hand). Moreover, greenstick fractures usually occur in children ≤ 10 years of age, and x-rays typically show minimal angulation with disruption and bulging of the cortex on the side of the compressive force (concave side) and an intact convex side. Recurrent fractures are not a common complication of Salter-Harris type III fractures.

Image File: 992-E
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_5081d90aea64c.jpg

