### ** Correct Answer: **

**B - Perform an x-ray of the ankle** - Pain over the tip of the malleolus and the inability to bear weight following an acute ankle injury should raise suspicion for a fracture, and an x-ray should be performed. To determine whether an x-ray is indicated in ankle injuries, providers in the emergency room or doctor's office use the Ottawa ankle rules, which are highly sensitive for excluding fractures. The Ottawa ankle rules state that a plain radiograph of the ankle is indicated if there is tenderness at the posterior border or tip of either the medial or lateral malleolus, or if the patient is unable to bear weight, which is defined as the inability to take four steps or transfer weight to each foot twice. Regardless of whether a fracture is detected, RICE (rest, ice, compression, and elevation) is integral to the initial management of ankle injuries.

Question Difficulty: 1

** Other Answers: **

**A - Place a semi-rigid ankle support** - Ankle support (e.g., semi-rigid ankle support, elastic wrap with a pneumatic walking boot) is indicated for patients with moderate grade II sprains, defined as an incomplete ligament injury with restricted range of motion, painful ambulation, and mild to moderate joint instability. However, as this patient also fulfills the criteria for suspected fracture according to the Ottawa ankle rules, a different step in management should be performed first.

**C - Place a short-leg cast** - A short-leg cast is indicated in stable ankle fractures for 4–6 weeks and for severe, grade III ankle sprains, both of which typically manifest with malleolar pain, swelling, and tenderness. However, unstable ankle fractures (i.e., posterior malleolus, bimalleolar, trimalleolar fractures) require surgical stabilization. Therefore, the diagnosis should be confirmed before treatment is initiated.

**D - Perform an MRI of the ankle** - An MRI of the ankle is indicated after acute injury if pain persists for over six weeks after initial, conventional treatment. While MRI is favored for detecting soft tissue injury (e.g., syndesmosis injury), it has not been shown to be better than plain radiography at detecting bony fractures in patients with acute injuries. Furthermore, if a fracture is suspected and a plain radiograph is inconclusive, a CT scan of the ankle is the preferred imaging modality.

**E - Apply an elastic bandage** - Elastic bandages are indicated in ankle injuries as part of the RICE (rest, ice, compression, and elevation) principles and should be applied early after injury to minimize swelling. They can also be used in combination with another form of ankle support (e.g., pneumatic walking boot) to stabilize moderate ankle sprains with ligamentous injury. However, in a patient who meets the Ottawa ankle rules criteria (i.e., malleolar pain and tenderness, inability to bear weight), a fracture should be ruled out first.

