### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - C** - Severe vitamin D deficiency can lead to hypocalcemia and hypophosphatemia by decreasing the amount of calcium and phosphate absorption in the intestine. As long as calcium levels are low, increased PTH secretion occurs in an attempt to maintain normal serum calcium levels (secondary hyperparathyroidism). PTH releases calcium stored in bone into serum by increasing bone turnover, which the elevated ALP levels (a marker of bone turnover) indicate here. Increased PTH levels also worsen hypophosphatemia by decreasing renal phosphate reabsorption.

Question Difficulty: 4

** Other Answers: **

**A - A** - Normal calcium, phosphorus, PTH, and ALP levels in an elderly female patient with bone pain are characteristic of osteoporosis. Osteoporosis would result in cortical thinning and increased radiolucency due to decreased bone density. However, bone sclerosis would not be expected, and the bone would be diffusely radiolucent, in contrast to the osteolytic lesions seen in this patient, which have a distinctive transverse band-like appearance on x-ray. Moreover, osteoporosis would not explain the myopathic weakness seen here.

**B - B** - High serum ALP and normal calcium, phosphorus, and PTH levels in an elderly patient with bone pain are characteristic of Paget disease of the bone (PDB). However, while PDB lesions can have a mixed lytic (radiolucent) and sclerotic appearance, they typically appear as lytic lesions within a background of diffuse sclerosis. Furthermore, a thin cortex would not be seen in PDB.

Image File: 996-B
Image URL: https://media-us.amboss.com/media/thumbs/big_602f844a15020.jpg

**D - D** - Decreased phosphate and increased calcium, ALP, and PTH levels are characteristic of primary hyperparathyroidism, which typically occurs in elderly women and causes bone pain. A pelvic x-ray in a patient with primary hyperparathyroidism can show cortical thinning as well as focal osteolytic lesions. However, the osteolytic lesions in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism are usually round/polygonal circumscribed lesions rather than the distinctive transverse band-like lesions seen here.

**E - E** - Bone pain with decreased calcium and increased phosphate, ALP, and PTH levels can be seen in patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism due to ESRD (renal osteodystrophy), as well as in patients with pseudohypoparathyroidism (PHP). Also, patients with PHP or renal osteodystrophy can have muscle weakness (due to myopathy) and radiological features of osteomalacia such as Looser zones, as seen here. However, renal osteodystrophy would not occur until the very late stage of CKD (i.e., when renal replacement therapy is required). PHP, on the other hand, would typically manifest during childhood with features of Albright hereditary osteodystrophy (e.g., short stature, round face, obesity, short fourth metacarpals, soft tissue calcifications, dental hypoplasia).

**F - F** - Osteolytic metastases, which appear as radiolucent lesions, can result in increased calcium, phosphorus, and ALP levels, together with decreased PTH levels. Bone metastases should be considered in any elderly patient with bone pain even if the primary tumor is not clinically evident. Hypercalcemia could also explain muscle weakness in this patient. However, the transverse band-like appearance of the radiolucent lesions in this woman suggests a different diagnosis, as osteolytic metastases usually appear as ill-defined, round lesions on x-ray.

**G - G** - Decreased calcium and PTH levels with normal serum ALP levels and increased phosphate are consistent with primary hypoparathyroidism, which can result in decreased muscle strength. However, features of bone disease are usually absent in patients with primary hypoparathyroidism. Moreover, in adults, primary hypoparathyroidism is typically caused by iatrogenic damage to the parathyroid glands during neck surgery (e.g., thyroidectomy) or neck irradiation.

