### ** Correct Answer: **

**C - X-ray of the cervical spine** - X-ray of the cervical spine is recommended for diagnosing cervical involvement in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, which may cause atlantoaxial and subaxial subluxation and should be considered given her neck pain.

Question Difficulty: 3

** Other Answers: **

**A - Arthrocentesis** - Arthrocentesis may be used as part of the workup of rheumatoid arthritis to rule out differentials such as septic arthritis or pseudogout if the diagnosis is not clear. A diagnosis of RA can already be made though.

**B - Adalimumab** - Biologic DMARDs, such as the TNF-α inhibitor adalimumab, may be indicated as additional therapy if patients only have a partial response to non-biologic DMARD therapy. Contraindications to anti-TNF-α treatment (e.g., pregnancy, immunosuppression, TBC) must be ruled out before therapy is initiated.

**D - Measurement of anti-Smith antibodies** - Measurement of anti-Smith antibodies is recommended for the workup of other rheumatic diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) but not for rheumatoid arthritis. SLE presents with some of the features seen in this patient, such as polyarthritis and morning stiffness. Additionally, this patient has a family history of the disease, which increases her risk. However, SLE does not typically lead to positive rheumatoid factors and causes other features that are absent, such as serositis, photosensitivity, malar or discoid rash, fever, and fatigue, making this condition unlikely.

**E - CT scan of the chest** - A CT scan of the chest diagnose potential interstitial pneumonia, which can be a long-term complication of RA. However, this patient does not have signs or symptoms (such as dyspnea) that would suggest lung compromise.

**F - Tuberculin skin test** - A tuberculin skin test must be performed before initiating therapy with biological disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) because such agents cause immunosuppression and may result in reactivation of latent tuberculosis infection. Although biological DMARDs are used for rheumatoid therapy, they are generally not recommended as an initial therapy.

