
### Correct Answer: B) Celecoxib and omeprazole 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent recurrent NSAID-related peptic ulcer disease.

#### **Key Point:** In patients requiring NSAIDs, an evidence-based treatment strategy to prevent recurrent NSAID-induced peptic ulcers is the use of a cyclooxygenase-2 selective NSAID plus a proton pump inhibitor.

Celecoxib plus omeprazole is the most appropriate treatment regimen for this patient. Patients who have bleeding ulcers while taking NSAIDs should discontinue NSAIDs permanently if possible. In cases where this is not possible, strategies to reduce the risk for recurrent bleeding should be instituted. Selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors, such as celecoxib, preferentially inhibit the COX-2 isoenzyme, which primarily modulates pain and inflammation, and minimally inhibit the COX-1 isoenzyme, which promotes generation of the gastric mucosal protective barrier, decreases gastric acid secretion, and helps to maintain good mucosal blood flow. The risk for gastroduodenal ulcers and ulcer complications is significantly lower in patients taking COX-2 inhibitors compared with nonselective NSAIDs such as naproxen; however, in high-risk patients, such as those with previous peptic ulcer disease, a COX-2 inhibitor alone is no better than a nonselective NSAID coadministered with a proton pump inhibitor in preventing ulcer complications, with rebleeding rates of approximately 4% to 6% within 6 months.
A single 12-month randomized study showed an ulcer rebleeding rate of 0% in patients treated with celecoxib plus omeprazole compared with 9% in patients treated with a celecoxib alone. A direct comparison of naproxen plus omeprazole to celecoxib plus omeprazole in the prevention of NSAID bleeding in high-risk patients has not been performed. There is also evidence that COX-2 inhibitors and nonselective NSAIDs, with the possible exception of naproxen, increase the risk for cardiovascular complications; therefore, the decision to use a COX-2 inhibitor requires a harm-benefit analysis that weighs the gastrointestinal risks of an NSAID with the potential cardiovascular risks of a COX-2 inhibitor.
The use of ibuprofen, a nonselective NSAID, is no safer than the use of naproxen for lessening the likelihood of development of peptic ulcers.
Other gastroprotective agents, such as H2 blockers (including ranitidine) and misoprostol, have been ineffective in preventing NSAID-related peptic ulcers in patients at low or moderate risk; however, their efficacy in high-risk patients (such as this patient with a previous NSAID-induced gastric ulcer) has not been demonstrated. Misoprostol is associated with adverse effects, including diarrhea and abdominal pain. Also, the required twice-daily dosing for ranitidine and four-times-daily dosing for misoprostol may lead to patient nonadherence, which further reduces the efficacy of such therapy.

**Bibliography**

Laine L. CLINICAL PRACTICE. Upper gastrointestinal bleeding due to a peptic ulcer. N Engl J Med. 2016;374:2367-76. PMID: 27305194 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp1514257

This content was last updated in August 2018.