
### Correct Answer: D) 10 years 

**Educational Objective:** Manage follow-up colonoscopy for hyperplastic polyps.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with small (&lt;10 mm) hyperplastic polyps on baseline colonoscopic examination should undergo surveillance colonoscopy in 10 years.

This patient should undergo colonoscopy in 10 years. Serrated polyps are classified into three histologic types: hyperplastic polyps, sessile serrated polyps, and traditional serrated adenomas. Hyperplastic polyps are the most common type of serrated polyp. They are non-neoplastic and are composed of normal mucosal elements; small hyperplastic polyps, often found in the rectosigmoid colon, are believed to have no clinical significance. As a result, the interval until the next screening examination is 10 years, the same as for patients who do not have polyps found on baseline examination. Sessile serrated polyps (also known as sessile serrated adenomas) and traditional serrated adenomas are both neoplastic and are precursors to colorectal cancer; they should be completely excised. Substantial variability has been demonstrated in the ability of a pathologist to differentiate a hyperplastic polyp from a sessile serrated polyp; therefore, guidelines recommend managing large (>10 mm) hyperplastic polyps as if they are sessile serrated polyps.
The patient's family history of a second-degree relative with colon cancer diagnosed at age 80 years does not increase her risk for colon cancer or indicate the need for more frequent or early colonoscopy.
A 1-year surveillance interval is not appropriate for this patient. It is indicated in patients with more than 10 adenomas found on colonoscopy, those with a diagnosed polyposis syndrome, or those with Lynch syndrome. Lynch syndrome is the term used to describe patients who meet the Amsterdam II criteria for hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer and have an identified germline mutation in one of the four mismatch repair genes (MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2) or the epithelial cell adhesion molecule gene (EPCAM).
A 3-year surveillance interval is recommended for patients who have three or more adenomas (or sessile serrated polyps) found on baseline colonoscopy, one adenoma larger than 10 mm in size, or an adenoma with any degree of villous or high-grade dysplasia.
A surveillance interval of 5 years is recommended for patients with two or fewer adenomas (or sessile serrated polyps) found on baseline colonoscopy and for patients with a first-degree relative with colon cancer diagnosed at an age younger than 60 years. Sessile serrated polyps are more frequently found in the proximal colon and may be difficult to detect on colonoscopy due to their flat appearance. Like tubular adenomas, surveillance colonoscopy is based on size and presence of dysplasia.

**Bibliography**

Lieberman DA, Rex DK, Winawer SJ, Giardiello FM, Johnson DA, Levin TR; United States Multi-Society Task Force on Colorectal Cancer. Guidelines for colonoscopy surveillance after screening and polypectomy: a consensus update by the US Multi-Society Task Force on Colorectal Cancer. Gastroenterology. 2012;143:844-57. PMID: 22763141 doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2012.06.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.