
### Correct Answer: B) Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography 

**Educational Objective:** Treat acute cholangitis with biliary obstruction.

#### **Key Point:** Patients who have cholangitis with evidence of biliary obstruction should be treated with antibiotic therapy and biliary decompression with endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography.

Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is the most appropriate next step in the management of this patient. The patient presents with the Charcot triad of symptoms—fever, abdominal pain in the right upper quadrant, and jaundice—which is consistent with a diagnosis of cholangitis. In patients with evidence of biliary obstruction (as seen in this patient's findings on ultrasonography) and more than mild disease, biliary decompression with ERCP is an essential component of therapy. Obstruction is typically indicated by a dilated bile duct and persistently elevated liver enzyme levels. Indications for urgent ERCP include ongoing septic physiology (persistently elevated leukocyte count and temperature greater than 38.9 °C [102 °F]) despite resuscitative measures and antibiotics, hyperbilirubinemia (>5 mg/dL [85.5 µmol/L]), and altered mental status, which may also herald a worsened prognosis. Elective cholecystectomy should also be performed within 2 weeks to reduce the risk for complications.
When duct decompression with ERCP is not possible, percutaneous cholangiography with biliary tube placement can be performed. Most patients with cholangitis also have cholelithiasis, elevated aminotransferase levels, and hyperbilirubinemia. Acute cholangitis is usually caused by Escherichia coli, Klebsiella species, Pseudomonas species, and enterococci and can progress to septic shock with or without liver abscess formation. The mainstay of therapy for cholangitis is the initiation of antibiotic therapy targeting enteric organisms; for mild to moderate community-acquired disease, options include cefazolin, cefuroxime, or ceftriaxone.
Patients who have complicated gallstone disease with evidence of choledocholithiasis should be considered for cholecystectomy; however, in the acute setting, this intervention should be deferred until after antibiotic therapy and biliary decompression with ERCP. Cholecystectomy will remove the source of future gallstones, but it will not decompress this patient's obstructed common bile duct or reduce the risk for sepsis.
MR cholangiopancreatography is a diagnostic test that is unlikely to yield additional information other than what this patient's ultrasound has already shown. In this patient with a very high likelihood of finding a common bile duct stone, a therapeutic procedure such as ERCP is more appropriate.
A percutaneous cholecystostomy can be used to treat cholecystitis, but in the setting of cholangitis, as in this patient, percutaneous cholecystostomy would not necessarily provide decompression of the biliary obstruction if the bile duct is obstructed above the insertion point of the cystic duct. Due to their higher rates of morbidity, percutaneous approaches to decompression of the biliary system should only be considered if endoscopic approaches are unavailable or contraindicated.

**Bibliography**

Demehri FR, Alam HB. Evidence-based management of common gallstone-related emergencies. J Intensive Care Med. 2016;31:3-13. PMID: 25320159 doi:10.1177/0885066614554192

This content was last updated in September 2019.