
### Correct Answer: B) Microscopic colitis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose microscopic colitis.

#### **Key Point:** Microscopic colitis is a cause of nonbloody, watery diarrhea in older adults and is diagnosed by colonoscopy with random biopsies from multiple colonic segments.

Based on the patient's age, sex, and clinical presentation, microscopic colitis is the most likely diagnosis. Microscopic colitis is the underlying cause in 10% to 15% of patients with chronic, watery diarrhea. In contrast to inflammatory bowel disease, microscopic colitis is more common in older persons and does not cause endoscopically visible inflammation. The symptoms of microscopic colitis are similar to other chronic causes of nonbloody diarrhea, such as celiac disease and irritable bowel syndrome; therefore, colonic mucosal biopsies are required for diagnosis. Lymphocytic and collagenous colitis are the two subtypes of microscopic colitis, and they are distinguishable only by histology. Random biopsies from multiple colonic segments, including the right and left colon, are recommended to establish the diagnosis because the disease can be patchy. In some patients, certain medications (such as NSAIDs and proton pump inhibitors) have been implicated as causative agents. Microscopic colitis is associated with other autoimmune diseases such as diabetes mellitus and psoriasis. The association with celiac disease is of particular clinical importance because the symptoms of these conditions are similar. Therefore, in patients with celiac disease or microscopic colitis whose symptoms do not respond to appropriate therapy, the other condition must be ruled out.
Giardia lamblia is a common infectious cause of persistent diarrhea in immunocompetent patients in developed countries and should be considered in patients with exposure to young children or potentially contaminated water, such as lakes and streams. This patient has no risk factors for Giardia infection.
Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) causes diarrhea, often with bloating, flatulence, and weight loss. Several conditions can predispose patients to SIBO due to effects on stomach acid, intestinal transit, or disruption of normal antibacterial defense mechanisms. Gastric bypass surgery is an increasingly common cause of SIBO. The absence of malabsorption symptoms and weight loss make this diagnosis unlikely.
Ulcerative colitis typically presents with bloody diarrhea and abdominal discomfort, the severity of which is related to the extent and severity of inflammation. Because ulcerative colitis typically involves the rectum, patients with this condition commonly present with tenesmus, urgency, rectal pain, and fecal incontinence. Some patients with distal inflammation can present with constipation owing to rectal spasm and stasis of stool. Fever and weight loss suggest severe disease. The patient's symptoms are not typical for ulcerative colitis.

**Bibliography**

Pardi DS. Diagnosis and management of microscopic colitis. Am J Gastroenterol. 2017;112:78-85. PMID: 27897155 doi:10.1038/ajg.2016.477

This content was last updated in September 2019.