
### Correct Answer: D) Prednisone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat autoimmune pancreatitis.

#### **Key Point:** Almost all patients (&gt;90%) with autoimmune pancreatitis enter clinical remission in response to glucocorticoids.

Prednisone is the most appropriate treatment for this patient. Based on his typical symptom of painless jaundice and the characteristic “sausage-shaped” pancreas on imaging, the patient has type 1 autoimmune pancreatitis, a frequent manifestation of IgG4 disease. He also has associated IgG4-related conditions, sialadenitis, and probable retroperitoneal fibrosis. Autoimmune pancreatitis is rare and has an unclear pathogenesis. Type 1 autoimmune pancreatitis is a systemic fibroinflammatory disease, defined as an inflammatory condition causing tissue damage and scarring. Pancreatic involvement is only one manifestation of IgG4 disease, which is characterized by abundant IgG4-producing plasma cells seen on tissue biopsy. Most IgG4-related conditions are characterized by plasma-cell infiltration of the affected tissue and the clinical consequences that infiltration entails. Almost any organ can be involved; lymph nodes are frequently affected. The initial treatment is oral prednisone with a taper over 2 to 3 months, and symptoms usually resolve within 2 to 4 weeks with treatment. Almost all patients (>90%) enter clinical remission in response to glucocorticoids. Treatment response may be limited by the amount of fibrosis present before initiation of therapy. The relapse rate is approximately 30% in type 1 autoimmune pancreatitis.
Azathioprine is an immunosuppressive drug that has been used to treat relapsing IgG4-related disease and can be used as a glucocorticoid-sparing agent. It may take 6 to 8 weeks to reach a therapeutic drug level and provoke a clinical response. Therefore, it is not considered initial first-line therapy for symptomatic IgG4-related disease.
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography with bile-duct stenting is usually not required in patients with autoimmune pancreatitis because most patients' symptoms respond quickly to oral prednisone. Glucocorticoid therapy also treats the underlying immunologic disorder, making it the preferred first-line treatment.
Pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple surgery) is not indicated in patients with autoimmune pancreatitis. It may be considered to treat pancreatic adenocarcinoma occurring in the head of the pancreas, which can be mistaken for autoimmune pancreatitis. Because this patient's histology findings confirm IgG4-related disease, a trial of immunosuppressive therapy is the most appropriate treatment.

**Bibliography**

Okazaki K, Uchida K. Autoimmune pancreatitis: the past, present, and future. Pancreas. 2015;44:1006-16. PMID: 26355544 doi:10.1097/MPA.0000000000000382

This content was last updated in August 2018.