
### Correct Answer: D) Repeat liver chemistry tests in 6 months 

**Educational Objective:** Manage the immune-tolerant phase of hepatitis B viral infection.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with hepatitis B infection in the immune-tolerant phase require serial monitoring of aminotransferase levels.

Repeat liver chemistry testing in 6 months is the most appropriate next step in the management of this patient. The patient has hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in the immune-tolerant phase, which can be determined by the likely vertical transmission and the patient's young age, positive hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg), high viral load, and normal aminotransferase levels. Therefore, the patient only requires serial monitoring of aminotransferase levels. There are four typical phases of HBV infection: (1) immune tolerant, (2) immune active, (3) immune control (inactive), and (4) reactivation. Not all patients go through each phase. Patients with infection in the immune-tolerant phase do not have significant hepatic inflammation and have no fibrosis, and, therefore, do not require treatment. However, infection can progress to the immune-active, HBeAg-positive phase, in which hepatic inflammation, elevated aminotransferase levels, and fibrosis develop, underscoring the need for surveillance of aminotransferase levels.
Patients with HBV infection in the immune-active, HBeAg-positive and reactivation, HBeAg-negative phases require treatment if the alanine aminotransferase level is elevated. Antiviral therapy is also required for patients who present with acute liver failure, all patients with cirrhosis, and patients undergoing treatment with certain immunosuppressive or chemotherapy regimens. None of these scenarios apply to this patient, so she does not require antiviral treatment such as tenofovir, entecavir, or pegylated interferon.
Patients with HBV infection are at increased risk for hepatocellular carcinoma, even in the absence of cirrhosis. Patients from Southeast Asia should undergo hepatocellular carcinoma surveillance with ultrasonography starting at age 40 years for men and at age 50 years for women, and patients from sub-Saharan Africa should begin at age 20 years. Other indications include persistent inflammatory activity (defined as an elevated alanine aminotransferase level and HBV DNA levels greater than 10,000 IU/mL for at least a few years) and a family history of hepatocellular carcinoma. The preferred surveillance strategy is liver ultrasonography with or without α-fetoprotein measurement. This patient is not yet old enough to warrant hepatocellular carcinoma surveillance, so hepatic ultrasonography is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Terrault NA, Bzowej NH, Chang KM, Hwang JP, Jonas MM, Murad MH; American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases. AASLD guidelines for treatment of chronic hepatitis B. Hepatology. 2016;63:261-83. PMID: 26566064 doi:10.1002/hep.28156

This content was last updated in May 2019.