
### Correct Answer: B) Laparoscopic cholecystectomy before discharge from the hospital 

**Educational Objective:** Treat gallstone pancreatitis with prompt cholecystectomy.

#### **Key Point:** Same-admission cholecystectomy reduces rates of gallstone-related complications compared with cholecystectomy after hospital discharge for patients with mild gallstone pancreatitis.

Laparoscopic cholecystectomy before discharge from the hospital is the most appropriate treatment. Gallstone acute pancreatitis can be diagnosed based on elevated liver transaminases on presentation, a lipase level elevated to more than three times the upper limit of normal, characteristic severe abdominal pain, and ultrasonographic evidence of cholelithiasis. This patient showed clinical improvement within 3 days of hospitalization. Her laboratory values have normalized, suggesting spontaneous passage of a gallstone through the common bile duct, which occurs in most patients with gallstone pancreatitis. In a multicenter randomized controlled trial, same-admission cholecystectomy reduced rates of gallstone-related complications compared with interval cholecystectomy 25 to 30 days after hospital discharge for patients with mild gallstone pancreatitis.
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is indicated urgently for patients with acute pancreatitis and ascending cholangitis (fever, abdominal pain, and jaundice) due to choledocholithiasis. If there is evidence of ongoing biliary obstruction in patients hospitalized with acute pancreatitis, ERCP may be indicated to remove a retained gallstone from the common bile duct. This patient's symptoms and laboratory abnormalities resolved quickly, which supports the spontaneous passage of a gallstone without evidence of ongoing biliary obstruction.
MR cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) can be used to identify causes of biliary obstruction. MRCP is not needed in this patient because she has normal-caliber bile ducts on abdominal ultrasonography and normal liver chemistry test results, indicating that a biliary obstruction is unlikely.
Ursodeoxycholic acid has been used to medically dissolve small cholesterol gallstones in patients who are not candidates for surgery. The medication works slowly and may take longer than 1 year to dissolve small stones, leaving patients at risk for recurrent attacks of gallstone pancreatitis or other gallstone-related complications. This patient is young and without comorbidities, making surgery a more appropriate treatment.

**Bibliography**

da Costa DW, Bouwense SA, Schepers NJ, Besselink MG, van Santvoort HC, van Brunschot S, et al; Dutch Pancreatitis Study Group. Same-admission versus interval cholecystectomy for mild gallstone pancreatitis (PONCHO): a multicentre randomised controlled trial. Lancet. 2015;386:1261-8. PMID: 26460661 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(15)00274-3

This content was last updated in September 2019.