
### Correct Answer: D) Narcotic bowel syndrome 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose narcotic bowel syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Narcotic bowel syndrome, also known as opiate-induced gastrointestinal hyperalgesia, is a centrally mediated disorder of gastrointestinal pain characterized by a paradoxical increase in abdominal pain with increasing doses of opioids.

Narcotic bowel syndrome is the most likely diagnosis in this patient. Narcotic bowel syndrome, also known as opiate-induced gastrointestinal hyperalgesia, is a centrally mediated disorder of gastrointestinal pain characterized by a paradoxical increase in abdominal pain with increasing doses of narcotics. Many patients are prescribed opioid pain medication for an unrelated medical condition but have increasing pain over time despite clinical evidence of improvement or resolution of the initial condition. Patients often fear tapering off opioids and believe the opioids are the only treatment that alleviates their pain.
Chronic pancreatitis may result from a severe episode of acute pancreatitis or recurrent episodes of acute pancreatitis. It may require opioid pain medication for flares of pain or for constant, daily pain, but the pain is usually relieved with opioids. This patient only had one episode of uncomplicated pancreatitis and has no other risk factors for chronic pancreatitis and no evidence of chronic pancreatitis (pancreatic calcifications) on abdominal imaging.
Distal intestinal obstruction syndrome is caused by thickened intestinal contents that completely or partially block the small intestinal lumen in patients with cystic fibrosis. It is characterized by progressive, crampy abdominal pain in the right lower quadrant, sometimes progressing to vomiting. This patient has no history of cystic fibrosis and no symptoms of a small-bowel obstruction making this an unlikely diagnosis.
The diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome is typically made in the presence of recurrent abdominal pain or discomfort at least 3 days per month in the last 3 months that is associated with two or more of the following: relief with defecation, onset associated with a change in frequency of stool, or onset associated with a change in form (appearance) of stool. While this patient has abdominal pain and constipation, her symptoms are worsened with eating, not relieved with defecation, and the onset of pain is clearly tied to an acute abdominal diagnosis and treatment with an opioid, making IBS an unlikely diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Keefer L, Drossman DA, Guthrie E, Simrén M, Tillisch K, Olden K, et al. Centrally mediated disorders of gastrointestinal pain. Gastroenterology. 2016. PMID: 27144628 doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2016.02.034

This content was last updated in August 2018.