
### Correct Answer: A) Entecavir 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hepatitis B virus–related polyarteritis nodosa.

#### **Key Point:** Mild hepatitis B virus–related polyarteritis nodosa is treated with antiviral agents.

The most appropriate treatment is entecavir. Hepatitis B virus (HBV)–related polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is the most likely diagnosis in this patient. The patient has fever, arthralgia, and evidence of cutaneous vasculitis (rash). There is also evidence of hepatitis (elevated bilirubin and aminotransferase levels) likely related to his use of intravenous drugs. Testing for hepatitis B surface antigen and hepatitis B e antigen is positive, as is IgM antibody to hepatitis B core antigen, with a significant HBV DNA viral load; all of these results are consistent with a recent HBV infection. PAN and mixed cryoglobulinemia are rare HBV-associated vasculitides. This patient has undetectable serum cryoglobulins, excluding the diagnosis of mixed cryoglobulinemia. There are no data from randomized trials to guide therapy in patients with HBV-related PAN. Patients with HBV infection and mild manifestations of PAN are usually treated with antiviral agents such as entecavir. Patients (such as this one) with mild PAN have constitutional symptoms, arthritis or arthralgia, anemia, and skin lesions. More severe disease is characterized by organ dysfunction (for example, myocarditis, kidney insufficiency and hypertension, mononeuritis multiplex) or life-threatening systemic manifestations. Patients with severe manifestations of PAN are often treated with an antiviral agent and a short course of prednisone and plasma exchange.
Prednisone and cyclophosphamide are agents typically used to treat mild and severe manifestations of idiopathic PAN, the most commonly recognized form of PAN. Because this patient has HBV-related PAN, treating the causative viral infection with an antiviral agent is the preferred management.
Sofosbuvir and ledipasvir are direct-acting antiviral agents used to treat hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection and would be an appropriate choice for mild HCV-related PAN. However, this patient's hepatitis C antibody is negative and these agents are not indicated.
Tenofovir, emtricitabine, and raltegravir are used to treat HIV infection. This drug combination would be an appropriate choice for HIV-related PAN, but the patient's HIV test is negative and these agents are not indicated. Tenofovir alone would be a reasonable treatment for this patient.

**Bibliography**

Forbess L, Bannykh S. Polyarteritis nodosa. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 2015;41:33-46, vii. PMID: 25399938 doi:10.1016/j.rdc.2014.09.005

This content was last updated in August 2018.