
### Correct Answer: A) Initiate enteral feeding 

**Educational Objective:** Treat acute necrotic pancreatitis with enteral feeding.

#### **Key Point:** Enteral nutrition is preferred in patients with acute pancreatitis because of the benefit of maintaining a healthy gut mucosal barrier to prevent translocation of bacteria.

Placement of a nasoenteric tube for enteral feeding is the most appropriate next step in this patient's management. The patient has taken nothing by mouth (NPO) since hospitalization 4 days earlier and requires nutritional support. She continues to have abdominal pain requiring intravenous opioid pain medication, as well as nausea and no appetite. Enteral nutrition is preferred in patients with acute pancreatitis because of the benefit of maintaining a healthy mucosal barrier in the gut to prevent translocation of bacteria. Both nasogastric and nasojejunal enteral feeding are safe and have comparable effectiveness. Studies show nasogastric tube feeding is well tolerated in these patients, and placement of a nasogastric tube may be easier, more cost effective, and faster than placement of a nasojejunal tube.
Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) is discouraged in patients with acute pancreatitis because the mucosal barrier is not maintained when patients are NPO for prolonged periods, which may lead to higher rates of bacterial translocation into necrotic pancreatic tissue. TPN also increases the risk for bacterial and fungal bloodstream infections, as well as venous thrombosis associated with more proximal indwelling intravenous catheters required for TPN administration.
Cholecystectomy will not be an option for this patient in the near future (likely not during this hospitalization) because she has severe necrotic acute pancreatitis. Maintaining NPO status for a prolonged period of time before surgery is not appropriate clinical management of her nutritional needs.
There are no data to support withholding feeding in patients with acute pancreatitis based on enzyme levels. Lipase levels three to five times the upper level of normal are used as diagnostic criteria for acute pancreatitis but have no impact on clinical management decisions.

**Bibliography**

Forsmark CE, Vege SS, Wilcox CM. Acute pancreatitis. N Engl J Med. 2016;375:1972-1981. PMID: 27959604

This content was last updated in August 2018.