
### Correct Answer: A) Dumping syndrome 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose dumping syndrome after gastrojejunostomy.

#### **Key Point:** Rapid gastric emptying of hyperosmolar chyme into the small intestine after partial gastric resection can lead to postprandial vasomotor symptoms, abdominal pain, and diarrhea, collectively known as dumping syndrome.

Dumping syndrome is the most likely diagnosis in this patient. Rapid gastric emptying of hyperosmolar chyme into the small intestine after partial gastric resection can lead to postprandial vasomotor symptoms known as dumping syndrome. This patient had a gastrojejunostomy 1 year earlier, and her symptoms started after the surgery. Common early symptoms of dumping symptoms are palpitations, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and lightheadedness with abdominal pain and diarrhea presenting within 30 minutes of eating. Late symptoms can occur 1 to 3 hours after eating in 25% of patients and include sweating, tremor, hunger, and difficulty with concentration and cognition (hypoglycemia). A minority of patients have both early and late symptoms. The diagnosis is usually made based on clinical findings. Initial treatment for dumping syndrome is dietary: eating small frequent meals and saving liquids until after a meal, which this patient has already found to help her symptoms.
Dumping syndrome is misdiagnosed as gastroparesis in up to 37% of patients. Gastroparesis involves delayed gastric emptying and is typically associated with nausea and vomiting after eating. The prominent vasomotor symptoms this patient describes are uncommon in gastroparesis.
Irritable bowel syndrome is more common in younger patients, and rarely causes weight loss. Symptoms that occur after a gastrointestinal surgery should suggest an alternative diagnosis.
Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) is an excess number and alteration in type of bacteria cultured from the small intestine. Digestive enzymes and intestinal motility normally limit the growth of excessive bacteria, but SIBO can occur in conditions in which these functions are disrupted, including gastrojejunostomy, which creates a blind loop of small intestine. Clinical features of SIBO are diarrhea, bloating, and weight loss. Patients may have a combination of fat, protein, or carbohydrate malabsorption. Unlike in dumping syndrome, symptoms are not immediately related to eating and are not associated with prominent vasomotor symptoms such as palpitations, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and lightheadedness.

**Bibliography**

Berg P, McCallum R. Dumping syndrome: a review of the current concepts of pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment. Dig Dis Sci. 2016;61:11-8. PMID: 26396002 doi:10.1007/s10620-015-3839-x

This content was last updated in August 2018.