
### Correct Answer: D) Do not discontinue aspirin 

**Educational Objective:** Manage aspirin use before and after polypectomy.

#### **Key Point:** Aspirin for secondary prophylaxis in patients with established cardiovascular disease should be continued after colonoscopy with polypectomy.

This patient should not discontinue aspirin use. Aspirin does not need to be discontinued before colonoscopy in any scenario, and data from studies of patients who have undergone polypectomy show no difference in the risk for postprocedure bleeding with discontinuation or continuation of aspirin use. The American College of Gastroenterology's 2016 guidelines for management of lower gastrointestinal bleeding (LGIB) recommend the continuation of aspirin for secondary cardiovascular prophylaxis after polypectomy. Discontinuing aspirin is recommended after polypectomy in patients without established cardiovascular disease who are using aspirin as primary prophylaxis. In patients with established cardiovascular disease, such as this patient, the risks of a potential cardiovascular event outweigh those of potential gastrointestinal bleeding.
Holding aspirin for a period of time after a polypectomy, such as 48 hours, has not been shown to reduce postprocedure LGIB and may increase risk for a thromboembolic event in a patient with established cardiovascular disease.

**Bibliography**

Strate LL, Gralnek IM. ACG clinical guideline: management of patients with acute lower gastrointestinal bleeding. Am J Gastroenterol. 2016;111:459-74. PMID: 26925883 doi:10.1038/ajg.2016.41

This content was last updated in August 2018.