
### Correct Answer: D) Tenofovir 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent vertical transmission of hepatitis B viral infection.

#### **Key Point:** Pregnant women who have hepatitis B virus DNA levels greater than 200,000 IU/mL at 24 to 28 weeks' gestation should be treated with tenofovir to prevent vertical transmission during delivery.

Tenofovir is the most appropriate next step in management of this patient, with the goal of preventing vertical transmission of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection from mother to child during the course of delivery. Guidelines recommend treatment with lamivudine, telbivudine, or tenofovir for the prevention of vertical transmission in pregnant women who have HBV DNA levels greater than 200,000 IU/mL at 24 to 28 weeks' gestation. There are no head-to-head data comparing these regimens, but tenofovir is preferred over telbivudine and lamivudine due to lower rates of resistance. Tenofovir and telbivudine are the only FDA pregnancy category B agents. Lamivudine and other oral drugs used to treat HBV are category C agents, though there are reasonable data on the safety of lamivudine use in pregnancy in the HIV population. Only a few patients will become hepatitis B surface antigen–negative with treatment; therefore, cure of HBV infection is an unrealistic goal for most chronically infected patients.
There are no data suggesting that cesarean delivery is effective at preventing vertical transmission of HBV. All babies born to mothers with chronic HBV infection should receive active HBV vaccination and passive immunization (HBV immune globulin). The risk for developing chronic HBV infection is high (90%) in newborns who acquire HBV.
Because the patient's HBV DNA level is high enough (>200,000 IU/mL) to warrant treatment to prevent vertical transmission of HBV, measuring her HBV DNA level again in 3 months would not be appropriate without first instituting treatment.
Pegylated interferon is not considered safe in pregnancy and, therefore, would be an inappropriate choice for this patient. Pegylated interferon can be used to treat HBV infection in patients with high alanine aminotransferase levels, low HBV DNA levels, and without cirrhosis. Candidates for interferon have a desire for finite therapy, do not have cirrhosis, are not pregnant, and do not have significant psychiatric disease, cardiac disease, seizure disorder, cytopenia, or autoimmune disease.

**Bibliography**

Terrault NA, Bzowej NH, Chang KM, Hwang JP, Jonas MM, Murad MH; American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases. AASLD guidelines for treatment of chronic hepatitis B. Hepatology. 2016;63:261-83. PMID: 26566064 doi:10.1002/hep.28156

This content was last updated in August 2018.