
### Correct Answer: A) CT of the abdomen with contrast 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose pancreatic cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Pancreatic neoplasm must be considered as a cause of acute pancreatitis in patients older than age 40 years when no other cause has been identified and/or when worrisome features, such as weight loss or new onset of diabetes mellitus, are present.

Contrast-enhanced CT of the abdomen is the most appropriate next step in this patient's management. Pancreatic neoplasm must be considered as a cause of acute pancreatitis in patients older than age 40 years when no other cause has been identified and/or when worrisome features such as weight loss or new onset of diabetes mellitus are present. This patient had no identifiable cause and has worrisome features of decreased appetite, back pain, and weight loss. Contrast-enhanced multidetector CT has a 90% sensitivity for detecting malignancy in patients in whom pancreatic cancer is suspected. CT also provides staging information.
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is not appropriate for this patient because laboratory data, abdominal ultrasound, and physical examination show no evidence of biliary obstruction. ERCP may be indicated in patients with biliary obstruction for stenting of the bile duct. This may occur in the setting of a neoplasm in the head of the pancreas.
Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) examination resembles standard endoscopy, but the endoscope has an ultrasound transducer at the tip that emits acoustic waves to the surrounding tissues, allowing for the acquisition of real-time views of the pancreas, bile ducts, and blood vessels. In the diagnosis of pancreatic lesions, EUS is useful for the detection of small tumors that may be below the resolution of the CT scan and allows tissue diagnosis by fine-needle aspiration when required. In patients in whom pancreatic cancer is suspected, contrast-enhanced multidetector CT is the preferred initial diagnostic study.
No further testing is indicated for patients younger than age 40 years who are asymptomatic after treatment for a first case of mild acute pancreatitis in the absence of worrisome features. This patient's age, lack of an identifiable cause, and worrisome clinical features warrant further evaluation rather than continuing current management.

**Bibliography**

Tenner S, Baillie J, DeWitt J, Vege SS; American College of Gastroenterology. American College of Gastroenterology guideline: management of acute pancreatitis. Am J Gastroenterol. 2013;108:1400-15; 1416. PMID: 23896955 doi:10.1038/ajg.2013.218

This content was last updated in August 2018.