
### Correct Answer: A) Restart warfarin therapy now 

**Educational Objective:** Manage antithrombotic therapy after gastrointestinal bleeding.

#### **Key Point:** Once endoscopic hemostasis has been achieved in a patient with gastrointestinal bleeding, anticoagulation should be reinitiated, and in most cases, this can be done on the same day as the procedure.

This patient's warfarin therapy should be restarted now. The risk for warfarin-associated bleeding is determined by the INR, patient comorbid conditions, and duration of therapy. For patients with an INR in or slightly above the therapeutic range (up to 2.7), normalization of the INR does not reduce rebleeding risk but delays endoscopy and decreases the sensitivity of endoscopy to identify important prognostic indicators related to risk for rebleeding. There are few data to guide the clinician's decision of when to resume antithrombotic therapy after gastrointestinal bleeding. In general, once endoscopic hemostasis has been achieved, anticoagulation should be reinitiated, and in most cases, this can be done on the same day as the procedure. After temporary discontinuation of warfarin, antithrombotic therapy should be reinitiated within 7 days of initial drug discontinuation to avoid an increased risk for a thromboembolic event. Hemostasis has been achieved in this patient, with no evidence of ongoing gastrointestinal bleeding seen for 24 hours after the procedure; therefore, it is appropriate to reinitiate warfarin therapy now.
Retrospective studies have shown that resumption of warfarin therapy is associated with a decreased risk for mortality and thrombosis without a significantly increased risk for recurrent hemorrhage in patients with gastrointestinal bleeding. Waiting 10 or 30 days to resume warfarin therapy increases the risk for a thromboembolic event with no reduction in risk for recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding.
This patient's CHA2DS2-VASc (Congestive heart failure, Hypertension, Age ≥75 years, Diabetes mellitus, Stroke or transient ischemic attack or thromboembolism, Vascular disease, Age 65-74 years, Sex category) score is 5, predicting a nearly 7% annual risk for stroke and thromboembolism event at 1-year follow-up evaluation. This is a moderately high annual risk for thromboembolism; therefore, holding warfarin therapy indefinitely is inappropriate.

**Bibliography**

Abraham NS. Management of antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants in patients with gastrointestinal bleeding. Gastrointest Endosc Clin N Am. 2015;25:449-62. PMID: 26142031 doi:10.1016/j.giec.2015.02.002

This content was last updated in August 2018.