
### Correct Answer: D) Pancreatic resection 

**Educational Objective:** Treat main-duct intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm of the pancreas.

#### **Key Point:** Surgical resection is the best management option for high-risk cystic lesions of the pancreas, such as intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms that involve the main duct.

Pancreatic resection is the most appropriate next step in management. Pancreatic cysts are classified as pancreatic cystic neoplasms (the most common), nonneoplastic pancreatic cysts, and pseudocysts. The two most common pancreatic cystic neoplasms are mucinous cystic neoplasms (MCNs) and intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMNs), which involve the main duct, branch ducts, or both. Most pancreatic cysts are branch-duct IPMNs. Main-duct IPMNs can be diagnosed based on diffuse dilation of the main pancreatic duct and the characteristic feature of mucin exuding from the ampulla during endoscopic visualization. Main-duct IPMNs carry a greater than 65% risk for malignant transformation. Surgical resection is the only option for treatment of these high-risk cystic lesions of the pancreas in patients who are appropriate surgical candidates.
Diagnosis of solitary cysts is challenging. It may require endoscopic ultrasonography and fine-needle aspiration to distinguish between cystic neoplasms (branch-duct IPMNs, MCNs, and serous tumors) and pseudocysts based on cytology. This patient has endoscopic ultrasonographic findings showing characteristic features of main-duct IPMN. The best course of action is pancreatic resection and not endoscopic ultrasound surveillance in 1 year.
MRI of the abdomen in 1 year is the standard surveillance recommendation for asymptomatic, low-risk cystic lesions of the pancreas. Main-duct IPMN is considered a high-risk cystic lesion and, therefore, MRI surveillance is not appropriate.
Oral prednisone is used to treat autoimmune pancreatitis, a frequent manifestation of IgG4-related disease. The characteristic finding of autoimmune pancreatitis on imaging is a narrowed main pancreatic duct with parenchymal swelling, known as the “sausage-shaped” pancreas, which is not consistent with this patient's findings.

**Bibliography**

Vege SS, Ziring B, Jain R, Moayyedi P; Clinical Guidelines Committee. American Gastroenterological Association Institute guideline on the diagnosis and management of asymptomatic neoplastic pancreatic cysts. Gastroenterology. 2015;148:819-22; quize12-3. PMID: 25805375 doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2015.01.015

This content was last updated in August 2018.