
### Correct Answer: D) Upper endoscopy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose the cause of hematochezia.

#### **Key Point:** Hematochezia associated with hemodynamic instability in a young patient is likely due to an upper gastrointestinal source.

Upper endoscopy is the most appropriate test to perform next. The patient's presentation is consistent with rapid upper gastrointestinal bleeding (UGIB), likely from an NSAID-induced peptic ulcer. Fifteen percent of patients with presumed lower gastrointestinal bleeding are found to have an upper gastrointestinal source. Factors in this patient that favor a diagnosis of UGIB include young age, hemodynamic instability on presentation, and NSAID use. Approximately 80% of UGIB is due to four causes: peptic ulcer disease, esophagogastric varices, esophagitis, and Mallory-Weiss tear. Bleeding typically stops spontaneously; however, 20% of patients have persistent or recurrent bleeding, which increases mortality. Guidelines recommend upper endoscopy within 24 hours of presentation in patients with features of UGIB.
Angiography is used to diagnose the cause of obscure gastrointestinal bleeding when more common sources are not found on routine upper and lower endoscopy. It is also used for treatment, such as embolization, when a bleeding source has been identified.
Capsule endoscopy employs a wireless capsule camera that is swallowed by the patient to take images of the small bowel. These images are transmitted to a radiofrequency receiver worn by the patient. Capsule endoscopy allows visualization of the entire small bowel. This patient's bleeding is very likely to be accessible by upper endoscopy, the preferred diagnostic test.
Colonoscopy requires bowel preparation for adequate visualization of bleeding sources, and in the setting of acute bleeding with hemodynamic instability, a more urgent diagnostic and therapeutic test is indicated. Colonoscopy would be indicated if the source of bleeding were not identified on upper endoscopy.

**Bibliography**

Strate LL, Gralnek IM. ACG clinical guideline: management of patients with acute lower gastrointestinal bleeding. Am J Gastroenterol. 2016;111:459-74. PMID: 26925883 doi:10.1038/ajg.2016.41

This content was last updated in August 2018.