
### Correct Answer: D) Secretory 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose secretory diarrhea.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with secretory diarrhea may pass liters of stool daily, causing severe dehydration and electrolyte disturbances, with persistent stooling despite fasting.

Secretory diarrhea is the diagnosis most compatible with the patient's presentation. In the evaluation of chronic diarrhea, it is often useful to categorize the condition as secretory or osmotic, as well as to determine whether the cause is due to chronic infection or an inflammatory condition, which will guide further evaluation and treatment. Secretory and osmotic diarrhea can often be distinguished by clinical history. Patients with secretory diarrhea may pass liters of stool daily, causing severe dehydration and electrolyte disturbances, with persistent stooling despite fasting. Patients with osmotic diarrhea often have stool volumes of less than 1 L/d and have cessation of stooling when they are fasting. This patient's large-volume, watery diarrhea that persists despite fasting is compatible with secretory diarrhea. Another clue to this patient's diagnosis is hypokalemia. Hypokalemia from lower-gastrointestinal losses is most common when the losses occur over a prolonged period. Fecal electrolytes can be used to calculate the fecal osmotic gap:
290 – (2 × [stool sodium + stool potassium])
An osmotic gap of less than 50 mOsm/kg suggests secretory diarrhea, and a gap greater than 75 mOsm/kg suggests osmotic diarrhea.
Examples of conditions that can cause a chronic secretory diarrhea include medications (colchicine, NSAIDs), hormone-producing tumors (carcinoid, gastrinoma, VIPoma), small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, bile acid malabsorption (short-bowel syndrome), and villous adenoma. Additional testing may be warranted in patients with secretory diarrhea. Patients found to have a small-bowel tumor in the setting of diarrhea as well as symptoms such as flushing should be considered for additional testing, including radioimmunoassays for peptides and/or 24-hour urine 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid measurement for carcinoid tumors. Colonoscopy can be used to evaluate for villous adenomas and is also indicated if the patient is not up-to-date for colon cancer screening.
Infections leading to chronic diarrhea can be caused by parasites such as Giardia. Giardia leads to a malabsorptive condition; it would not present with large-volume diarrhea that persists despite fasting.
Inflammatory causes of chronic diarrhea include inflammatory bowel diseases (ulcerative colitis and Crohn disease) and microscopic colitis. Patients with inflammatory causes of chronic diarrhea present with bloody stools (except in microscopic colitis), nocturnal symptoms, and sometimes anemia. This patient is less likely to have an inflammatory cause for her chronic diarrhea given the absence of these signs and symptoms. Blood or leukocytes in the stool suggest an inflammatory cause.
Causes of chronic osmotic diarrhea include medications (laxatives), undigested sugars (lactose), celiac disease, and fat maldigestion or absorption leading to steatorrhea (chronic pancreatitis). When laxative abuse is suspected, a stool or urine laxative screen can aid in the diagnosis. Celiac disease can be evaluated with serology testing and small intestinal biopsy. A positive 72-hour stool collection for fecal fat confirms steatorrhea; a random fecal fat assessment may be helpful if a timed collection is not possible.

**Bibliography**

Schiller LR, Pardi DS, Spiller R, Semrad CE, Surawicz CM, Giannella RA, et al. Gastro 2013 APDW/WCOG Shanghai working party report: chronic diarrhea: definition, classification, diagnosis. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014;29:6-25. PMID: 24117999 doi:10.1111/jgh.12392

This content was last updated in October 2020.