
### Correct Answer: B) In 1 to 2 months 

**Educational Objective:** Manage follow-up colonoscopy after uncomplicated diverticulitis.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with uncomplicated diverticulitis should undergo colonoscopy 1 to 2 months after the episode of acute diverticulitis, when colonic inflammation has resolved.

This patient should undergo colonoscopy in 1 to 2 months following treatment of uncomplicated diverticulitis. According to the American Gastroenterological Association Institute Technical Review on the Management of Acute Diverticulitis, patients with a recent episode of acute diverticulitis should undergo colonoscopy 4 to 8 weeks after an episode of acute diverticulitis. Follow-up colonoscopy may identify a few cases of colorectal carcinoma. The risk for perforation after a case of diverticulitis is uncertain. The technical review estimated that 1 in 67 patients with confirmed acute diverticulitis would have a misdiagnosed colorectal cancer found on follow-up colonoscopy. Almost all of the misdiagnosed colorectal cancers included in the technical review were located in the area of diverticulitis. Assessing the patient for underlying inflammatory bowel disease is another reason for performing follow-up colonoscopy.
Colonoscopy during the acute phase of illness is contraindicated because acute diverticulitis causes acute colonic inflammation, which may increase the risk for perforation. The risk for perforation has been reported to be as high as 0.3%, but it is generally thought to be less than 0.1%, based on data from large populations undergoing screening colonoscopy. If the results of colonoscopy performed within the past 12 to 24 months are negative, then repeat colonoscopy is not needed.
Delaying colonoscopy beyond 1 to 2 months places the patient at risk for a missed diagnosis that could be important and time sensitive, such as a diagnosis of colon cancer.

**Bibliography**

Strate LL, Peery AF, Neumann I. American Gastroenterological Association Institute technical review on the management of acute diverticulitis. Gastroenterology. 2015;149:1950-1976.e12. PMID: 26453776 doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2015.10.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.