
### Correct Answer: C) Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

#### **Key Point:** Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is the most common cause of abnormal liver test results in the United States.

The most likely diagnosis is nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Up to 108 million Americans have NAFLD, which far exceeds the prevalence of any other form of chronic liver disease. Risk factors include obesity, diabetes mellitus, insulin resistance, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia. This patient has three risk factors for NAFLD. Her elevated alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase levels are within the typical range for patients with NAFLD. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) levels may be slightly elevated as well, typically less than 2 to 2.5 times the upper limit of normal. The finding of a hyperechoic liver on ultrasonography is also consistent with NAFLD. Because other liver diseases may also result in hepatic steatosis, patients with elevated liver chemistries and suspected nonalcoholic steatohepatitis should be evaluated to exclude other causes of chronic liver disease.
The diagnosis of primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is generally made on the basis of a cholestatic liver enzyme profile in the setting of a positive antimitochondrial antibody test. The predominant liver enzyme abnormality is an increase in serum ALP levels, but a mild to moderate increase in aminotransferase levels is also seen. Antimitochondrial antibody–negative PBC accounts for about 10% of cases of PBC, but in suspected antimitochondrial antibody–negative PBC, other PBC-specific autoantibodies (sp100 or gp210) can establish the diagnosis in a patient with a compatible cholestatic liver enzyme profile. This patient's liver chemistry profile is hepatocellular (elevations primarily of aminotransaminase levels), not cholestatic, making PBC unlikely.
Although this patient has a positive anti–smooth muscle antibody test, the low titer alone is not diagnostic of autoimmune hepatitis. Autoimmune hepatitis is typically accompanied by higher autoantibody titers and elevated γ-globulin levels. It requires a liver biopsy to establish the diagnosis. Between 20% and 30% of patients with NAFLD exhibit low-titer autoantibodies.
This patient has a minimally elevated ALP level, which helps to exclude primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) or PBC. In addition, the patient's risk factors and ultrasound findings make these diagnoses unlikely. MR cholangiopancreatography is required to diagnose PSC.

**Bibliography**

Chalasani N, Younossi Z, Lavine JE, Diehl AM, Brunt EM, Cusi K, et al. The diagnosis and management of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease: practice guideline by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, American College of Gastroenterology, and the American Gastroenterological Association. Hepatology. 2012;55:2005-23. PMID: 22488764 doi:10.1002/hep.25762

This content was last updated in March 2021.