
### Correct Answer: D) Sitz baths and psyllium 

**Educational Objective:** Treat acute anal fissure.

#### **Key Point:** The most effective treatment approach for anal fissure is daily warm-water sitz baths and the use of the bulk laxative psyllium.

Sitz baths and psyllium are the most appropriate next step in the management of this patient, who has an acute anal fissure that is most likely the result of worsening constipation induced by the recent use of opioid analgesic therapy. Anal fissures are tears in the anoderm below the dentate line that can be seen on inspection of the perianal area, often unaided by the use of an anoscope. They are usually in the posterior position and are less often in the anterior midline. The classic symptom is pain with and after defecation, which may be associated with bright red blood on the toilet tissue. Most acute fissures heal spontaneously. The most effective treatment approach is daily warm-water sitz baths and the use of the bulk laxative psyllium. This combination therapy was superior to topical lidocaine or hydrocortisone in a randomized clinical trial.
Anal botulinum toxin injection is reserved for chronic anal fissures that do not respond to more conservative treatment measures, including sitz baths, fiber supplementation, and topical therapy (nitroglycerin or calcium channel blocker) applied to the anal canal. This initial acute presentation of anal fissure is best managed by more conservative, less invasive treatment measures first.
A flexible sigmoidoscopy is not indicated because the diagnosis of anal fissure can be accurately made by history and examination. Furthermore, the patient's family history is not significant enough to warrant endoscopic evaluation.
Although topical anti-inflammatory therapy can alleviate the pain associated with anal fissure, the placement of a suppository may be uncomfortable. In addition, the patient has already tried over-the-counter topical hemorrhoid therapy with no relief of symptoms, so a glucocorticoid suppository is unlikely to help.
Topical glucocorticoid therapy is less effective in the treatment of anal fissure than sitz baths and fiber. Lubiprostone is a peripherally acting chloride channel activator with FDA approval for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation. This patient's opioid analgesic use is temporary after shoulder surgery, and lubiprostone use is more appropriate in the setting of more chronic opioid use.

**Bibliography**

Beaty JS, Shashidharan M. Anal fissure. Clin Colon Rectal Surg. 2016;29:30-7. PMID: 26929749 doi:10.1055/s-0035-1570390

This content was last updated in August 2018.