
### Correct Answer: A) Colonoscopy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose familial adenomatous polyposis.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with multiple fundic gland polyps found at a young age should be evaluated for familial adenomatous polyposis.

Colonoscopy is the best next step in the evaluation of this patient. The patient has multiple fundic gland polyps, which can be associated with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). Fundic gland polyps related to FAP are usually numerous (>30 polyps) and frequently harbor low-grade dysplasia, but they rarely progress to gastric cancer. Colonoscopy to rule out FAP is recommended in patients younger than age 40 years with dysplastic or numerous fundic gland polyps. Classic FAP results in the development of hundreds to thousands of colorectal adenomas that often manifest by the second decade of life. Without treatment, colorectal cancer typically develops in all patients by age 40 years. Therefore, a colonoscopy is indicated in this patient to evaluate for colonic polyposis. If colonic polyposis identified, the patient should undergo genetic testing to make the definitive diagnosis of FAP. FAP is caused by mutations in the APC gene. Mutations can be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern with multiple generations affected, but de novo mutations account for up to 25% of cases. If FAP is confirmed in this patient, it is likely due to a de novo mutation because of his unremarkable family history.
There is no role for surgical management of fundic gland polyps because they rarely progress to gastric cancer, so gastrectomy is not indicated for this patient.
An upper endoscopy in 3 months is not indicated for diagnosis of FAP. If FAP is confirmed, the patient should have regular surveillance of the upper gastrointestinal tract with a forward and side-viewing scope to assess for duodenal polyps. Duodenal polyps occur commonly in FAP, and risk for duodenal cancer is elevated. The interval for surveillance upper endoscopy in FAP depends on the number, size, and pathology of the duodenal polyps. This upper endoscopy also includes surveillance for gastric adenomas and cancer.
For sporadic fundic gland polyps, no further evaluation would be needed. Sporadic fundic gland polyps can arise in the setting of proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy; however, this usually occurs with prolonged therapy. Because this patient has only been taking a PPI for 4 months, his fundic gland polyposis is unlikely to be caused by PPI therapy. The patient's young age and the number of gastric polyps should prompt evaluation by colonoscopy.

**Bibliography**

Syngal S, Brand RE, Church JM, Giardiello FM, Hampel HL, Burt RW; American College of Gastroenterology. ACG clinical guideline: genetic testing and management of hereditary gastrointestinal cancer syndromes. Am J Gastroenterol. 2015;110:223-62; quiz 263. PMID: 25645574 doi:10.1038/ajg.2014.435

This content was last updated in August 2018.