
### Correct Answer: D) Primary sclerosing cholangitis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose primary sclerosing cholangitis.

#### **Key Point:** Approximately 5% of patients with inflammatory bowel disease will develop primary sclerosing cholangitis during the course of their disease, typically presenting as cholestatic liver injury with a characteristic imaging study showing bile duct strictures and dilations (“string of beads”).

Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is the most likely diagnosis in this patient. The patient has elevated liver chemistry test results in a predominantly cholestatic pattern and concomitant inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Disorders are considered cholestatic when the most prominent abnormality of liver chemistry testing is an elevation of the serum alkaline phosphatase level. Approximately 5% of patients with IBD will develop PSC during the course of their disease. In most patients, PSC presents as a stricturing process in the medium to large bile ducts, readily identifiable by MR cholangiopancreatography (alternating strictures and dilations resulting in a “string of beads” pattern). However, a minority of patients may present with involvement of only the small bile ducts, called small-duct PSC. The cholangiogram is normal in these patients; the diagnosis of small-duct PSC can only be made by liver biopsy. Small-duct PSC is associated with a better prognosis than typical PSC, although 10% to 20% of patients with small-duct PSC eventually develop changes in the medium and large ducts.
The diagnosis of primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is generally made on the basis of a cholestatic liver enzyme profile in the setting of a positive antimitochondrial antibody test. Case reports have described PBC associated with IBD, but the association between the two conditions is not well accepted, making the diagnosis of PBC unlikely. Although 10% of patients with PBC may test negative for antimitochondrial antibody, the absence of antibody makes this diagnosis less likely. A liver biopsy is required to establish the diagnosis of antimitochondrial antibody–negative PBC. In suspected antimitochondrial antibody–negative PBC, other PBC-specific autoantibodies (sp100 or gp210) can establish the diagnosis in a patient with a compatible cholestatic liver enzyme profile.
Drug-induced liver injury can occur in patients taking medications used to treat IBD, such as azathioprine and tumor necrosis factor-α inhibitors. Drug-induced liver injury is not a common adverse effect of mesalamine; therefore, this diagnosis is unlikely in this patient.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is the most common liver disease in the United States. It is unlikely in this patient because it usually does not present with alkaline phosphatase levels greater than 2 to 2.5 times the upper limit of normal. Furthermore, MRI has a reasonable sensitivity (>80%) for the detection of fatty liver, which was not seen in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Lindor KD, Kowdley KV, Harrison ME; American College of Gastroenterology. ACG clinical guideline: primary sclerosing cholangitis. Am J Gastroenterol. 2015;110:646-59; quiz 660. PMID: 25869391 doi:10.1038/ajg.2015.112

This content was last updated in May 2019.