
### Correct Answer: A) Bone densitometry 

**Educational Objective:** Screen for osteoporosis in a patient with cirrhosis.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with cirrhosis are at increased risk for the development of osteoporosis and should be screened using bone densitometry.

Bone densitometry to screen for osteoporosis is the most appropriate next intervention for this patient with cirrhosis. Patients with cirrhosis are at twice the risk for the development of osteoporosis as demographically similar patients without cirrhosis, and women (especially those who are postmenopausal) are at higher risk than men. Initial studies of metabolic bone disease in patients with cirrhosis focused on those with primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) or alcoholic liver disease. Subsequently, it has been recognized that all patients with cirrhosis are at increased risk for bone fractures due to osteoporosis. Standard evaluation should include measurement of serum calcium, phosphate, and vitamin D levels. Up to two thirds of patients with cirrhosis are deficient in vitamin D. Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry is recommended for patients with cirrhosis or PBC (even if noncirrhotic).
Patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) have a high likelihood of ulcerative colitis with associated risk for colonic dysplasia and colon cancer. Eighty percent of patients with PSC have inflammatory bowel disease, usually ulcerative colitis. This association with ulcerative colitis is not seen in patients with PBC. This patient is at average risk for colorectal cancer, and colonoscopy is not indicated until age 50 years.
Contrast-enhanced abdominal CT with arterial and portal venous phase imaging can be helpful in evaluating for hepatocellular cancer; however, in this patient whose ultrasound showed no hepatic mass, a CT scan is not necessary.
Patients with cirrhosis who develop an infection have a 30% mortality rate at 1 month, and another 30% die within 12 months; this underscores the importance of preventing infection. However, the herpes zoster vaccine is not indicated in patients younger than age 50 years. The recombinant zoster vaccine is recommended for individuals aged 50 years and older, regardless of whether they have had a previous zoster episode. There is currently no Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommendation on the use of recombinant zoster vaccine among pregnant women or adults with immunocompromising conditions. Patients with decompensated cirrhosis are considered immunocompromised due to impaired reticuloendothelial cell function, impaired neutrophil function, and possible concomitant malnutrition.

**Bibliography**

Santos LA, Romeiro FG. Diagnosis and management of cirrhosis-related osteoporosis. Biomed Res Int. 2016;2016:1423462. PMID: 27840821

This content was last updated in October 2021.