
### Correct Answer: C) Heparin 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent venous thromboembolism in a hospitalized patient with inflammatory bowel disease.

#### **Key Point:** All hospitalized patients with inflammatory bowel disease should be given pharmacologic venous thromboembolism prophylaxis with subcutaneous heparin.

Subcutaneous heparin is the most appropriate venous thromboembolism (VTE) prophylaxis for this patient. VTE is a common clinical problem and is associated with substantial morbidity and mortality among hospitalized patients. Most medical patients have one or more risk factors for VTE. More than a quarter of patients with undiagnosed and untreated pulmonary embolism (PE) will have a subsequent fatal PE, and between 5% and 10% of all in-hospital deaths are a direct result of PE. VTE is one of the most common extraintestinal manifestations of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD); patients with IBD have a three-fold risk for VTE compared to patients without IBD. VTE represents a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with IBD, and risk for VTE is highest at the time of disease flare. Although the incidence of VTE increases with age, the highest relative risk for VTE in IBD is observed in patients younger than 40 years old. Patients with IBD who develop VTE have an increased mortality rate, and the most important risk factor for development of VTE is active IBD. For these reasons, prevention of VTE in patients with IBD is essential. All hospitalized patients with IBD should be given pharmacologic VTE prophylaxis with subcutaneous heparin. Systematic reviews of trials comparing prophylactic low-molecular-weight heparin with unfractionated heparin have not shown a statistically significant difference for mortality or major bleeding events, although there was a nonsignificant trend favoring low-molecular-weight heparin in the prevention of PE.
Mechanical VTE prophylaxis with graduated compression stockings or intermittent pneumatic compression devices is not recommended either with or in place of pharmacologic prophylaxis, although intermittent pneumatic compression has shown some efficacy in surgical patients and may be an option for nonsurgical patients with a contraindication to pharmacologic therapy, such as severe gastrointestinal bleeding. Compression stocking are no more effective than placebo in preventing VTE and are associated with harm in the form of increased incidence of skin breakdown.
Aspirin and low-dose warfarin have no role in VTE prophylaxis for hospitalized medical patients or patients with IBD.

**Bibliography**

Seah D, De Cruz P. Review article: the practical management of acute severe ulcerative colitis. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2016;43:482-513. PMID: 26725569 doi:10.1111/apt.13491

This content was last updated in August 2018.