
### Correct Answer: A) Discontinue lisinopril 

**Educational Objective:** Treat ascites caused by portal hypertension.

#### **Key Point:** Medications that decrease kidney perfusion, including NSAIDs, ACE inhibitors, and angiotensin receptor blockers, should be discontinued in patients with ascites.

Discontinuing lisinopril is the most appropriate next step in the management of this patient with ascites. Blood pressure falls with worsening cirrhosis, resulting in reduced renal blood flow and glomerular filtration. A compensatory upregulation of the renin-angiotensin system results in increased levels of vasoconstrictors, including vasopressin, angiotensin, and aldosterone, which support systemic blood pressure and kidney function. ACE inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers impair the compensatory response to cirrhosis-related hypotension and thereby impair the ability to excrete excess sodium and water and may also affect survival. Medications that decrease kidney perfusion, including NSAIDs, ACE inhibitors such as lisinopril, and angiotensin receptor blockers, should be discontinued because their use often worsens ascites due to portal hypertension. The mainstay of therapy of ascites is to initiate dietary changes, restricting sodium intake to less than 2000 mg (87 mEq) daily. If sodium restriction does not result in significant improvement of ascites, the initiation of diuretic therapy with spironolactone with or without furosemide can be effective in increasing urinary sodium excretion.
Free-water restriction can be useful for the management of dilutional hyponatremia that is sometimes seen in patients with advanced liver dysfunction. This patient has a normal serum sodium concentration, so free-water restriction is not indicated.
Propranolol and other nonselective β-blockers are often used prophylactically for the prevention of variceal hemorrhage, but they do not have a role in the management of ascites. Furthermore, in some patients with ascites that is refractory to medical management, β-blockers may worsen clinical outcomes, including survival.
Indwelling drains for ascites have been used for patients with malignant ascites, but in the setting of portal hypertensive ascites, such as seen in this patient, indwelling drains are associated with a high risk for infection and their use is contraindicated.

**Bibliography**

Runyon BA; AASLD. Introduction to the revised American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases Practice Guideline management of adult patients with ascites due to cirrhosis 2012. Hepatology. 2013;57:1651-3. PMID: 23463403 doi:10.1002/hep.26359

This content was last updated in August 2018.