
### Correct Answer: D) Refer for liver transplantation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat acute liver failure.

#### **Key Point:** Acute liver failure is an indication for immediate referral to a liver transplantation center.

Referral for liver transplantation is the most appropriate choice for this patient with acute liver failure. Acute liver failure is defined by the manifestation of hepatic encephalopathy within 26 weeks of developing symptoms of liver disease. The development of jaundice was this patient's first symptom of liver disease. Within 6 weeks, he developed coagulopathy, with an INR of 2.6, as well as symptoms of hepatic encephalopathy (confusion and asterixis). Liver injury is distinct from acute liver failure and presents with elevated liver test results and/or jaundice in the absence of evidence of liver function failure. The most common causes of acute liver failure are medications, especially acetaminophen, and viral infections, although many cases are due to indeterminate causes. The prompt recognition of acute liver failure is essential due to high rates of mortality. Patients require frequent monitoring for hypoglycemia, hypophosphatemia, acute kidney injury, infections, and progressive hepatic encephalopathy, which can be accompanied by cerebral edema and intracranial hypertension. Liver transplantation improves the survival rate; therefore, referral to a liver transplantation center is essential upon recognition of acute liver failure.
The presence of an elevated INR reflects decreased synthesis of liver-derived clotting factors, and the administration of fresh frozen plasma is not indicated in the absence of demonstrable bleeding or the need for invasive procedures.
Kidney failure is common in the setting of acute liver failure, and many patients require renal replacement therapy, which should be performed in a liver transplant center. Most patients requiring hemodialysis in this setting tolerate continuous renal replacement therapy better than intermittent hemodialysis.
There are several appropriate indications for endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), and one of the most common is the evaluation of biliary obstruction. In these cases, ERCP can both be diagnostic and therapeutic if the obstruction can be removed or bypassed. In this patient, ERCP is not indicated because the ultrasound shows no signs of biliary obstruction.

**Bibliography**

Lee WM, Stravitz RT, Larson AM. Introduction to the revised American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases position paper on acute liver failure 2011. Hepatology. 2012;55:965-7. PMID: 22213561 doi:10.1002/hep.25551

This content was last updated in August 2018.