
### Correct Answer: D) Oral mesalamine and mesalamine enema 

**Educational Objective:** Treat left-sided ulcerative colitis.

#### **Key Point:** Combined mesalamine therapy (oral and topical) is superior for induction of remission in mild to moderately active ulcerative colitis compared with oral or topical therapies alone.

Oral mesalamine with mesalamine enema is the most appropriate treatment. Ulcerative colitis typically presents with bloody diarrhea and abdominal discomfort, the severity of which is related to the extent and severity of inflammation. The distribution of ulcerative colitis is generally divided into proctitis (involving the rectum only), left-sided colitis (inflammation does not extend beyond the splenic flexure), and pancolitis (inflammation extends above the splenic flexure). The choice of treatment depends on the extent and severity of inflammation. This patient's stool passage frequency (three per day), intermittent hematochezia, normal blood count and C-reactive protein level, and normal vital signs categorize her disease as mild. Results of colonoscopy with biopsy show moderate inflammation of the rectum and a sigmoid colon consistent with chronic idiopathic left-sided ulcerative colitis.
Mesalamine preparations are the mainstay of treatment in patients with mild to moderate disease. Mesalamine given orally or topically is effective in inducing and maintaining remission in ulcerative colitis. Evidence suggests that combined mesalamine therapy (oral and topical) is superior for induction of remission in mild to moderately active disease compared with oral or topical therapies alone; however, patient adherence to this dual treatment regimen can be difficult.
A mesalamine enema has topical effects up to the splenic flexure of the colon and would be a more effective topical agent when combined with oral mesalamine in this patient.
A mesalamine suppository is appropriate for treatment of ulcerative proctitis but is not effective for topical treatment of inflammation above the rectum.

**Bibliography**

Bressler B, Marshall JK, Bernstein CN, Bitton A, Jones J, Leontiadis GI, et al; Toronto Ulcerative Colitis Consensus Group. Clinical practice guidelines for the medical management of nonhospitalized ulcerative colitis: the Toronto consensus. Gastroenterology. 2015;148:1035-1058.e3. PMID: 25747596 doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2015.03.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.