
### Correct Answer: B) Stool antigen testing for Helicobacter pylori 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate dyspepsia.

#### **Key Point:** Patients younger than age 60 years presenting with dyspepsia should first undergo a noninvasive test for Helicobacter pylori followed by eradication therapy if testing is positive.

Stool antigen testing for Helicobacter pylori is the most appropriate next step in the management of this patient. The American College of Gastroenterology and Canadian Association of Gastroenterology have issued a joint recommendation that patients younger than age 60 years presenting with dyspepsia should first undergo a noninvasive test for H. pylori followed by eradication therapy if testing is positive. The committee gave a strong recommendation based on high-quality evidence for the “test and treat” strategy.
The pooled data from four trials including a total of 1608 patients with dyspepsia found no difference in the prevalence of dyspepsia at the end of 1 year of follow-up between patients undergoing the “test and treat” strategy versus those receiving a course of empirical proton pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy. Furthermore, there was a trend toward a reduction in cost for the “test and treat” strategy compared to empirical PPI therapy. For these reasons, testing for H. pylori is a more appropriate initial strategy for this patient than a course of omeprazole. In patients whose testing is negative for H. pylori, an empiric trial of PPI therapy (for example, omeprazole) can be considered before proceeding to any other testing.
Upper endoscopy should be performed routinely in patients older than age 60 years with persistent dyspeptic symptoms. Clinicians may treat a minority of patients older than age 60 years with empirical therapy instead of endoscopy, provided the risk of upper gastroenterologic malignancy is low. Upper endoscopy could be considered in younger patients with a family history of gastric cancer or who have emigrated from a region with increased risk for gastric cancer (Asia, Russia, and South America). Upper endoscopy is considered the gold standard for the exclusion of upper gastrointestinal structural causes of dyspepsia.
No other biochemical, structural (including right upper quadrant ultrasonography), or physiologic studies should be performed routinely for the evaluation of dyspepsia.

**Bibliography**

Moayyedi PM, Lacy BE, Andrews CN, Enns RA, Howden CW, Vakil N. ACG and CAG clinical guideline: management of dyspepsia. Am J Gastroenterol. 2017;112:988-1013. PMID: 28631728 doi:10.1038/ajg.2017.154

This content was last updated in March 2019.