
### Correct Answer: C) Serum ceruloplasmin measurement 

**Educational Objective:** Test for Wilson disease.

#### **Key Point:** Wilson disease should be considered in all patients younger than age 40 years who have unexplained liver disease.

Serum ceruloplasmin measurement is the most appropriate test for this patient. Wilson disease is an autosomal recessive disorder of copper excretion with subsequent accumulation of copper in the liver and central nervous system, cornea, kidney, joints, and cardiac muscle resulting in organ dysfunction. Children aged 10 years or younger with Wilson disease tend to present with acute liver failure; older patients (aged 30 years or younger) present with chronic liver disease and/or neurologic manifestations. Wilson disease should be considered in all patients younger than age 40 years who have unexplained liver disease. When Wilson disease causes acute hepatitis, usually in young patients, the sudden release of copper from liver cells can also induce hemolytic anemia. In this patient with evidence of hepatic encephalopathy, hemolytic anemia, low alkaline phosphatase level, and unconjugated bilirubinemia, the diagnosis of Wilson disease should be considered. The serum ceruloplasmin level is used to test for Wilson disease. Slit-lamp examination of the cornea can be performed to evaluate for Kayser-Fleischer rings, which most commonly occur in patients with neurologic manifestations of Wilson disease. A 24-hour urine copper assessment can be performed to confirm an excessive amount of copper excretion.
The diagnosis of primary biliary cholangitis is generally made on the basis of a cholestatic liver enzyme profile in the setting of a positive antimitochondrial antibody test. The predominant liver enzyme abnormality is an increase in serum alkaline phosphatase level. This patient's biochemical profile reflects hepatocellular injury, not cholestasis, and an antimitochondrial antibody test is not indicated.
With a negative test for hepatitis B virus surface antigen, this patient is very unlikely to have a hepatitis B viral infection and measurement of a hepatitis B virus DNA level is not indicated.
Symptomatic hereditary hemochromatosis is usually diagnosed after age 40 years and is often diagnosed later in women than in men, due to iron losses associated with menstruation, pregnancy, and lactation. The most sensitive initial diagnostic study is measurement of the serum transferrin saturation. The patient's sex, young age, and presence of a hemolytic anemia make the diagnosis of hereditary hemochromatosis unlikely and the measurement of a transferrin level unnecessary.

**Bibliography**

Eapen CE, Kumar S, Fleming JJ, Ramakrishna B, Abraham L, Ramachandran J. Copper and liver disease. Gut. 2012;61:63. PMID: 22139599 doi:10.1136/gutjnl-2011-301743

This content was last updated in August 2018.