
### Correct Answer: A) Botulinum toxin injection 

**Educational Objective:** Treat achalasia with botulinum toxin injection.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with achalasia who are at high surgical risk should be treated with endoscopic botulinum toxin injection.

Endoscopic botulinum toxin injection is the best treatment option for this patient because his cardiac status places him at an unacceptable surgical risk. Achalasia is a motility disorder of the esophagus that results in aperistalsis and inadequate relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter (LES). The cause of achalasia is unknown, but the pathophysiologic process involves ganglion cell and myenteric plexus degeneration in the esophageal body and LES. This nerve imbalance leads to uncontested action by cholinergic nerves and incomplete LES relaxation. The clinical presentation of achalasia consists of dysphagia to both solids and liquids. Additional symptoms may include regurgitation, chest pain, and heartburn. Standard treatments for achalasia include surgical myotomy and endoscopic pneumatic dilation. Botulinum toxin injection inhibits acetylcholine release, resulting in relaxation of the LES and relief of achalasia symptoms in up to 85% of patients. However, approximately 50% of patients will experience recurrent symptoms within 6 to 24 months after injection.
Medical therapy with calcium channel blockers or long-acting nitrates is considered third-line therapy because its effectiveness is limited. Medications may be used early in treatment, in patients who decline other interventions, before definitive treatment, and in patients who have a recurrence in symptoms after botulinum toxin injection for achalasia.
Studies have shown that endoscopic pneumatic dilation and surgical myotomy result in similar clinical outcomes in patients with achalasia, with choice of therapy depending on local expertise. Pneumatic dilation is the most effective nonsurgical treatment and is more cost-effective than surgical myotomy, but it is associated with serious complications, such as esophageal perforation. Therefore, patients who are not surgical candidates should not undergo endoscopic dilation treatment of achalasia.

**Bibliography**

Vaezi MF, Pandolfino JE, Vela MF. ACG clinical guideline: diagnosis and management of achalasia. Am J Gastroenterol. 2013;108:1238-49; quiz 1250. PMID: 23877351 doi:10.1038/ajg.2013.196

This content was last updated in August 2018.