
### Correct Answer: B) Electrocardiography 

**Educational Objective:** Recognize atypical chest pain and evaluate before starting treatment for gastroesophageal reflux disease.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with atypical chest pain, a cardiac cause must be ruled out before starting treatment for gastroesophageal reflux disease.

The most appropriate next step in management of this patient is electrocardiography followed by evaluation for cardiac disease. Although gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) can present with symptoms of chest pain, this patient's pain is also exertional (occurs while walking up stairs), which is not typical in GERD. Failure to identify underlying cardiac disease in the setting of atypical chest pain can be catastrophic. Although this patient may have GERD, it is essential to evaluate her for heart disease before beginning empiric treatment for GERD. GERD is the most common cause of noncardiac chest pain, and chest pain caused by esophageal disorders can be difficult to distinguish from cardiac chest pain because of the anatomic proximity and common innervation of the esophagus and the heart.
Barium esophagography is recommended as the initial test for evaluation of dysphagia but is not recommended for the evaluation of typical GERD symptoms.
In patients with typical GERD symptoms, no additional testing is required and an empiric trial of a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) can be initiated. Failure to improve after 8 weeks of standard therapy should prompt further evaluation. In patients with atypical chest pain, treatment with a PPI is appropriate after ruling out cardiac disease as a cause of the chest pain.
An upper endoscopy is indicated in patients with gastrointestinal alarm symptoms such as anemia, dysphagia, or unintentional weight loss. Upper endoscopy is the primary tool to evaluate mucosal inflammation in the upper gastrointestinal tract.

**Bibliography**

Katz PO, Gerson LB, Vela MF. Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of gastroesophageal reflux disease. Am J Gastroenterol. 2013;108:308-28; quiz 329. PMID: 23419381 doi:10.1038/ajg.2012.444

This content was last updated in August 2018.