
### Correct Answer: D) Relapsing, remitting hepatitis A viral infection 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose the relapsing, remitting variant of hepatitis A viral infection.

#### **Key Point:** The relapsing, remitting variant of hepatitis A viral infection is characterized by multiple clinical or biochemical relapses with spontaneous improvement within months to 1 year without intervention.

Relapsing, remitting hepatitis A virus (HAV) infection is the most likely diagnosis. This patient returned from Mexico with an icteric illness and tested positive for HAV IgM, consistent with acute HAV infection. Her HAV-infection symptoms resolved and liver chemistry tests normalized, but she developed an icteric illness 3 months later. This presentation is most consistent with an atypical course of HAV infection known as relapsing, remitting HAV infection. It is rare but was reported to occur in up to 10% of patients with HAV infection in one series. Patients may have multiple clinical or biochemical relapses but will spontaneously improve within months to 1 year without intervention. The relapses tend to be milder, are more likely to be associated with cholestasis, and may be associated with extrahepatic manifestations including nephritis, arthralgia, vasculitis, and cryoglobulinemia.
In rare cases, HAV infection has been observed to trigger autoimmune hepatitis. However, testing does not show the typical antibodies (anti–smooth muscle or antinuclear antibodies) or elevated IgG levels commonly seen in patients with autoimmune hepatitis.
Acute leptospirosis is manifested by high fever, headache, severe myalgia, conjunctival injection, abdominal pain, diarrhea, pharyngitis, and occasionally a pretibial rash. The patient's clinical course is not compatible with leptospirosis.
Malarial infection can result in jaundice due to hemolysis or, less commonly, cholestasis. However, Mexico is considered to be a very low-risk travel destination for acquisition of malaria.

**Bibliography**

Matheny SC, Kingery JE. Hepatitis A. Am Fam Physician. 2012;86:1027-34; quiz 1010-2. PMID: 23198670

This content was last updated in August 2018.