
### Correct Answer: D) Ursodeoxycholic acid 

**Educational Objective:** Treat intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy with ursodeoxycholic acid.

#### **Key Point:** The mainstay of therapy for intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy is ursodeoxycholic acid, which is associated with alleviated symptoms and improved liver test abnormalities.

Ursodeoxycholic acid therapy is the most appropriate management for this patient. Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy is a liver condition that affects pregnant women in the second or third trimester. This condition spontaneously improves within 48 hours of delivery. Typical symptoms include diffuse pruritus, and there is typically a mild increase in serum transaminase concentrations. Associated risks include premature delivery as well as higher rates of fetal death. Mutations in bile salt transporters have been implicated in the pathophysiology. The mainstay of therapy for intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy is ursodeoxycholic acid, which is associated with alleviated symptoms, improved liver test abnormalities but did not change fetal outcomes.
Cholestasis of pregnancy can be diagnosed in pregnant women with otherwise unexplained pruritus and abnormal liver chemistry tests. Elevated levels of total serum bile acid in a pregnant woman with pruritus are considered diagnostic for cholestasis of pregnancy in the absence of an alternative diagnosis. In this patient with findings compatible with intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy and a normal hepatic ultrasound, a liver biopsy is not needed.
HELLP (Hemolysis, Elevated Liver enzymes, and Low Platelets) syndrome presents during the third trimester and is an advanced complication of preeclampsia. HELLP syndrome typically presents with abdominal pain, new-onset nausea and vomiting, pruritus, and jaundice. A peripheral blood smear will reveal schistocytes. This patient is not anemic and does not have thrombocytopenia or hypertension; therefore, a peripheral blood smear to support the diagnosis of HELLP syndrome is not needed.
Pruritic urticarial papules and plaques of pregnancy (PUPPP) is the most common specific dermatosis of pregnancy. PUPPP is a clinical diagnosis confirmed by the appearance late in the third trimester of erythematous plaques in the distribution of striae. Persistent and bothersome pruritus is a symptomatic hallmark of the condition. It is not associated with jaundice or elevated transaminase levels. The condition usually resolves shortly after delivery. The first-line option for therapy is usually topical glucocorticoids of low to mid potency. Topical glucocorticoids are of no value in intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy.

**Bibliography**

Bacq Y, le Besco M, Lecuyer AI, Gendrot C, Potin J, Andres CR, et al. Ursodeoxycholic acid therapy in intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy: results in real-world conditions and factors predictive of response to treatment. Dig Liver Dis. 2017;49:63-69. PMID: 27825922 doi:10.1016/j.dld.2016.10.006

This content was last updated in March 2020.