
### Correct Answer: B) Discontinue olmesartan 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose medication-induced enteropathy.

#### **Key Point:** Olmesartan causes medication-induced enteropathy that can mimic refractory celiac disease.

Discontinuing olmesartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker, is the most appropriate next step in the management of this patient. The patient's presentation is most consistent with drug-associated enteropathy related to olmesartan. In 2013, the FDA issued a warning that olmesartan medoxomil can cause intestinal symptoms known as sprue-like enteropathy and approved labeling changes to include this concern. The enteropathy may develop months to years after starting olmesartan. Drug-associated enteropathy can mimic refractory celiac disease with findings of villous atrophy and increased intraepithelial lymphocytes in the first part of the duodenum. The clinical presentation can include severe diarrhea, weight loss, and dehydration requiring hospitalization. Most of the reported cases of drug-associated enteropathy are caused by olmesartan, although other angiotensin-receptor blocking drugs have been implicated. In addition to adequate fluid resuscitation, the offending medication should be discontinued. In most cases of drug-associated enteropathy, symptoms and pathological changes resolve when the drug is stopped.
Other medications, such as NSAIDs, proton pump inhibitors, antibiotics, colchicine, metformin, and cholesterol-lowering drugs (such as statins), can cause diarrhea and should be considered when evaluating a patient with symptoms of chronic diarrhea (>4 weeks' duration). However, because of the severity of the patient's presentation, the diarrhea is unlikely to be caused by atorvastatin. Additionally, atorvastatin and other statins are not linked to villous atrophy.
A gluten-free diet is the mainstay of treatment for celiac disease. Given the patient's normal celiac serology testing, his symptoms are unlikely to be caused by celiac disease and a gluten-free diet is not indicated. Villous atrophy and increased intraepithelial lymphocytes are not specific for celiac disease.
Other causes of villous atrophy, such as refractory celiac disease, Crohn disease, and autoimmune enteropathy, are treated with glucocorticoids such as prednisone. This patient's presentation and his older age are not consistent with these causes of villous atrophy, so glucocorticoids are not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Ianiro G, Bibbò S, Montalto M, Ricci R, Gasbarrini A, Cammarota G. Systematic review: sprue-like enteropathy associated with olmesartan. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2014;40:16-23. PMID: 24805127 doi:10.1111/apt.12780

This content was last updated in August 2018.