
### Correct Answer: A) Endoscopic ablation 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient with Barrett esophagus with low-grade dysplasia.

#### **Key Point:** Barrett esophagus with low-grade dysplasia should be treated with endoscopic ablation therapy in patients without significant comorbidities.

Endoscopic ablation therapy is the most appropriate next step in the management of this patient's Barrett esophagus with low-grade dysplasia. Barrett esophagus is a consequence of chronic reflux, regardless of the presence of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) symptoms. The damage from GERD causes a change in the normal squamous lining of the distal esophagus to a specialized columnar epithelium visible on endoscopy. Barrett esophagus can present with no dysplasia, indefinite dysplasia, low-grade dysplasia, or high-grade dysplasia, and in some patients dysplasia progresses to adenocarcinoma of the esophagus. In the past, guidelines recommended a surveillance endoscopy in 6 months for patients with low-grade dysplasia. However, more recent guidelines recommend that patients with minimal comorbidities undergo endoscopic ablation therapy for permanent eradication of Barrett esophagus. Endoscopic ablation should be considered after confirmation of dysplasia by a second expert pathologist. If a patient is ineligible for or unwilling to undergo ablation therapy, annual surveillance endoscopy is recommended as an alternative. If two consecutive surveillance endoscopies show no dysplasia, the surveillance interval is changed to every 3 to 5 years, the same interval used in patients with Barrett esophagus with no dysplasia. Patients with Barrett esophagus with high-grade dysplasia are also treated with endoscopic ablation.
Esophagectomy is reserved for patients in whom ablation does not result in eradication of the dysplasia or who have esophageal cancer.
Surgical treatments for GERD consist of laparoscopic fundoplication, an endoscopic procedure that does not cure Barrett esophagus or reduce the risk for progression of dysplasia or cancer, and bariatric surgery (for patients with obesity). Indications for surgery include patient preference to stop taking medication, medication side effects, large hiatal hernia, and refractory symptoms despite maximal medical therapy (although patients with medically refractory symptoms may be less likely to benefit from surgery). Approximately one third of patients require resumption of PPI therapy within 5 to 10 years after surgery. Postoperative complications include dysphagia, diarrhea, and inability to belch because of a tight fundoplication.
Guidelines recommend that patients with Barrett esophagus undergo surveillance only after adequate counseling regarding the risks and benefits of surveillance. Patients with nondysplastic Barrett esophagus should undergo endoscopic surveillance no more frequently than every 3 to 5 years.

**Bibliography**

Shaheen NJ, Falk GW, Iyer PG, Gerson LB; American College of Gastroenterology. ACG Clinical guideline: diagnosis and management of Barrett's esophagus. Am J Gastroenterol. 2016;111:30-50; quiz 51. PMID: 26526079 doi:10.1038/ajg.2015.322

This content was last updated in August 2018.