
### Correct Answer: D) Stool testing for Giardia lamblia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Giardia lamblia infection.

#### **Key Point:** Giardia lamblia infection is a common parasitic infection that occurs most often among children, child care workers, and backpackers or campers who drink untreated water from lakes, rivers, or wells.

Stool testing for Giardia infection is the most appropriate next step in the management of this patient. The patient presents with persistent diarrhea, defined as lasting between 2 and 4 weeks, and because of his occupational exposure, the most likely cause is Giardia lamblia (also known as Giardia intestinalis). Transmission is waterborne or through the fecal-oral route. It occurs most commonly among children (especially in developing countries), child care workers, and backpackers or campers who drink untreated water from lakes, rivers, or wells. Giardia is a noninvasive organism that infects the small intestine and causes diarrhea associated with nausea, bloating, and foul-smelling gas due to malabsorption. Because Giardia cysts are intermittently shed, stool microscopy is less sensitive than stool antigen testing, and the recommended test is a stool enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Treatment options include tinidazole, metronidazole, and nitazoxanide. Treatment of giardiasis with metronidazole is curative in more than 85% of patients.
A colonoscopy is not indicated because this patient's diarrhea is not associated with weight loss, abdominal pain, or blood in the stool, making inflammatory bowel disease an unlikely diagnosis. Microscopic colitis would be an unlikely diagnosis in a 45-year-old man who is not taking any medications known to be associated with microscopic colitis, such as NSAIDs.
A CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis would be unlikely to suggest a cause for watery diarrhea of 4 weeks' duration. The patient's symptoms and occupation suggest a parasitic cause of diarrhea that would not be diagnosed with an imaging study.
A 24-hour 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid measurement is used to evaluate for carcinoid tumors. Up to 85% of patients with gastrointestinal carcinoid syndrome experience intermittent flushing. In addition to flushing, diarrhea is prominent in most patients and is related to rapid intestinal transit time. Approximately 40% of patients also have right-sided valvular heart disease. This patient has no flushing or evidence of a heart murmur, making carcinoid syndrome unlikely and measurement of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic unnecessary.

**Bibliography**

DuPont HL. Persistent diarrhea: a clinical review. JAMA. 2016;315:2712-23. PMID: 27357241 doi:10.1001/jama.2016.7833

This content was last updated in August 2018.