
### Correct Answer: B) Ciprofloxacin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat bleeding esophageal varices.

#### **Key Point:** The mainstay of therapy for variceal hemorrhage is endoscopic therapy, and adjunctive therapies such as antibiotic therapy improve outcomes.

Ciprofloxacin for 7 days is the most appropriate next treatment for this patient with variceal bleeding. Variceal bleeding is a life-threatening complication of portal hypertension. Risk factors for variceal hemorrhage are Child-Turcotte-Pugh class B and C cirrhosis, large varices (>5 mm), and the endoscopic finding of red markings on varices. Approximately 15% to 20% of patients die within 6 weeks of hemorrhage. The mainstay of therapy for variceal hemorrhage is endoscopic therapy. Antibiotic therapy is an important adjunctive therapy for variceal bleeding because bacterial infection occurs in 30% to 40% of patients within 1 week of variceal bleeding. The most common infections seen are spontaneous bacterial peritonitis as well as bacteremia, urinary tract infections, and pneumonia. Antibiotic therapy after variceal bleeding reduces rates of infection and rebleeding as well as mortality after variceal bleeding. There is also benefit to administering antibiotics for patients with cirrhosis who present with nonvariceal upper gastrointestinal bleeding.
This patient does not require a blood transfusion. Hemodynamically stable patients with acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding, no acute coronary syndrome, and no history of peripheral vascular disease or stroke should be transfused when the hemoglobin level is 7 g/dL (70 g/L) or less. This transfusion threshold is associated with improved clinical outcomes compared to higher transfusion thresholds. The goal of transfusion is a hemoglobin level of 7 g/dL (70 g/L) to 9 g/dL (90 g/L). In the setting of hemodynamic stability, overtransfusion should be avoided because it can cause an increase of portal pressure and thereby precipitate rebleeding.
Platelet transfusion is not warranted because hemostasis has already been achieved. This patient has thrombocytopenia, but a transfusion of platelets also has the potential to cause volume overload leading to an increase in portal hypertension and rebleeding. Patients with thrombocytopenia with clinically significant active bleeding, as well as patients without bleeding in whom nonneuraxial surgery is planned, should be transfused to a target platelet count of 50,000 to 100,000/µL (50-100 × 109/L) depending on the clinical circumstances.
Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) placement is useful in the 10% to 20% of patients with variceal bleeding in whom hemostasis is unable to be achieved by endoscopic therapy. In this patient in whom endoscopic therapy was successful, TIPS placement is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Satapathy SK, Sanyal AJ. Nonendoscopic management strategies for acute esophagogastric variceal bleeding. Gastroenterol Clin North Am. 2014;43:819-33. PMID: 25440928 doi:10.1016/j.gtc.2014.08.011

This content was last updated in August 2018.