
### Correct Answer: D) Withdraw alprazolam 

**Educational Objective:** Manage hepatic encephalopathy.

#### **Key Point:** Up to 80% of patients with hepatic encephalopathy have a precipitating factor, most commonly infection or gastrointestinal bleeding.

Discontinuing alprazolam is the most appropriate next step in the management of this patient. Hepatic encephalopathy is a significant, potentially reversible, complication of cirrhosis, with cognitive impairment ranging from mild personality changes to overt coma. Hepatic encephalopathy is a clinical diagnosis and should be suspected in patients with cirrhosis who have changes in mental status, mood, or behavior. Hepatic encephalopathy can be seen in the setting of acute liver failure as well as cirrhosis. The initial management of hepatic encephalopathy centers on identifying and mitigating a precipitating factor. Up to 80% of patients have a precipitating factor, most commonly infection or gastrointestinal bleeding. Other precipitants include opioids, benzodiazepines, electrolyte abnormalities, hypoglycemia, hypoxia, transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt placement, inappropriate lactulose dosing, and dehydration. In this patient who uses a benzodiazepine, alprazolam therapy should be discontinued and alternative means of managing anxiety must be sought. Tapering is likely unnecessary in this patient because the medication was initiated recently. All patients with overt episodic hepatic encephalopathy should undergo screening for infections, including diagnostic paracentesis when ascites is present.
CT of the head can be a useful study in patients with altered mental status of unknown cause, but in patients with hepatic encephalopathy without a history of head trauma or a focal neurological examination, head CT is unnecessary.
Early concerns regarding dietary protein consumption as a precipitant of hepatic encephalopathy have been largely debunked, and outside of rare circumstances, dietary protein restriction should not be undertaken, even in the setting of acute hepatic encephalopathy. Furthermore, due to the high risk for protein-calorie malnutrition in patients with cirrhosis, dietary protein restriction can result in worsened clinical outcomes.
Lactulose is first-line treatment and should be titrated to produce three stools per day. Rifaximin is added to lactulose for prevention of recurrent episodes after a second episode of hepatic encephalopathy. Due to its expense, it is not a first-line therapy for hepatic encephalopathy.

**Bibliography**

Vilstrup H, Amodio P, Bajaj J, Cordoba J, Ferenci P, Mullen KD, et al. Hepatic encephalopathy in chronic liver disease: 2014 practice guideline by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases and the European Association for the Study of the Liver. Hepatology. 2014;60:715-35. PMID: 25042402 doi:10.1002/hep.27210

This content was last updated in August 2018.