
### Correct Answer: B) Liver transplantation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hepatocellular carcinoma with liver transplantation.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with cirrhosis and who meet the Milan criteria (up to three hepatocellular carcinoma tumors ≤3 cm or one tumor ≤5 cm) are best treated with liver transplantation and have excellent 5-year survival rates.

Referral for liver transplantation is the most appropriate next step in management for this patient. A diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma can be made in a patient with cirrhosis in the presence of lesions larger than 1 cm that enhance in the arterial phase and have washout of contrast in the venous phase. This patient meets the Milan criteria (up to three hepatocellular carcinoma tumors ≤3 cm or one tumor ≤5 cm) for liver transplantation. Patients who meet the Milan criteria and have a tumor 2 cm or larger with arterial enhancement and venous washout on CT or MRI are eligible to receive Model for End-Stage Liver Disease exception points, placing them at a higher priority for liver transplantation.
Liver transplantation is the only curative therapy for hepatocellular carcinoma and for end-stage liver disease. Patients meeting the Milan criteria have excellent 5-year survival rates after liver transplantation.
Biopsy of the lesion is not indicated in this patient. In the context of cirrhosis, a lesion larger than 1 cm with contrast enhancement in the arterial phase and portal venous washout meets radiologic criteria for hepatocellular carcinoma and, therefore, does not require a lesion biopsy. Additionally, there is potential for harm from a lesion biopsy due to coagulopathy or the very small risk for tumor seeding.
Sorafenib is a multikinase inhibitor that is reserved for patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma with vascular invasion or extrahepatic spread that is not amenable to surgery, liver transplantation, or locoregional therapies. Treatment of these patients with sorafenib confers a survival benefit. This patient is not a candidate for resection and should be evaluated for liver transplantation; sorafenib is not indicated.
Surgical resection would be dangerous for this patient, given the evidence of portal hypertension, which confers increased risk for intraoperative bleeding as well as risk for postoperative liver failure.

**Bibliography**

Heimbach J, Kulik LM, Finn R, Sirlin CB, Abecassis M, Roberts LR, et al. AASLD guidelines for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. Hepatology. 2017. PMID: 28130846 doi:10.1002/hep.29086

This content was last updated in August 2018.