
### Correct Answer: A) CT scan with contrast 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose aortoenteric fistula.

#### **Key Point:** Gastrointestinal bleeding occurring in patients following aortic graft surgery should raise the possibility of aortoenteric fistula; CT with contrast is the initial test in appropriate patients.

A CT scan with intravenous contrast is the most appropriate next test for this patient. The patient presents with the classic “herald bleed” of aortoenteric fistula: a brisk bleed associated with hypotension that stops spontaneously and then is followed later by massive gastrointestinal hemorrhage. An aortoenteric fistula is a communication between the aorta and the gastrointestinal tract, most commonly located in the distal duodenum, especially the third portion, because the duodenum is fixed and located just anterior to the aorta. The possibility of an aortoenteric fistula must be considered in a patient with previous aortic graft surgery who presents with gastrointestinal bleeding. It is a life-threatening condition, with a mortality rate of 50% even with surgical intervention. In this setting, the aortoenteric fistula is most commonly due to graft infection, and associated fever and leukocytosis occurs. When there is a high degree of suspicion for aortoenteric fistula, CT with intravenous contrast should be performed before other types of gastrointestinal evaluation because CT can be performed promptly and is noninvasive. CT can reveal evidence of graft infection, such as perigraft soft-tissue thickening or loss of tissue planes, and its reported sensitivity for aortoenteric fistula is 80% or greater.
Mesenteric angiogram can detect bleeding rates as slow as 1 mL/min compared with 0.2 mL/min for tagged red blood cell scintigraphy; however, given the intermittent nature of bleeding from an aortoenteric fistula, mesenteric angiogram and tagged red blood cell scintigraphy are rarely helpful in the diagnosis of this condition.
Upper endoscopy may be performed to rule out other more common sources of bleeding, but in this patient, the presence of fever, leukocytosis, and bleeding points to aortoenteric fistula as the most likely diagnosis, and CT is the most urgently needed test.

**Bibliography**

Singh M, Koyfman A, Martinez JP. Abdominal vascular catastrophes. Emerg Med Clin North Am. 2016;34:327-39. PMID: 27133247 doi:10.1016/j.emc.2015.12.014

This content was last updated in October 2020.