
### Correct Answer: C) Colonoscopy within 24 hours with oral bowel preparation 

**Educational Objective:** Manage lower gastrointestinal bleeding.

#### **Key Point:** Colonoscopy is the recommended initial diagnostic test after hemodynamic resuscitation in most patients with significant lower gastrointestinal bleeding.

Colonoscopy within 24 hours with adequate bowel preparation is the most appropriate next step in management. Almost 80% of lower gastrointestinal bleeding (LGIB) is due to diverticulosis, colitis, hemorrhoids, or postpolypectomy bleeding. LGIB typically stops within 24 hours. Colonoscopy is the recommended initial diagnostic test after hemodynamic resuscitation in most patients with significant LGIB. LGIB typically occurs in older individuals and presents as acute bright red blood per rectum or red- or maroon-colored stool (hematochezia). Colonoscopy is able to identify the source of bleeding in two thirds of patients. The American College of Gastroenterology's 2016 guidelines for LGIB recommend oral bowel preparation to increase colonoscopy's diagnostic yield. Randomized controlled trials have not shown a benefit in clinical outcomes or cost with rapid bowel preparation and colonoscopy within 8 to 12 hours compared with a standard oral bowel preparation and colonoscopy within 24 hours for patients with LGIB.
For patients who continue to bleed and have failed endoscopic hemostasis treatments (for example, electrocoagulation, hemoclips, submucosal epinephrine injection), the next therapeutic step is arterial embolization of the bleeding source. Major complications include contrast dye reactions, acute kidney injury, transient ischemic attack, bowel ischemia, hematoma formation, and femoral artery thrombosis. This patient should be evaluated first with colonoscopy before using a more invasive treatment strategy.
Radiographic techniques such as tagged red cell scintigraphy may be useful in evaluating overt gastrointestinal bleeding from an unknown source. Nuclear scans can identify only a general area where bleeding is occurring; they cannot offer accuracy or intervention. Follow-up studies after a positive scan can include repeat endoscopy or angiography; both can offer more accurate localization and therapy. Nuclear scans are often done before angiography.
Transfusion strategies specifically for patients with LGIB have not been developed. Data extrapolated from patients with upper gastrointestinal bleeding found that a restrictive transfusion strategy with a transfusion threshold of hemoglobin less than 7 g/dL (70 g/L) improved survival and decreased rebleeding when compared with a threshold of 9 g/dL (90 g/L). Patients with massive bleeding, acute coronary syndrome, symptomatic peripheral vascular disease, or a history of cerebrovascular disease were excluded from these studies and may benefit from a more lenient transfusion strategy.

**Bibliography**

Strate LL, Gralnek IM. ACG clinical guideline: management of patients with acute lower gastrointestinal bleeding. Am J Gastroenterol. 2016;111:459-74. PMID: 26925883 doi:10.1038/ajg.2016.41

This content was last updated in August 2018.