
### Correct Answer: C) Optimization of medical therapy followed by repeat upper endoscopy 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient with Barrett esophagus that is indefinite for dysplasia.

#### **Key Point:** Patients whose Barrett esophagus is indefinite for dysplasia should begin optimized antisecretory medical therapy and undergo a repeat endoscopy.

The most appropriate next step in managing this patient is to optimize medical therapy and then repeat upper endoscopy. This patient's Barrett esophagus is indefinite for dysplasia, which falls between nondysplastic Barrett esophagus and low-grade dysplasia. In patients whose Barrett esophagus is indefinite for dysplasia, medical therapy for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) should be optimized (in this patient, proton pump inhibitor therapy would increase to twice daily) and then the patient should receive a repeat upper endoscopy. Guidelines do not specify a time for repeating the endoscopy; 6 months after antisecretory therapy is optimized would be reasonable. If the repeat endoscopy still shows Barrett esophagus that is indefinite for dysplasia, the patient should continue medical therapy and undergo a repeat endoscopy in 1 year. If the endoscopy is normal at 1 year, a surveillance interval of 3 to 5 years can be resumed.
The patient has a history of GERD, which can lead to Barrett esophagus. Other risk factors for Barrett esophagus include male gender, age, current or past smoking, central obesity, and White race. Barrett esophagus is a precancerous condition that is classified with five levels of histologic findings, from no dysplasia to esophageal cancer. It may progress from intestinal metaplasia to low-grade dysplasia to high-grade dysplasia to invasive adenocarcinoma.
Endoscopic ablation therapy is indicated for patients with Barrett esophagus with low-grade or high-grade dysplasia, although continued endoscopic surveillance is also acceptable for patients with low-grade dysplasia. Because this patient's Barrett esophagus is indefinite for dysplasia, endoscopic ablation therapy is inappropriate.
Esophagectomy is considered for patients with a diagnosis of esophageal cancer.
A repeat endoscopy at 1 year without optimizing medical therapy for GERD is not recommended by current guidelines. Patients with nondysplastic Barrett esophagus should undergo a repeat surveillance endoscopy in 3 to 5 years. Patients with Barrett esophagus with low-grade dysplasia should undergo surveillance endoscopy in 3 to 6 months to detect prevalent dysplasia, and dysplasia should be confirmed by an expert pathologist.

**Bibliography**

Shaheen NJ, Falk GW, Iyer PG, Gerson LB; American College of Gastroenterology. ACG Clinical Guideline: Diagnosis and Management of Barrett's Esophagus. Am J Gastroenterol. 2016;111:30-50; quiz 51. PMID: 26526079

This content was last updated in October 2020.