
### Correct Answer: A) Abdominal radiograph 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate fecal incontinence in an elderly patient.

#### **Key Point:** Fecal loading (excess stool in the colon) with resultant overflow diarrhea is a common cause of fecal incontinence in elderly patients, particularly those who are hospitalized or have degenerative neurologic disorders.

An abdominal radiograph is the most appropriate next step in management of this patient. Fecal incontinence is the involuntary loss of stool. Prevalence increases with age and is 16% in adults older than 70 years. Urge fecal incontinence is the inability to postpone defecation. This patient's explosive diarrhea is the likely source of her urge fecal incontinence. Before treating the diarrhea, it is essential to determine whether the diarrhea is due to overflow from fecal loading (excess stool in the colon). An abdominal radiograph is a simple, safe, and inexpensive diagnostic test. Fecal loading with resultant overflow diarrhea is a common cause of fecal incontinence in elderly patients, particularly those who are hospitalized or have degenerative neurologic disorders. This patient has several risk factors for developing fecal loading, including Alzheimer dementia, history of constipation, and use of constipating medications (memantine and calcium).
Anorectal manometry is useful in the diagnostic evaluation of fecal incontinence to help assess for anal sphincter weakness, rectal hypersensitivity, and/or dyssynergic defecation. Due to its limited availability, cost, and logistical considerations for the patient, its use is reserved for patients with rectal findings suggestive of anal sphincter weakness or dyssynergia, or patients with a lack of response to initial treatment measures.
A trial of loperamide may alleviate this patient's diarrhea in the short term; however, loperamide use will add to the underlying fecal loading, causing her diarrhea and fecal incontinence to worsen over time.
Use of psyllium is unlikely to alleviate the patient's symptoms and would add stool bulk to an already overloaded colon, which would likely worsen her urgency, explosive diarrhea, and fecal incontinence. Furthermore, the patient is likely to experience bloating and abdominal distention caused by the fermentation of the psyllium in the gastrointestinal tract.

**Bibliography**

Yu SW, Rao SS. Anorectal physiology and pathophysiology in the elderly. Clin Geriatr Med. 2014;30:95-106. PMID: 24267605 doi:10.1016/j.cger.2013.10.003

This content was last updated in August 2018.