
### Correct Answer: D) Ischemic colitis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose ischemic colitis.

#### **Key Point:** Ischemic colitis is a low-flow state of the colon occurring most frequently in the left colon and characterized by moderate, left-sided, cramping abdominal pain followed by bloody diarrhea.

Ischemic colitis is the most likely diagnosis in this patient. The patient initially presented in septic shock from a urinary tract infection. He was hypotensive and required intravenous fluids and vasopressor support, which are risk factors for ischemic colitis in elderly patients. Ischemic colitis is a low-flow state of the colon occurring most frequently in the left colon. Conditions that can alter circulation include hypotension, dehydration, strenuous physical activity, medications and illicit drugs, thrombophilia, aortic or cardiac bypass, vasculitis, or an obstructing colon lesion. Diarrhea with rectal bleeding is common. Colonoscopy may show sharply demarcated pale mucosa with petechial bleeding, as it does in this patient. Left colon inflammatory changes may be detected by colonoscopy or abdominal CT. Treatment is supportive care with normalization of blood pressure.
Acute mesenteric ischemia (AMI) is an uncommon vascular emergency. Embolism to the mesenteric arteries causes 50% of cases of AMI. Most emboli are from cardiac sources. Patients typically present in the seventh decade of life and often have associated cardiovascular comorbidities. The classic presentation of early AMI is central abdominal pain out of proportion to the physical examination findings. This patient's gradual onset of left-sided, moderate-intensity abdominal pain is not typical of AMI.
Diverticula represent herniation of mucosa or submucosa through the muscular layers of the colon, typically at the entry site of vasa recta (small arteries), which are a source for bleeding. Diverticular bleeding is usually painless with passage of large-volume red- to maroon-colored blood per rectum. It occurs spontaneously without associated infection or other illness, making it unlikely in this patient.
The most common initial symptoms of enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli are bloody diarrhea and abdominal tenderness, without fever. The timing of this patient's development of gastrointestinal symptoms, 1 day after presentation with hypotension secondary to urosepsis, makes the diagnosis of ischemic colitis more likely.

**Bibliography**

Trotter JM, Hunt L, Peter MB. Ischaemic colitis. BMJ. 2016;355:i6600. PMID: 28007701 doi:10.1136/bmj.i6600

This content was last updated in August 2018.