
### Correct Answer: B) Infliximab 

**Educational Objective:** Treat ileal Crohn disease.

#### **Key Point:** Anti–tumor necrosis factor agents such as infliximab are effective in inducing and maintaining remission in moderate to severe Crohn disease.

Infliximab is the most appropriate treatment for this patient. This patient has moderate to severe ileal Crohn disease that has required multiple courses of tapering prednisone for flares of disease over the last year, despite treatment with the immunomodulator azathioprine. Infliximab is an anti–tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α antagonist effective in inducing and maintaining remission in moderate to severe Crohn disease. Other FDA-approved anti-TNF agents include adalimumab and certolizumab pegol. Evidence indicates that efficacy is better when an anti-TNF agent is used together with an immunomodulator. In addition, the risk for developing antibodies against the anti-TNF agent is lower with combination therapy. Patients whose disease does not respond to one anti-TNF agent are often switched to a second or third anti-TNF agent. Fibrostenosing Crohn disease in the absence of ongoing mucosal inflammation is unlikely to respond to any anti-TNF agent. Patients with no response to or intolerance of anti-TNF agents should be treated with either surgery or a leukocyte trafficking blocker (natalizumab or vedolizumab).
Budesonide is a potent glucocorticoid with high first-pass metabolism in the liver, which limits systemic side effects related to conventional glucocorticoids. Budesonide can be an effective therapy for treating mild flares of ileal Crohn disease, but it is unlikely to induce remission in more severe Crohn disease and cannot be used to maintain remission.
Mesalamine agents are mainly used to treat ulcerative colitis of mild to moderate severity. Mesalamine may have efficacy in treating mild to moderate Crohn colitis, but it is not efficacious in treating small-bowel Crohn disease.
Reinitiating prednisone may induce remission of the patient's current disease flare, but it would not be helpful for maintenance of remission. Because this patient has required three separate tapering doses of glucocorticoids over the last year, she requires a medication such as infliximab that can both induce remission and maintain Crohn disease in remission.

**Bibliography**

Lichtenstein GR, Hanauer SB, Sandborn WJ; Practice Parameters Committee of American College of Gastroenterology. Management of Crohn's disease in adults. Am J Gastroenterol. 2009;104:465-83; quiz 464, 484. PMID: 19174807 doi:10.1038/ajg.2008.168

This content was last updated in August 2018.