
### Correct Answer: D) Upper endoscopy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose hereditary diffuse gastric cancer.

#### **Key Point:** A history of multiple family members with gastric cancer, particularly before age 50 years, or multiple family members with lobular breast cancer with or without gastric cancer, suggest the possibility of hereditary diffuse gastric cancer and the need for upper endoscopy and testing for mutations of the CDH1 gene.

Upper endoscopy is the most appropriate next test for this patient. The patient's presentation is suggestive of gastric cancer, specifically diffuse gastric cancer. Proposed criteria for selection of patients for genetic testing for hereditary diffuse gastric cancer include the following: family members with two or more documented cases of gastric cancer in first- or second-degree relatives, with at least one diffuse gastric cancer diagnosed before age 50 years; family members with multiple lobular breast cancers with or without diffuse gastric cancer in first- or second-degree relatives; and, a personal diagnosis of diffuse gastric cancer before age 35 years from a low-incidence population such as in Canada and the United States. Based on the patient's young age and history of multiple family members with gastric and lobular breast cancer, hereditary diffuse gastric cancer is a likely diagnosis. The best diagnostic test for gastric cancer is an upper endoscopy with multiple biopsies of the stomach. The syndrome of hereditary diffuse gastric cancer is associated with mutations in the CDH1 gene. The risk for diffuse gastric cancer approaches 80% in carriers of the mutation, and prophylactic gastrectomy is recommended in mutation carriers who have not developed gastric cancer.
A colonoscopy is not indicated as the initial test because the patient has primarily upper gastrointestinal symptoms. Colon polyps and cancer have been associated with hereditary diffuse gastric cancer, and more frequent screening colonoscopy for colon polyps is indicated in mutation carriers.
Delayed gastric emptying can present with abdominal pain and early satiety but is also often accompanied by nausea and vomiting. The patient has no risk factors for gastroparesis, such as diabetes mellitus, so a gastric emptying study is not indicated.
While Helicobacter pylori can present with dyspeptic symptoms, serological testing is not the most appropriate next step for this patient because his weight loss and family history raise concern for gastric cancer.
An upper gastrointestinal radiograph series might show thickened gastric folds related to diffuse gastric cancer, but it cannot be used to obtain biopsies to diagnose cancer.

**Bibliography**

Syngal S, Brand RE, Church JM, Giardiello FM, Hampel HL, Burt RW; American College of Gastroenterology. ACG clinical guideline: genetic testing and management of hereditary gastrointestinal cancer syndromes. Am J Gastroenterol. 2015;110:223-62; quiz 263. PMID: 25645574 doi:10.1038/ajg.2014.435

This content was last updated in August 2018.