
### Correct Answer: D) Continued observation 

**Educational Objective:** Manage drug-induced liver injury.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with well-preserved liver function, drug-induced liver injury should be managed with discontinuation of the offending medication and observation until resolution of symptoms occurs.

Continued observation is the most appropriate management of this patient. Drug-induced liver injury is a rare adverse reaction to medication that can result in jaundice, liver failure, and, potentially, death. This patient meets the criteria for diagnosis, which requires a history of drug or supplement exposure within 6 to 12 months, a biochemical pattern that fits the hepatotoxicity profile of the causative agent (in this case, cholestatic for amoxicillin-clavulanate), improvement after drug removal (dechallenge), and the absence of underlying liver or biliary diseases. The most common medications associated with drug-induced liver injury are antibacterial agents (especially amoxicillin-clavulanate) as well as herbal and dietary supplements. In this patient with drug-induced liver injury and well-preserved liver function, the offending medication has already been discontinued, and observation until resolution of symptoms occurs is the best course of action. The prognosis of drug-induced liver injury is generally good, with 70% of patients recovering without needing hospitalization and 90% recovering without developing acute liver failure.
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiography (ERCP) is used to treat biliary obstruction. In this setting, ultrasound has confirmed the absence of biliary dilation, and therefore, ERCP would not be expected to provide benefit.
A liver biopsy is rarely necessary in patients with drug-induced liver injury but is helpful in cases of uncertainty or suspected drug-induced autoimmune hepatitis. Zone 3 necrosis and eosinophilia are classic histologic findings in drug-induced liver injury, but other findings may include hepatitis, cholestasis, steatosis, or granulomas. This patient has a classic presentation, and a cholestatic biochemical profile and negative antibody tests make autoimmune hepatitis unlikely.
No specific antidotes are available for idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury. The administration of glucocorticoids like prednisone is not indicated unless there is suspicion for drug hypersensitivity reaction. The absence of a morbilliform rash, fever, facial swelling, lymphadenopathy, and substantially elevated aminotransferase levels make a hypersensitivity reaction unlikely and prednisone unnecessary in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Chalasani NP, Hayashi PH, Bonkovsky HL, Navarro VJ, Lee WM, Fontana RJ; Practice Parameters Committee of the American College of Gastroenterology. ACG clinical guideline: the diagnosis and management of idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury. Am J Gastroenterol. 2014;109:950-66; quiz 967. PMID: 24935270 doi:10.1038/ajg.2014.131

This content was last updated in August 2018.