
### Correct Answer: C) Cognitive-behavioral therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat centrally mediated abdominal pain syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Centrally mediated abdominal pain syndrome is characterized by near-constant abdominal pain lasting longer than 6 months, involving a large anatomic distribution, and without initiating triggers or alarm features.

Cognitive-behavioral therapy is the most appropriate treatment for this patient. She meets the diagnostic criteria for centrally mediated abdominal pain syndrome (CAPS): near-constant abdominal pain lasting longer than 6 months, involving a large anatomic distribution, and without initiating triggers or alarm features. Treatment includes a combination of pharmacologic and/or psychological therapies. She already takes a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor for depression, but it has not improved her abdominal pain syndrome. Four classes of psychotherapy have shown benefit in patients with CAPS when combined with medical therapy: cognitive-behavioral therapy, psychodynamic-interpersonal therapy, mindfulness- and acceptance-based therapy, and hypnotherapy.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a symptom complex characterized by abdominal pain and altered bowel habits. The diagnosis is made by the fulfillment of symptom-based criteria, including the presence of recurrent abdominal pain or discomfort at least 3 days per month in the last 3 months that is associated with two or more of the following: relief with defecation, onset associated with a change in frequency of stool, or onset associated with a change in form of stool. IBS is further subtyped based on the predominant stool pattern as IBS with predominant constipation (IBS-C), IBS with predominant diarrhea (IBS-D), mixed IBS, or IBS unclassified. CAPS differs from IBS in that there are no consistent initiating triggers and symptoms are not alleviated with bowel movements. The patient reports no constipation, and her pain is not relieved with bowel movements, so IBS is an unlikely diagnosis.
Alosetron is a 5-HT3 antagonist available for women with IBS-D whose symptoms have not responded to conventional therapy; however, owing to an increased risk for severe constipation and ischemic colitis with its use, it is restricted by a mandatory prescribing program. Because this patient does not have IBS, alosetron is not indicated.
Budesonide is indicated in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. This patient reports no chronic diarrhea, a hallmark symptom of inflammatory bowel disease, and a colonoscopy earlier this year was normal, showing no inflammation.
Linaclotide is a guanylate cyclase-C activator used in the treatment of IBS-C after fiber supplementation or osmotic and stimulatory laxative therapy fails. It has no role in the treatment of CAPS.

**Bibliography**

Keefer L, Drossman DA, Guthrie E, Simrén M, Tillisch K, Olden K, et al. Centrally mediated disorders of gastrointestinal pain. Gastroenterology. 2016. PMID: 27144628 doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2016.02.034

This content was last updated in August 2018.