
### Correct Answer: D) No transfusion 

**Educational Objective:** Treat upper gastrointestinal bleeding.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with upper gastrointestinal bleeding, a restrictive transfusion strategy (transfusion threshold of less than 7 g/dL [70 g/L] with a target hemoglobin level of 7-9 g/dL [70-90 g/L]) is associated with decreased mortality, length of hospital stay, and transfusion-related adverse events compared to a liberal transfusion strategy.

This patient does not require transfusion. For patients with upper gastrointestinal bleeding, initial resuscitation is the first priority and should include stabilization of blood pressure with infusion of sufficient volumes of crystalloid fluid and/or red blood cells. The decision to transfuse red blood cells is based mainly on the presenting hemoglobin level. In hemodynamically stable patients, a restrictive transfusion strategy (transfusion threshold of less than 7 g/dL [70 g/L] with a target hemoglobin level of 7-9 g/dL [70-90 g/L]) is associated with decreased mortality, length of hospital stay, and transfusion-related adverse events compared to a liberal transfusion strategy (transfusion threshold of less than 9 g/dL [90 g/L] with a target hemoglobin level of 9-10 g/dL [90-100 g/L]). This patient is hemodynamically and physiologically stable with no evidence of ongoing overt gastrointestinal blood loss or symptoms of tissue ischemia; therefore, it is appropriate to continue maintenance intravenous fluids because he is at an appropriate target hemoglobin level of 7 to 9 g/dL (70-90 g/L).
A modification of the restrictive transfusion threshold may be considered in specific subpopulations, such as patients with hypotension due to severe bleeding and patients with cardiovascular disease. It may be reasonable to give transfusions to patients who are hemodynamically unstable before a decline in hemoglobin level to less than 7 g/dL (70 g/L) to prevent complications of tissue underperfusion. There is uncertainty regarding the need for a higher transfusion threshold in patients with cardiovascular disease, but current guidelines recommend considering transfusion when hemoglobin levels decrease below 8 g/dL (80 g/L) or when cardiovascular symptoms develop (for example, chest pain, dyspnea) in patients who are otherwise hemodynamically stable.

**Bibliography**

Fortinsky KJ, Bardou M, Barkun AN. Role of medical therapy for nonvariceal upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Gastrointest Endosc Clin N Am. 2015;25:463-78. PMID: 26142032 doi:10.1016/j.giec.2015.02.003

This content was last updated in August 2018.