
### Correct Answer: C) Upper endoscopy 

**Educational Objective:** Screen for duodenal cancer in a patient with familial adenomatous polyposis syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Upper-endoscopy screening for duodenal cancer in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis should begin at onset of colonic polyposis or at age 25 to 30 years, whichever comes first.

Upper endoscopy with duodenoscopy is the most appropriate next test for this patient. The adenomatous polyposis syndromes include familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) and MutYH-associated polyposis (MAP). Patients with FAP and MAP should receive genetic counseling and should be offered genetic testing. Although an autosomal dominant disorder, a positive family history is found in only 54% to 78% of patients diagnosed with FAP. Upper endoscopy with duodenoscopy, using both a standard upper scope and a side viewing scope, is indicated to screen for periampullary and duodenal adenomas and adenocarcinoma. At least 50% of patients with FAP develop adenomatous changes of the periampullary region of the duodenum. Upper-endoscopy screening in patients with FAP should begin at the time of onset of colonic polyps or at age 25 to 30 years, whichever comes first. Upper endoscopy with duodenoscopy for surveillance of duodenal cancer is indicated every 1 to 5 years at an interval based on the stage of the duodenal polyposis.
A barium upper gastrointestinal series has a low sensitivity for periampullary and duodenal adenomas, which may be flat or sessile lesions, and it does not allow for tissue biopsy if lesions are found.
Double-balloon enteroscopy allows endoscopy to reach the entire small-bowel lumen and is used in patients with occult gastrointestinal blood loss to look for a source of bleeding and provide therapeutic options. It may also be used to remove small-bowel mucosal lesions such as adenomas if they are located beyond the reach of a standard esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD). Double-balloon enteroscopy requires longer anesthesia time and is higher-risk than standard EGD, and its availability is limited. Therefore, it is not the standard recommended procedure for initial screening for duodenal and periampullary adenomas in patients with FAP.
Patients with FAP should undergo upper endoscopy because there is more than a 50% chance of discovering duodenal adenomas at the first upper endoscopy. Conducting no further tests in this patient would be an inappropriate approach, given the high probability of finding one or more potentially premalignant lesions.

**Bibliography**

85Syngal S, Brand RE, Church JM, Giardiello FM, Hampel HL, Burt RW; American College of Gastroenterology. ACG clinical guideline: genetic testing and management of hereditary gastrointestinal cancer syndromes. Am J Gastroenterol. 2015;110:223-62; quiz 263. PMID: 25645574 doi:10.1038/ajg.2014.435

This content was last updated in August 2018.