
### Correct Answer: B) 3 years 

**Educational Objective:** Manage colonoscopy surveillance following polypectomy.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with three or more adenomas on screening colonoscopy should undergo surveillance colonoscopy in 3 years.

This patient should undergo surveillance colonoscopy in 3 years. Current recommendations emphasize that an adequate bowel preparation and a high-quality colonoscopy that reaches and examines the cecum are required for an adequate screening examination. Screening colonoscopy studies demonstrate that polyps are detected in approximately 60% of average-risk individuals. The prevalence of polyps on average-risk screening colonoscopy is 22% to 25% for adenomas, 12% for hyperplastic polyps, and 0.6% for sessile serrated polyps. The degree of dysplasia in a polyp is reported as high or low. Adenomatous polyps are neoplastic lesions and, therefore, have malignant potential; most colorectal cancers arise from adenomatous polyps. Adenomatous polyps are further defined by their glandular architecture: tubular, villous, or a combination of both. The most common pattern is tubular, followed by tubulovillous, with the least common pattern being villous. After neoplastic polyps (adenomas, sessile serrated polyps, or traditional serrated adenomas) are completely resected, postpolypectomy colonoscopy should be performed; the surveillance interval depends on the size, number, and pathology of the polyp. This patient was found to have three tubular adenomas smaller than 1 cm in size. The presence of three or more adenomas, any adenoma greater than or equal to 1 cm in size, or any adenoma with villous features or high-grade dysplasia has been associated with increased risk for metachronous neoplasia (multiple primary tumors developing at different time intervals), warranting a 3-year surveillance interval.
Guidelines recommend screening average-risk individuals beginning at age 50 years. Repeat colonoscopy is based on initial findings. Individuals with no adenomas should have a repeat colonoscopy in 10 years. Individuals who have two or fewer tubular adenomas are also considered low-risk for colon cancer and should repeat screening in 5 to 10 years. Appropriate follow-up recommendations after screening colonoscopy, including avoidance of inappropriate use of colonoscopy after removal of adenomatous polyps, are core gastroenterology quality measures.
High-risk findings include more than 10 polyps on baseline colonoscopic examination, which should prompt consideration for a polyposis syndrome. These individuals should have a follow-up colonoscopy in less than 3 years, depending on polyp burden and polyposis syndrome. Any patient who has a polyp removed piecemeal should return within 3 to 6 months for repeat colonoscopy, especially if there is any concern for incomplete polyp removal.

**Bibliography**

Lieberman DA, Rex DK, Winawer SJ, Giardiello FM, Johnson DA, Levin TR; United States Multi-Society Task Force on Colorectal Cancer. Guidelines for colonoscopy surveillance after screening and polypectomy: a consensus update by the US Multi-Society Task Force on Colorectal Cancer. Gastroenterology. 2012;143:844-57. PMID: 22763141 doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2012.06.001

This content was last updated in October 2020.