
### Correct Answer: C) Initiation of a tricyclic antidepressant 

**Educational Objective:** Treat functional dyspepsia.

#### **Key Point:** First-line treatment for functional dyspepsia is once-daily omeprazole for at least 4 weeks; if symptoms do not respond, a tricyclic antidepressant is the next recommended treatment.

Starting a trial of a tricyclic antidepressant is the most appropriate next step in the management of this patient. The patient has functional dyspepsia meeting the diagnostic criteria for epigastric pain syndrome: (1) bothersome postprandial fullness; (2) early satiety; (3) epigastric pain; and/or (4) epigastric burning for at least 3 days per week. These criteria should be met for the 3 months leading up to diagnosis, with symptoms starting at least 6 months before diagnosis and with no evidence of structural disease to explain the symptoms. The absence of an underlying organic disease is demonstrated by this patient's normal upper endoscopy, including gastric and small-bowel biopsies, as well as normal laboratory testing and the lack of alarm features such as vomiting, weight loss, or family history of gastrointestinal malignancy. Because she tested negative for Helicobacter pylori infection and her symptoms did not respond to a trial of once-daily omeprazole for a minimum of 4 weeks, the recommended next step in the treatment of functional dyspepsia is a trial of a tricyclic antidepressant. In the treatment of functional dyspepsia, this class of antidepressants was found to be more effective than other classes, including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors or serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors.
Given this patient's absence of alarm symptoms and normal laboratory test results, further structural testing with CT imaging or abdominal ultrasonography is likely to be of low yield; therefore, such testing is neither clinically indicated nor cost effective.
A gastric emptying test is used to evaluate suspected gastroparesis. Gastroparesis commonly presents with symptoms of early satiety, postprandial fullness, nausea, vomiting, upper abdominal pain, bloating, and weight loss; this patient's lack of compatible symptoms makes the diagnosis unlikely.
There is no evidence that a higher dose of a proton pump inhibitor performs better in the treatment of functional dyspepsia than once-daily omeprazole, which did not alleviate the patient's symptoms.

**Bibliography**

Moayyedi PM, Lacy BE, Andrews CN, Enns RA, Howden CW, Vakil N. ACG and CAG clinical guideline: management of dyspepsia. Am J Gastroenterol. 2017;112:988-1013. PMID: 28631728 doi:10.1038/ajg.2017.154

This content was last updated in August 2018.