
### Correct Answer: A) Discontinue the oral contraceptive agent 

**Educational Objective:** Manage hepatic adenoma.

#### **Key Point:** For women with asymptomatic hepatic adenomas smaller than 5 cm in size, estrogen-containing oral contraceptive agents should be discontinued, and follow-up liver imaging is recommended every 6 months for at least 2 years.

The most appropriate management is to discontinue the oral contraceptive agent. Hepatocellular adenomas are generally seen in women because they can be dependent on estrogen for growth. They may also occur in men, and these adenomas carry a higher risk for malignant transformation. Hepatic adenomas may also be associated with anabolic-steroid use, obesity, and the metabolic syndrome. They are often solitary, ranging in size from 1 to 30 cm. Most patients are asymptomatic, and the adenoma is discovered incidentally during imaging for unrelated problems or because of right-upper-quadrant abdominal pain. The diagnosis is often based on the characteristic imaging findings in a woman of reproductive age. Histology can confirm the diagnosis, but biopsy is not always needed in cases where imaging findings are characteristic; needle biopsy is avoided because it is associated with bleeding.
Hepatic adenomas may increase in size during pregnancy. Women with adenomas greater than 2 cm who are contemplating pregnancy, or who are pregnant, can be treated with radiofrequency ablation but the decision to treat and the treatment modality must be individualized.
The natural history and prognosis of hepatic adenomas is ill-defined. The risk for malignant transformation of hepatic adenomas is approximately 10%. Adenomas larger than 5 cm in size have an increased risk for bleeding that can occasionally cause hemodynamic compromise. In general terms, surgical resection is typically recommended for any symptomatic hepatic adenoma, adenomas 5 cm or larger, or an adenoma found in a male.
Asymptomatic women who are taking estrogen-containing oral contraceptive agents and who have adenomas smaller than 5 cm in size can be managed conservatively, as the risk for hemorrhage or malignant transformation is relatively low. However, liver imaging should be conducted every 6 months for at least 2 years to ensure that the lesion is not growing. Most adenomas tend to regress or even disappear when oral contraceptive agents are discontinued. Failure to regress, continued growth, or an elevation of the α-fetoprotein level may be an indication for surgical resection.

**Bibliography**

Marrero JA, Ahn J, Rajender Reddy K; Americal College of Gastroenterology. ACG clinical guideline: the diagnosis and management of focal liver lesions. Am J Gastroenterol. 2014;109:1328-47; quiz 1348. PMID: 25135008 doi:10.1038/ajg.2014.213

This content was last updated in August 2018.