
### Correct Answer: A) Cholecystostomy tube placement 

**Educational Objective:** Treat acalculous cholecystitis.

#### **Key Point:** Acalculous cholecystitis can present with biliary colic symptoms in the alert patient or with unexplained leukocytosis, sepsis, and jaundice in the critically ill patient.

Cholecystostomy tube placement is the most appropriate next step in management for this patient. She has risk factors as well as clinical and radiologic findings that are consistent with acalculous cholecystitis. Cholecystectomy is the definitive treatment for acalculous cholecystitis in stable patients. However, this patient is now hemodynamically unstable and, therefore, requires a temporizing cholecystostomy tube to allow time for her to stabilize and for gallbladder inflammation to improve before cholecystectomy. Risk factors for acalculous cholecystitis include diabetes mellitus, sepsis, trauma, burns, vasculitis, cardiovascular disease, mechanical ventilation, and total parenteral nutrition. Acalculous cholecystitis can present with biliary colic symptoms in the alert patient or with unexplained leukocytosis, sepsis, and jaundice in the critically ill patient. On physical examination, a mass may be palpated in the right upper quadrant. Ultrasound may show some of the features seen in this patient (distended gallbladder with wall thickening and pericholecystic fluid), gas bubbles in the fundus (“champagne sign”), or nonvisualization of the gallbladder altogether. No stones or sludge are present in the gallbladder. Management includes bacterial cultures, intravenous antibiotics to cover gram-negative organisms, and cholecystostomy tube placement in the unstable patient or cholecystectomy in the stable patient.
The role of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography with stenting is evolving. It has been used in case series to decompress the gallbladder in patients with acalculous cholecystitis, but it is not yet considered a first- or second-line treatment option due to less robust evidence to support this practice and the need for experienced endoscopists to perform the procedure.
A hepatobiliary iminodiacetic acid scan may be used when ultrasonography is equivocal, and it would show nonopacification of the gallbladder in cases of cholecystitis. It is unnecessary in this patient who has clinical and radiologic features consistent with acalculous cholecystitis.
This patient's ultrasonographic findings of a distended and thick-walled gallbladder with associated pericholecystic fluid and a lack of gallstones, in addition to her risk factors for acalculous cholecystitis, make further imaging, such as MR cholangiopancreatography, unnecessary and possibly dangerous due to the need for urgent gallbladder decompression.

**Bibliography**

Huffman JL, Schenker S. Acute acalculous cholecystitis: a review. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2010;8:15-22. PMID: 19747982 doi:10.1016/j.cgh.2009.08.034

This content was last updated in August 2018.