
### Correct Answer: A) Capsule endoscopy 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate the small bowel for a source of gastrointestinal bleeding.

#### **Key Point:** Capsule endoscopy is the most appropriate test to evaluate patients for causes of small-bowel bleeding after negative upper endoscopy and colonoscopy.

The most appropriate next step in management of this patient is capsule endoscopy. The patient has occult gastrointestinal bleeding, indicated by unexplained iron deficiency anemia with stool testing positive for occult blood and no source of bleeding identified on repeated endoscopy and colonoscopy. The next step is evaluation for potential small-bowel bleeding. Causes of small-bowel bleeding depend on the patient's age. In older patients, vascular lesions such as angiodysplasia account for up to 40% of cases. Capsule endoscopy is noninvasive and is generally able to visualize the entire small bowel. The main disadvantages are its inability to sample tissue or treat findings. Its overall diagnostic yield ranges from 30% to 70%. Capsule endoscopy is contraindicated in patients with gastroparesis, swallowing difficulty, and partial bowel obstructions, and in any patient who cannot undergo follow-up surgery. Capsule endoscopy has become the first-line test in evaluating the small bowel after a negative endoscopy and colonoscopy in patients with gastrointestinal bleeding of an unknown cause.
CT enterography should be considered for patients presenting with or having a history of small-bowel obstruction where a lesion or mass is suspected. Patients aged 40 years or younger who present with occult small-bowel bleeding are more likely to have tumors (leiomyoma, carcinoid, adenocarcinoma, or lymphoma) as the cause of bleeding.
Push enteroscopy is performed with advancement of the endoscope beyond the ligament of Treitz into the jejunum. The depth of insertion is operator dependent but is also limited because of looping of the scope in the stomach. The diagnostic yield is between 24% and 56%. The primary disadvantage of using push enteroscopy is that the amount of additional small bowel that can be examined is limited compared to capsule endoscopy; however, it does allow for tissue sampling and therapeutic intervention. Studies have shown that sequencing capsule endoscopy followed by push enteroscopy is an effective approach for management of occult small-bowel bleeding.
The diagnostic yield of radiographic imaging with small-bowel follow-through is very low (0%-5%) and, therefore, should not be used in the evaluation of suspected small-bowel bleeding.

**Bibliography**

Gerson LB, Fidler JL, Cave DR, Leighton JA. ACG clinical guideline: diagnosis and management of small bowel bleeding. Am J Gastroenterol. 2015;110:1265-87; quiz 1288. PMID: 26303132 doi:10.1038/ajg.2015.246

This content was last updated in August 2018.