
### Correct Answer: D) Tenofovir 

**Educational Objective:** Treat chronic hepatitis B viral infection in its immune-active, hepatitis B e antigen–positive phase.

#### **Key Point:** Chronic hepatitis B viral infection in the immune-active, hepatitis B e antigen–positive phase should be treated with tenofovir or entecavir to decrease hepatic inflammation and the risk for progression to fibrosis.

Tenofovir is the most appropriate treatment for this patient. Entecavir would be an equally suitable choice. Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is characteristically divided into phases of disease. Not all patients go through each phase. Patients in the immune-active or reactivation phases have an elevated alanine aminotransferase (ALT) level and an elevated HBV DNA level (in the immune-active phase, >20,000 IU/mL in hepatitis B e antigen [HBeAg]-positive disease or >2,000 IU/mL in HBeAg-negative disease, and in the reactivation phase, a rise above baseline HBV DNA level). The patient has chronic HBV infection in the immune-active, HBeAg-positive phase, with ALT and aspartate aminotransferase levels exceeding two times the upper limit of normal and HBV DNA exceeding 20,000 IU/mL. Treatment is necessary to decrease hepatic inflammation, risk for progression to fibrosis, and eventual cirrhosis that will occur without treatment. In approximately 50% of untreated patients with chronic HBV infection in the United States, HBV infection will contribute to the cause of death (from hepatocellular carcinoma or other complications of end-stage liver disease, such as cirrhosis). Patients who respond to treatment have a decreased risk of liver-related complications of HBV infection. Tenofovir or entecavir is first-line treatment for immune-active HBV infection because of low rates of resistance. Treatment goals for HBV infection in the immune-active, HBeAg-positive phase are loss of HBeAg and anti–hepatitis B e antibody seroconversion. For most patients, chronic treatment is necessary because seroconversion of HBeAg or hepatitis B surface antigen is not commonly achieved.
Adefovir and lamivudine are not preferred antiviral agents given the risk for HBV resistance. Resistance rates at 5 years are approximately 30% for adefovir and 70% for lamivudine.
In this patient, oral antiviral regimens are preferred over pegylated interferon because pegylated interferon may exacerbate psoriasis. Pegylated interferon is most appropriate for patients who have higher ALT levels, low HBV DNA levels, and no cirrhosis.

**Bibliography**

Terrault NA, Bzowej NH, Chang KM, Hwang JP, Jonas MM, Murad MH; American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases. AASLD guidelines for treatment of chronic hepatitis B. Hepatology. 2016;63:261-83. PMID: 26566064 doi:10.1002/hep.28156

This content was last updated in May 2019.