
### Correct Answer: C) Polyethylene glycol 3350 

**Educational Objective:** Treat irritable bowel syndrome with predominant constipation.

#### **Key Point:** Polyethylene glycol 3350 is a first-line treatment for patients whose symptoms meet the criteria for irritable bowel syndrome with predominant constipation.

A trial of polyethylene glycol (PEG) 3350 therapy is the most appropriate next step for this patient. She has abdominal discomfort and a change in bowel habits predominated by constipation; these symptoms fulfill the diagnostic criteria for irritable bowel syndrome with predominant constipation (IBS-C). Given her young age and lack of any alarm features, such as blood in the stool, anemia, or a first-degree family member with colon cancer, a diagnosis of IBS-C can be made and treatment can be initiated. The soluble fiber supplement psyllium has demonstrated limited efficacy in IBS, primarily addressing stool frequency and consistency. Insoluble fiber supplements such as bran appear to worsen IBS-C symptoms. Although various surfactant, osmotic, and stimulant laxatives can be used for the constipation symptoms associated with IBS-C, only the osmotic laxative PEG has been tested in IBS. PEG 3350 has demonstrated efficacy in IBS, and a trial of it is an appropriate first step in management.
A colonoscopy is not warranted, given this patient's age and the nature of her symptoms. The remote family history of colorectal cancer does not increase her risk enough to require a colonoscopy at this time.
This patient has no risk factors for small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, such as small-bowel disease, previous bowel resection, or a primary/secondary gastrointestinal motility disorder; therefore, a glucose breath test is not indicated. Bloating is commonly reported in patients with IBS. If bloating persists after correction of constipation, then testing for small intestinal bacterial overgrowth could be considered.
Although symptoms of bloating, abdominal pain, and constipation can occur in celiac disease, this patient's symptoms do not warrant serum anti–tissue transglutaminase antibody testing for celiac disease. Testing would be indicated if she had a first-degree relative with celiac disease or if she had symptoms of IBS with predominant diarrhea (IBS-D) or IBS with mixed diarrhea and constipation. Furthermore, results of testing for celiac antibodies such as the anti–tissue transglutaminase may be normal in patients on a gluten-free diet. The patient's response to gluten elimination does not necessarily indicate celiac disease because gluten is a FODMAP (Fermentable Oligosaccharides, Disaccharides, Monosaccharides, And Polyols) carbohydrate, which can cause bloating due to FODMAP intolerance.

**Bibliography**

Mearin F, Lacy BE, Chang L, Chey WD, Lembo AJ, Simren M, et al. Bowel disorders. Gastroenterology. 2016. PMID: 27144627 doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2016.02.031

This content was last updated in August 2018.