
### Correct Answer: C) Hepatorenal syndrome 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose hepatorenal syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with end-stage liver disease and portal hypertension, hepatorenal syndrome is characterized by the development of oliguric kidney failure, bland urine sediment, and marked sodium retention (edema, ascites, low urinary sodium).

Hepatorenal syndrome is the most likely diagnosis in this patient. In patients with end-stage liver disease and portal hypertension, hepatorenal syndrome is characterized by the development of oliguric kidney failure, bland urine sediment, and marked sodium retention (edema, ascites, low urinary sodium). Two types of hepatorenal syndrome have been recognized. Type 1 is characterized by acute kidney dysfunction and is usually triggered by a precipitating event such as spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, other infections, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, or a major surgical procedure. Type 2 is more common and is characterized by more slowly progressive kidney failure in patients with refractory ascites.
Type 1 hepatorenal syndrome is characterized by a rise in serum creatinine of at least 0.3 mg/dL (26 μmol/L) and/or ≥50% from baseline within 48 hours with a bland urinalysis and normal findings on renal ultrasonography. It is also supported by a lack of improvement in kidney function after withdrawal of diuretics and two days of volume expansion with intravenous albumin. Often patients with hepatorenal syndrome also have low urine sodium, low fractional excretion of sodium, and oliguria. In addition, patients should have no evidence of shock, no current or recent use of nephrotoxic drugs, and no evidence of renal parenchymal disease (proteinuria less than 0.5 g/day, no microhematuria, and normal renal ultrasound). The main treatment of hepatorenal syndrome is the removal of drugs that may reduce kidney perfusion and volume expansion. Ultimately, hepatorenal syndrome is a condition for which the only cure is liver transplantation.
Acute interstitial nephritis may be associated with drugs, infection, autoimmune diseases, and malignancy. It should be suspected in a patient who presents with an elevated serum creatinine level and urinalysis showing leukocytes, leukocyte casts, and possibly eosinophiluria; urinary sodium level is typically elevated.
Acute tubular necrosis is most commonly caused by ischemia or toxins (including drugs). Urinalysis typically shows pigmented granular (muddy brown) casts and tubular epithelial cells; urinary sodium is typically elevated.
Membranous glomerulonephritis is associated with the nephrotic syndrome (proteinuria, edema, hypertension, microhematuria) and erythrocytes or erythrocyte casts; urinary sodium can be low.

**Bibliography**

Glass L, Sharma P. Evidence-based therapeutic options for hepatorenal syndrome. Gastroenterology. 2016;150:1031-3. PMID: 26922867 doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2016.02.050

This content was last updated in August 2018.