
### Correct Answer: B) HIV testing 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate HIV as a cause of immune thrombocytopenic purpura.

#### **Key Point:** Immune thrombocytopenic purpura can be idiopathic, triggered by medications, or associated with other disorders, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, lymphoma, HIV, hepatitis C, or Helicobacter pylori infection.

Testing should be performed for HIV. Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is caused by autoantibodies directed against glycoproteins on the platelet surface. ITP is diagnosed when thrombocytopenia is found with no alternate cause. ITP can be idiopathic, triggered by medications, or associated with other disorders, such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), chronic lymphocytic leukemia, lymphoma, HIV, hepatitis C, or Helicobacter pylori infection. Unless additional cytopenias are discovered or other findings suggest an alternate diagnosis, a bone marrow biopsy in these patients is not necessary. ITP is not uncommon among patients with HIV infection, even early in the disease and in the absence of any other symptoms of immunosuppression or opportunistic infection. ITP is also associated with chronic hepatitis C that may also be asymptomatic. This patient's hepatitis C test was negative, so no further evaluation is needed; however, routine testing for HIV is recommended before starting any immunosuppressive treatment.
Unlike autoimmune hemolytic anemia, no diagnostic test is available for immune-mediated thrombocytopenia. Antiplatelet antibody testing is not recommended because of low sensitivity. Although recent advances in testing technology have increased specificity, they are not widely available. This test should not be performed in the evaluation of thrombocytopenia.
ITP may be associated with other autoimmune diseases, such as Hashimoto thyroiditis, or with SLE. This patient lacks any history of venous thromboembolism or fetal loss that would suggest an underlying anticardiolipin antibody syndrome and has no other clinical features to suggest SLE; testing for the lupus anticoagulant is unnecessary.
Although vitamin B12 and folate deficiency can result in thrombocytopenia, the patient's mean corpuscular volume is normal, so no evidence indicates cobalamin deficiency.

**Bibliography**

Neunert C, Lim W, Crowther M, Cohen A, Solberg L Jr, Crowther MA; American Society of Hematology. The American Society of Hematology 2011 evidence-based practice guideline for immune thrombocytopenia. Blood. 2011;117:4190-207. PMID: 21325604 doi:10.1182/blood-2010-08-302984

This content was last updated in September 2019.