
### Correct Answer: C) Radiation therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat early-stage laryngeal cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Early-stage laryngeal cancer is most appropriately treated with radiation alone because it is highly effective in that area, has low morbidity, and is associated with superior voice quality compared with patients who are treated with surgery.

The most appropriate treatment in this patient with early-stage laryngeal cancer is radiation therapy. In early-stage laryngeal cancer, it is important to consider predicted efficacy and anticipated voice quality and other potential functional impairments when deciding on a treatment plan. For patients with early-stage disease, cure rates are high with surgery and with radiation. For patients treated with surgery, the use of adjuvant radiation or combined chemotherapy and radiation is recommended based on findings at surgery. However, open hemilaryngectomy results in suboptimal functional outcomes and is associated with complications, including bleeding, infection, laryngocutaneous fistula, and aspiration. Radiation is highly effective with low morbidity, and functional outcomes are generally superior in patients with laryngeal cancer who are treated with radiation compared with those treated with surgery. Radiation therapy often causes xerostomia, thickening of saliva, mucositis, dysphagia, odynophagia, and malnutrition.
Use of combined chemotherapy and radiation is appropriate for patients with locally advanced laryngeal cancer who need total laryngectomy for effective treatment. The most commonly used agent is high-dose cisplatin. Cetuximab, a monoclonal antibody directed against the epidermal growth factor receptor, is also an accepted care option in this setting. However, these therapies are not indicated in patients with early-stage laryngeal cancer, who are effectively treated with radiation alone.

**Bibliography**

Chera BS, Amdur RJ, Morris CG, Kirwan JM, Mendenhall WM. T1N0 to T2N0 squamous cell carcinoma of the glottic larynx treated with definitive radiotherapy. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2010;78:461-6. PMID: 20153124 doi:10.1016/j.ijrobp.2009.08.066

This content was last updated in August 2018.