
### Correct Answer: E) Surgery 

**Educational Objective:** Treat stage I rectal cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Rectal cancers without full thickness penetration of the bowel wall or involved lymph nodes are stage I and are treated with surgical resection.

The most appropriate treatment is surgery. Based on the information available, this person has a T2N0, stage I midrectal cancer. Patients with rectal tumors that are not full thickness and do not have lymph node involvement (stage I) on pretreatment imaging usually undergo surgery, with a total mesorectal excision being the preferred procedure. The mesorectum is a fatty sheath covering the rectum that contains the regional lymph nodes. A total mesorectal excision entails a sharp dissection of the pelvis outside of the mesorectum to allow removal of the mesorectum fully intact en bloc with the rectum. Because this patient's tumor is 8 cm from the anal verge, this is a midrectal tumor. Resection of such a tumor would be anticipated to be sphincter sparing and so would not be anticipated to require a permanent colostomy. However, considerable expertise is required to avoid complications with this procedure, which should be performed only by a subspecialized surgeon.
If postoperative findings upstage the tumor to stage II or III, then consideration of further interventions, such as radiation or chemotherapy, may be warranted. However, data do not support a role for adding either chemotherapy or radiation therapy to the management of surgically confirmed stage I rectal cancer.

**Bibliography**

Allegra CJ, Yothers G, O’Connell MJ, Beart RW, Wozniak TF, Pitot HC, et al. Neoadjuvant 5-FU or capecitabine plus radiation with or without oxaliplatin in rectal cancer patients: a phase III randomized clinical trial. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2015;107. PMID: 26374429 doi:10.1093/jnci/djv248

This content was last updated in August 2018.