
### Correct Answer: C) Start G-CSF on day 2 of her subsequent cycles of therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent chemotherapy-induced neutropenia.

#### **Key Point:** Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor is effective for prophylaxis and secondary prophylaxis of neutropenia in patients undergoing chemotherapy but has little benefit in patients who are currently neutropenic.

This patient has fever and neutropenia caused by her chemotherapy and should start granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) with her next cycle of chemotherapy. Febrile neutropenia is defined as a single fever (101 °F [38.3 °C]) or sustained elevated temperature (38 °C [100.4 °F]) in a patient with a current or anticipated absolute neutrophil count less than 500 cells/µL (0.5 × 109/L). Most infections are believed to arise from the patient's endogenous flora. Neutropenia typically occurs 5 to 15 days after administration of chemotherapy. G-CSF and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor can be given prophylactically to patients receiving chemotherapeutic regimens that carry a high risk of neutropenia and as secondary prophylaxis in patients such as this one, who have had a previous episode.
In this patient, initiating G-CSF or pegylated G-CSF on day 2 of her next cycle of chemotherapy would reduce the risk of another bout of febrile neutropenia and help maintain the dose intensity of her chemotherapy.
Reducing this patient's dose of chemotherapy for the next cycle would not be an appropriate strategy to avoid neutropenia because she is a young patient being treated with curative intent, and reducing her chemotherapy dosages might compromise her outcome. The prophylactic use of G-CSF is a better strategy.
There is little benefit to starting G-CSF once a patient already has fever and neutropenia. Although there may be a slightly more rapid return of neutrophils, the benefit is minimal, and there is no demonstrated reduction in mortality.
Fluoroquinolone prophylaxis is typically reserved for high-risk patients with ongoing neutropenia. High-risk patients typically include those undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation or receiving induction chemotherapy for acute leukemia. Neither of these applies to this patient.

**Bibliography**

Smith TJ, Bohlke K, Lyman GH, et al; American Society of Clinical Oncology.Recommendations for the use of WBC growth factors: American Society of Clinical Oncology Clinical practice guideline update. J Clin Oncol. 2015 Oct 1;33(28):3199-212. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2015.62.3488. PMID: 26169616

This content was last updated in August 2018.