
### Correct Answer: B) Oral imatinib 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a gastrointestinal stromal tumor with imatinib.

#### **Key Point:** High-risk gastrointestinal stromal tumors should be treated with surgery and 3 years of adjuvant imatinib.

The most appropriate management for this patient is oral imatinib for 3 years. Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) most commonly occur in the stomach, although they can arise anywhere in the digestive tract. Although rare, they are the most common sarcoma of the digestive tract. Location outside of the stomach, larger size, and higher mitotic index are all factors that increase the risk of recurrence after resection and indicate use of adjuvant therapy. Almost all GISTs have an activating mutation in the c-KIT proto-oncogene, leading to constitutive activation of the KIT receptor tyrosine kinase. Therefore, she should be treated with the small-molecule receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib, which blocks c-KIT tyrosine kinase phosphorylation. In such high-risk patients, recurrence-free survival and overall survival are superior in patients who receive 3 years of imatinib therapy compared with 1 year of therapy.
Rituximab is a genetically engineered chimeric monoclonal antibody against CD20, a B-cell specific surface antigen. CD20 regulates cell cycle initiation. Rituximab binds to the antigen on the cell surface, activating complement-dependent B-cell cytotoxicity, and binds to human Fc receptors, mediating cell killing through an antibody-dependent cellular toxicity. Rituximab is used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, ANCA-related vasculitis, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. As predicted by its mechanism of action, it is not effective in the treatment of GIST.
Because GISTs are relatively resistant to radiation therapy, such treatment is not used after a complete resection.
Small gastric GISTs with low mitotic indices may often be managed with surgery alone, but because this patient has a GIST with several factors that increase the risk of recurrence, observation without further therapy is not sufficient.

**Bibliography**

Joensuu H, Eriksson M, Sundby Hall K, Hartmann JT, Pink D, Schütte J, et al. One vs three years of adjuvant imatinib for operable gastrointestinal stromal tumor: a randomized trial. JAMA. 2012;307:1265-72. PMID: 22453568 doi:10.1001/jama.2012.347

This content was last updated in August 2018.