
### Correct Answer: B) Mediastinoscopy 

**Educational Objective:** Manage superior vena cava syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Most patients with superior vena cava syndrome do not require emergency intervention, and a tissue biopsy should be obtained.

This patient has symptoms, signs, and CT scan findings consistent with superior vena cava (SVC) syndrome due to a mediastinal malignancy, with symptoms developing over 2 weeks, and should receive a mediastinoscopy. It is important to establish a tissue diagnosis before treatment. There are no peripheral sites to biopsy in this case: the only abnormal result found on imaging and examination is the mediastinal mass. Although some patients may be unable to have surgery if they are in severe respiratory distress, are hemodynamically unstable, or have evidence of cerebral edema, most patients who present with SVC syndrome can tolerate a surgical biopsy. Mediastinoscopy with biopsy has a diagnostic yield of over 90% and is more likely than core biopsies to obtain specimens adequate for determining nodal architecture and histologic subtype if a lymphoma is present. SVC syndrome is caused by thrombosis or other nonmalignant obstructions in about 35% of cases. Of malignant causes, approximately 75% are due to lung cancers, with non-small cell lung cancers most common. Lymphoma and metastatic cancer each cause about 10% of cases; thymoma, germ cell cancer, and mesothelioma are each present in 1% to 3% of cases.
Dexamethasone is often used to treat SVC syndrome and, particularly in lymphomas, may decrease symptoms. However, dexamethasone may obscure histologic findings in lymphomas, and a biopsy should be done before starting the patient on glucocorticoids.
Percutaneous intravascular stents can be placed in patients with respiratory distress before tissue biopsy, but this patient is not having respiratory distress and does not require stent placement.
Radiation requires an initial tissue diagnosis and is used as initial treatment in some but not all malignancies that cause SVC syndrome. If this patient has a lymphoma, as is clinically most likely, she would be treated with initial chemotherapy.

**Bibliography**

Wilson LD, Detterbeck FC, Yahalom J. Clinical practice. Superior vena cava syndrome with malignant causes. N Engl J Med. 2007;356:1862-9. Erratum in: N Engl J Med. 2008 Mar 6;358(10):1083. PMID: 17476012

This content was last updated in August 2018.