
### Correct Answer: C) Cisplatin plus radiation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat locally advanced head and neck cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Combined chemotherapy and radiation improves survival in patients with locally advanced head and neck cancer after surgery when there are positive surgical margins or evidence of nodal metastases with extracapsular extension.

The most appropriate treatment is cisplatin plus radiation. Treatment of head and neck cancer in the adjuvant setting depends heavily on the results of pathologic analysis of the resection specimen. This should include assessment of human papillomavirus (HPV) status based on tumor staining for p16, a viral protein. HPV has been found to be responsible for most oropharynx cancers (tonsil and base of tongue). Most patients diagnosed with HPV-associated head and neck cancer are younger than expected and do not have traditional risk factors, such as the patient in this case. Positivity for HPV has a significant impact on prognosis but does not yet affect treatment decision making. Options for treatment include no adjuvant therapy, radiation alone, and combined chemotherapy and radiation. No adjuvant therapy is required for early-stage cancers with no high-risk pathologic features, such as poorly differentiated histology and lymphovascular invasion. For early-stage cancers with high-risk features and for some locally advanced cancers (specifically any node-positive cancer), radiation alone is appropriate. Combined chemotherapy and radiation has been shown to improve survival in patients with locally advanced cancer after surgery when there are positive surgical margins or evidence of nodal metastases with extracapsular extension. Extracapsular extension refers to squamous cell carcinoma that breaks through the outer capsule of the lymph node and extends into surrounding tissues. Notably, the number of lymph nodes involved has not been clearly shown to be a predictor of benefit with combined chemotherapy and radiation adjuvant therapy. This patient underwent surgery and had evidence of extracapsular extension; therefore, combined cisplatin and radiation is the most appropriate adjuvant treatment.
Chemotherapy alone, either with single-agent cisplatin or cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy, is not indicated. Adjuvant chemotherapy has not been shown to improve survival or other treatment outcomes in this setting.
Vaccination of children before sexual activity is important in the primary prevention of HPV infection and the reduction of the incidence of oropharyngeal, cervical, and anal cancers associated with this virus. Immunization plays no role in patients who are already infected with HPV.
Radiation alone is not indicated owing to the presence of extracapsular extension.

**Bibliography**

Adelstein D, Gillison ML, Pfister DG, Spencer S, Adkins D, Brizel DM, et al. NCCN guidelines insights: head and neck cancers, version 2.2017. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2017;15:761-770. PMID: 28596256 doi:10.6004/jnccn.2017.0101

This content was last updated in August 2018.