
### Correct Answer: B) Adjuvant chemotherapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat stage II non–small cell lung cancer with adjuvant chemotherapy after resection.

#### **Key Point:** Adjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy for stage II and stage III non–small cell lung cancer provides a survival advantage.

The most appropriate treatment is adjuvant chemotherapy. Most (80%) lung cancers are non–small cell lung cancers (NSCLCs), with the most common type being adenocarcinoma of the lung. Current treatment options for NSCLCs include surgical resection, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and targeted therapies. Several studies have found a small but significant survival benefit associated with adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with stage II and stage III NSCLC. Although both cisplatin- and carboplatin-based chemotherapy regimens have been studied, only cisplatin-based chemotherapy has been shown to improve survival. At least four different cisplatin-based combination regimens can be used for adjuvant chemotherapy treatment; however, patients must be selected carefully because toxicity can be substantial. Based on this survival benefit, cisplatin-based chemotherapy is recommended after surgery for stage II and stage III NSCLC in patients such as this one without contraindications to chemotherapy.
Combined chemotherapy and radiation has not been shown to improve outcomes in patients with NSCLC after surgery with negative margins. Combined chemotherapy and radiation is used, however, as a primary therapy for patients with stage III lung cancer with clinically evident mediastinal lymphadenopathy noted at the time of initial evaluation; this is because this group of patients does not typically fare well with surgery.
Radiation as a single modality has no role in the adjuvant treatment of resected NSCLC in the absence of positive surgical margins. In the presence of positive margins, it is reasonable to recommend radiation.
Observation is not recommended as a routine management strategy because of the survival benefit associated with chemotherapy treatment. Observation would be appropriate only for a patient who could not be treated with chemotherapy owing to medical contraindications or personal preference.

**Bibliography**

Pignon JP, Tribodet H, Scagliotti GV; LACE Collaborative Group. Lung adjuvant cisplatin evaluation: a pooled analysis by the LACE Collaborative Group. J Clin Oncol. 2008 Jul 20;26(21):3552-9. PMID: 18506026

This content was last updated in August 2018.