
### Correct Answer: D) Supportive management and hospice care 

**Educational Objective:** Manage cancer of unknown primary site in a patient with poor performance status.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with several comorbidities and poor performance status are unlikely to benefit from aggressive chemotherapy, and such treatment is likely to cause serious or life-threatening toxicity.

This patient should receive supportive management and hospice care. He has moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of unknown primary site with extensive metastatic disease and severe debilitation, jaundice, and evidence of substantial nutritional deficiency as indicated by cachexia, bitemporal wasting, and hypoalbuminemia. This is a patient who is too debilitated and deconditioned to have a realistic chance of benefit from chemotherapy, and the most appropriate management is to focus on symptom control and comfort. Hospice care would be the most effective means of accomplishing these goals.
In a more medically fit patient with adenocarcinoma in a predominantly abdominal pattern, treatment with a gastrointestinal chemotherapy regimen, such as 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), leucovorin, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX); 5-FU, leucovorin, and irinotecan (FOLFIRI); or 5-FU, leucovorin, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin (FOLFIRINOX) would be a reasonable consideration; however, this patient is too debilitated to tolerate these treatments.
A platinum-based germ cell regimen would be appropriate for a younger patient with a midline poorly differentiated carcinoma, but this patient does not meet these criteria and, again, is too sick to tolerate this treatment.
Hepatic arterial embolization is an appropriate consideration for patients with well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumors or primary liver cancer who are well enough to tolerate such treatments and whose disease is largely confined to the liver.

**Bibliography**

Fizazi K, Greco FA, Pavlidis N, Daugaard G, Oien K, Pentheroudakis G; ESMO Guidelines Committee. Cancers of unknown primary site: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol. 2015;26 Suppl 5:v133-8. PMID: 26314775 doi:10.1093/annonc/mdv305

This content was last updated in August 2018.