
### Correct Answer: C) CT scan of the abdomen 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose renal cell carcinoma in a patient with erythrocytosis.

#### **Key Point:** Erythrocytosis is a common paraneoplastic syndrome associated with kidney cancer.

The most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next is CT scan of the abdomen. Although symptomatic erythrocytosis is most commonly associated with myeloproliferative neoplasms, such as polycythemia vera, it is important to assess for all possible causes. This patient has symptomatic erythrocytosis in the setting of a markedly elevated erythropoietin level and in the absence of organomegaly. This combination of findings is most consistent with autonomous production of erythropoietin, most commonly by an underlying tumor. Tumors known to be associated with this paraneoplastic syndrome include kidney cancer and, less frequently, hepatocellular carcinoma, cerebellar hemangioblastoma, pheochromocytoma, and uterine myomata. Clues to tumor-related erythrocytosis may include microscopic hematuria (kidney cancer); abnormal liver chemistry test results, hepatitis B, hemochromatosis, or cirrhosis (hepatocellular); headache, abnormal neurological findings (hemangioblastoma); hypertension, abnormal electrolyte levels, or hyperglycemia (pheochromocytoma); and menorrhagia (uterine myomata). In the absence of suggestive symptoms or findings, a CT scan of the abdomen is indicated as the first study for further evaluation of this patient.
Bone marrow biopsy and serum JAK-2 mutation testing can be done to evaluate for possible underlying polycythemia vera. However, polycythemia vera is most commonly seen in the setting of a low or an undetectable erythropoietin level, not with a markedly elevated level as seen in this patient. In addition, polycythemia vera is commonly associated with an elevated leukocyte and platelet count, as well as hepatosplenomegaly, but these are not present in this patient. These findings make the diagnosis of polycythemia vera less likely; therefore, testing to evaluate for that diagnosis is not indicated as initial management.
Chest radiography has no role in this patient's evaluation because lung cancer is not associated with paraneoplastic erythrocytosis. In addition, chest radiography cannot evaluate for any of the cancers that are associated with erythrocytosis.

**Bibliography**

Morais C, Johnson DW, Vesey DA, Gobe GC. Functional significance of erythropoietin in renal cell carcinoma. BMC Cancer. 2013 Jan 10;13:14. PMID: 23305401

This content was last updated in August 2018.