
### Correct Answer: D) Resection of all lesions 

**Educational Objective:** Treat oligometastatic liver metastases of colorectal cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with recurrent colorectal cancer in a single organ in an oligometastatic pattern are candidates for surgery with curative intent.

The most appropriate management is resection of all lesions. The role of postoperative surveillance in patients with colorectal cancer is to identify surgically curable recurrence, such as oligometastatic liver disease or lung metastases. The liver is the primary metastatic site for patients with colorectal cancer. About one third of patients with metastatic disease will have it confined to the liver and will be amenable to surgical resection and cure, with or without adjuvant chemotherapy. The criteria for surgical resection of hepatic metastases have expanded from the “three lesions or less” rule. Most patients with good performance status can be considered for surgical resection unless they have one of three conditions: tumor involvement of the common artery or portal vein or common bile duct; more than 70% liver involvement, more than six involved segments, or involvement of all three hepatic veins; and a predicted inadequate hepatic reserve after resection. This patient has recurrent colorectal cancer in a single organ in an oligometastatic pattern. As such, he is a candidate for surgery with curative intent.
Hepatic arterial embolization is not routinely used to treat colorectal cancer because colorectal tumors tend not to be very vascular. Further, it is a palliative, noncurative intervention. It is more appropriately considered in the management of unresectable neuroendocrine tumors or primary liver cancers.
A needle biopsy should not be done because it will not change management. The clinical presentation in this patient is compelling enough to diagnose recurrent colorectal cancer; a negative needle biopsy specimen would be assumed to be a false negative and would not alter management. Surgical resection would be the appropriate intervention regardless of the results of a biopsy.
Because this cancer is potentially curable, palliative chemotherapy should not be considered.

**Bibliography**

Smith JJ, D’Angelica MI. Surgical management of hepatic metastases of colorectal cancer. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2015;29:61-84. PMID: 25475573 doi:10.1016/j.hoc.2014.09.003

This content was last updated in August 2018.