
### Correct Answer: B) Four-factor prothrombin complex concentrate 

**Educational Objective:** Reverse warfarin anticoagulation with four-factor prothrombin complex concentrate.

#### **Key Point:** Four-factor prothrombin complex concentrate should be used to reverse the effects of warfarin anticoagulation in patients experiencing severe bleeding and those requiring urgent surgery.

This patient should be given four-factor prothrombin complex concentrate (4f-PCC). Patients who receive anticoagulation with a vitamin K antagonist have an increased risk for major gastrointestinal and central nervous system bleeding and an increased risk for periprocedural bleeding. Although vitamin K alone can be effective in reversing the effect of warfarin, its hemostatic effect can take several hours, and, in urgent situations, simultaneous replacement of the vitamin K–dependent coagulation factors is necessary. 4f-PCC contains factors II, VII, IX, and X as a lyophilized powder and can be administered quickly in a small reconstituted volume. It provides effective hemostasis 90% of the time and is the preferred option for most patients who require urgent warfarin reversal. Thromboembolism is a potential adverse effect. 4f-PCC should be avoided in patients with a history of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia because it contains residual heparin.
Cryoprecipitate would be indicated to treat severe hypofibrinogenemia, usually arising as a consequence of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) or severe liver disease. There is no reason to anticipate DIC in this patient, and he has no history of liver disease.
Plasma transfusion is more time consuming (preparation and administration) and is associated with a much higher risk of fluid overload from the volume needed to replace the coagulation factors. It is no longer the best option to reverse warfarin with the availability of 4f-PCC.
Idarucizumab is a monoclonal antibody that binds the non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulant dabigatran and causes a rapid reduction in available dabigatran in the body for up to 24 hours. Idarucizumab will not reverse warfarin anticoagulation.

**Bibliography**

Goldstein JN, Refaai MA, Milling TJ Jr, Lewis B, Goldberg-Alberts R, Hug BA, et al. Four-factor prothrombin complex concentrate versus plasma for rapid vitamin K antagonist reversal in patients needing urgent surgical or invasive interventions: a phase 3b, open-label, non-inferiority, randomised trial. Lancet. 2015;385:2077-87. PMID: 25728933 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(14)61685-8

This content was last updated in August 2018.