
### Correct Answer: A) Left axillary dissection and management as primary breast cancer 

**Educational Objective:** Treat carcinoma of unknown primary site in a woman with isolated axillary lymph node metastases.

#### **Key Point:** Women with isolated axillary lymph-node adenocarcinoma metastases should be presumptively considered to have locoregional breast cancer and should be treated as such.

The most appropriate management is to treat an axillary presentation of adenocarcinoma in a woman as a likely primary breast cancer. Patients with cancer of unknown primary involving a single lymph node or single lymph node region may have potentially treatable disease. Women with isolated axillary lymphadenopathy that is found to be an adenocarcinoma or a poorly differentiated carcinoma should be assumed to have locoregional breast cancer until proved otherwise. Breast MRI is indicated in this setting and reveals a primary breast mass in 50% to 70% of patients. In addition, immunohistochemical staining for estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, HER2 expression, and other breast cancer−specific markers should be performed on the biopsy specimen to help establish the diagnosis of breast tumor and guide therapy.
If the breast MRI scan is normal, the patient should be managed as for primary breast cancer and should undergo axillary lymph node dissection. Although in the past mastectomy was typically recommended in this setting, if no primary cancer is detected on the mammogram or breast MRI scan, axillary dissection with subsequent breast and axillary radiation is an accepted alternative to mastectomy. In patients with triple-negative breast cancer with axillary node involvement, adjuvant chemotherapy is indicated and can be given either before or after axillary dissection.
The management and prognosis are similar whether or not a primary breast cancer is identified, and, in the absence of distant metastases, patients should be treated with curative intent. Women who are found to have other sites of metastatic adenocarcinoma in addition to the axillary lymph node should be treated for metastatic breast cancer.
Letrozole is a hormonal therapy used for hormone receptor−positive breast cancers. This patient's cancer is estrogen and progesterone receptor–negative, and she would not receive any benefit from adjuvant hormonal therapy.
Radiation to the breast and axilla will be recommended after completing surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy but is not given as initial management before these other modalities.
Given the potential curability of this cancer, observation alone would also be inadequate.

**Bibliography**

Fizazi K, Greco FA, Pavlidis N, Daugaard G, Oien K, Pentheroudakis G; ESMO Guidelines Committee. Cancers of unknown primary site: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol. 2015;26 Suppl 5:v133-8. PMID: 26314775 doi:10.1093/annonc/mdv305

This content was last updated in August 2018.