
### Correct Answer: D) Rasburicase and intravenous hydration 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent tumor lysis syndrome in a patient with Burkitt lymphoma.

#### **Key Point:** Burkitt lymphoma often presents with early signs of tumor lysis, and it is important to institute tumor lysis syndrome prophylaxis before initiation of chemotherapy.

The most appropriate treatment is the administration of rasburicase along with intravenous hydration with normal saline and furosemide. Malignancies associated with rapid cell turnover can release large quantities of electrolytes and procoagulants into the circulation, causing the potentially life-threatening complication of tumor lysis syndrome. Spontaneous tumor lysis syndrome occurs commonly in patients with leukemia and Burkitt lymphoma and after treatment of bulky large B-cell lymphoma or advanced chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Rapid cell breakdown results in hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hyperuricemia, hypocalcemia, and disseminated intravascular coagulation. Hyperuricemia can lead to uric acid nephropathy and acute kidney injury. In this patient, proceeding with rasburicase, intravenous hydration, and furosemide with plans for prompt initiation of systemic therapy is appropriate. Rasburicase can rapidly and effectively lower serum urate levels and reduce the risk of acute uric acid nephropathy seen with tumor lysis syndrome. Because of its rapid onset of action and ability to lower urate levels quickly, which may be renoprotective, rasburicase should be administered before initiation of chemotherapy in patients with underlying kidney disease or those with signs of kidney disease, including an elevated serum creatinine level and a low urine output. Intravenous hydration with diuretics to maintain a high urine output is also key to reducing the risk of kidney failure and managing hyperkalemia and hyperphosphatemia, as well as hyperuricemia.
Large-volume intravenous hydration with normal saline plus administration of allopurinol to limit hyperuricemia is usually effective to prevent tumor lysis syndrome. However, this patient has hyperuricemia and an elevated serum creatinine level, making rasburicase preferred to allopurinol.
Whereas glucocorticoids and radiation therapy may be effective at shrinking this patient's tumors, such therapy will not prevent and will likely exacerbate tumor lysis syndrome.

**Bibliography**

Casulo C, Friedberg J. Treating Burkitt lymphoma in adults. Curr Hematol Malig Rep. 2015;10:266-71. PMID: 26013028 doi:10.1007/s11899-015-0263-4

This content was last updated in August 2018.