
### Correct Answer: C) Leuprolide and an aromatase inhibitor 

**Educational Objective:** Treat breast cancer using ovarian suppression along with aromatase-inhibitor therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Ovarian suppression along with antiestrogen therapy is recommended to decrease breast cancer recurrence in women with high-risk, early-stage, hormone receptor–positive breast cancer who remain premenopausal after chemotherapy.

The most appropriate treatment is leuprolide and an aromatase inhibitor. Two prospective randomized clinical trials have shown the superiority of ovarian suppression with leuprolide plus an aromatase inhibitor, such as exemestane, over ovarian suppression plus tamoxifen or tamoxifen alone in premenopausal women with higher-risk hormone receptor–positive early breast cancer.
Analyzing the trials together, disease-free survival at 5 years was 91.1% in the ovarian-suppression-plus-exemestane group and 88.3% in the ovarian-suppression-plus-tamoxifen group. Overall survival was the same in both groups. Compared with tamoxifen alone, ovarian suppression with tamoxifen improved disease-free survival, which was further improved by ovarian suppression plus exemestane. The benefit was particularly dramatic in women younger than 35 years who had a 15.7% absolute improvement in 5-year disease-free survival with the use of ovarian suppression and exemestane compared to tamoxifen alone. Adverse effects were seen more frequently in the patients on ovarian suppression, and by 4 years, 21% of patients had stopped ovarian suppression due to side effects. In patients who do not tolerate initial treatment with ovarian suppression and exemestane, ovarian suppression with tamoxifen can be used, transitioning to an aromatase inhibitor after 2 to 3 years if tolerated.
An aromatase inhibitor is ineffective in premenopausal women unless concomitant ovarian suppression is given.
The benefit of ovarian suppression alone is similar to tamoxifen alone and inferior to the option of ovarian suppression and an aromatase inhibitor.
In patients who require initial chemotherapy and remain premenopausal, treatment with tamoxifen alone has a higher risk of breast cancer recurrence than ovarian suppression plus an aromatase inhibitor.

**Bibliography**

Pagani O, Regan MM, Walley BA, Fleming GF, Colleoni M, Láng I, et al; TEXT and SOFT Investigators. Adjuvant exemestane with ovarian suppression in premenopausal breast cancer. N Engl J Med. 2014;371:107-18. PMID: 24881463 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1404037

This content was last updated in August 2018.