
### Correct Answer: E) Observation by serial CT scanning 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a residual mass after treatment of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.

#### **Key Point:** In a patient with a residual mass after treatment of bulky diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, observation with serial CT scanning is appropriate if diagnostic testing shows a low likelihood of active disease.

For this patient with a residual mass after treatment for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, the appropriate management is observation with serial CT scanning to ensure that the mass is stable. This patient's current CT and PET scan results demonstrate an excellent response to therapy. Her disease was characterized by bulky retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy, and it is probable that the residual mass found on CT scan represents scar tissue rather than viable tumor. Bulky lymphoma masses, when treated with effective systemic therapy, often do not show complete resolution by CT scan. The PET scan results also suggest the absence of active disease, although PET scan is not 100% sensitive or specific. In this circumstance, observation by serial CT (with or without further PET scanning) is most appropriate.
An autologous stem cell transplant could be an appropriate option for a patient with relapsed or residual disease. Even if the PET scan showed higher residual uptake, given the potential for false-positive CT and PET scan results, proceeding to further therapy without tissue documentation of recurrence would not be appropriate.
Although biopsy could be considered to document the presence or absence of viable lymphoma (and should be done to definitively document disease before initiation of any salvage treatment), this procedure could be deferred in a patient with a low suspicion for disease who has a favorable CT scan and metabolic response by PET, unless there are reasons to expect residual or progressive disease.
Consolidative radiation therapy has been used for patients with large cell lymphoma and initial bulky disease and residual mass. This treatment can decrease the risk of local recurrence; however, routine use has not been proven to improve survival or cure, and many patients without active disease would be irradiated.

**Bibliography**

Thanarajasingam G, Bennani-Baiti N, Thompson CA. PET-CT in staging, response evaluation, and surveillance of lymphoma. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2016;17:24. PMID: 27032646 doi:10.1007/s11864-016-0399-z

This content was last updated in August 2018.