
### Correct Answer: B) Intravenous and intraperitoneal cisplatin and paclitaxel chemotherapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat advanced ovarian cancer with intravenous and intraperitoneal chemotherapy.

#### **Key Point:** Intravenous and intraperitoneal cisplatin and paclitaxel chemotherapy is a treatment option for patients with advanced ovarian cancer.

The most appropriate initial treatment for this patient with advanced ovarian cancer is intravenous (IV) and intraperitoneal (IP) cisplatin and paclitaxel chemotherapy. This treatment is associated with a 16-month improvement in median overall survival in women with stage III ovarian cancer and no residual mass greater than 1 cm after surgical debulking compared with intravenous chemotherapy alone. Patients receiving IP/IV chemotherapy have a higher incidence of toxicities, including leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, fever, infection, fatigue, pain, and gastrointestinal events. Less than half of patients starting IP/IV therapy can complete all six cycles of therapy. However, the National Cancer Institute encourages the use of IP/IV chemotherapy for optimally debulked stage III ovarian cancer. Obstacles to the widespread adoption of IP/IV chemotherapy include not only the higher toxicities but also placement of an IP catheter and training of nursing staff in IP chemotherapy administration. The original IP/IV regimen required hospitalization for the first 3 days of each cycle. Modified regimens that allow all treatment to be given on an outpatient basis are now accepted options.
High-dose chemotherapy with hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is not recommended for the treatment of ovarian cancer, neither as initial treatment nor after recurrence.
Patients with left colon or rectosigmoid resections had a higher risk of discontinuing IP therapy, so this approach is no longer recommended in patients who undergo bowel resection. The types of catheters used have improved, with fewer catheter-related problems.
Olaparib is approved for use to treat relapsed ovarian cancer in women with BRCA1 or BRCA2 germline mutations. This oral poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor is FDA approved as monotherapy for patients with germline BRCA-mutated advanced ovarian cancer previously treated with three or more lines of chemotherapy. Patients with germline BRCA1- or BRCA2-associated cancers show responses in ovarian, breast, pancreatic, and prostate cancers, with a 31% response rate and median duration of response of 7 months in platinum-resistant ovarian cancers. Olaparib is also approved for maintenance therapy for patients with BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations with a complete or partial remission after first-line platinum-based chemotherapy. However, it is not used as initial therapy in ovarian cancer.

**Bibliography**

Wright AA, Cronin A, Milne DE, et al. Use and effectiveness of intraperitoneal chemotherapy for treatment of ovarian cancer. J Clin Oncol. 2015 Sep 10;33(26):2841-7. PMID: 26240233

This content was last updated in May 2019.