
### Correct Answer: D) Tamoxifen 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hormone receptor–positive breast cancer in a premenopausal patient with primary breast radiation and tamoxifen.

#### **Key Point:** Primary breast radiation and tamoxifen are indicated for premenopausal patients with node-negative, hormone receptor–positive, HER2-negative breast cancer with low-risk recurrence scores.

In addition to primary breast radiation, this patient should receive adjuvant tamoxifen. She has a 2.5-cm, node-negative, hormone receptor–positive, HER2-negative breast cancer. Gene-expression assays, such as the 21-gene recurrence score, are helpful in determining the benefit of adding adjuvant chemotherapy to tamoxifen in patients with node-negative, hormone receptor–positive, HER2-negative breast cancer. The 21-gene recurrence score has been shown to be not only prognostic for the risk of distant recurrence but also predictive for the magnitude of benefit of adding chemotherapy to tamoxifen.
A prospective trial of patients with hormone receptor–positive, HER2-negative, node-negative breast cancers with 21-gene recurrence scores of 0 to 10 was published in November 2015. The 5-year rate of freedom from recurrence of breast cancer at a distant or local site was 98.7% with endocrine therapy alone. This is standard care for patients with early breast cancer with these characteristics.
Adjuvant chemotherapy, given either alone or followed by tamoxifen, does not improve the disease-free or overall survival in patients with hormone receptor–positive, node-negative breast cancers with low-risk recurrence scores. The SOFT (Suppression of Ovarian Function Trial) study showed that the combination of ovarian suppression and an aromatase inhibitor is superior to tamoxifen in patients with higher-risk early breast cancer who require initial chemotherapy and remain premenopausal, but it is not superior to tamoxifen alone in women with low-risk breast cancers who do not need adjuvant chemotherapy.

**Bibliography**

Tevaarwerk AJ, Wisinski KB, O’Regan RM. Endocrine therapy in premenopausal hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. J Oncol Pract. 2016 Nov;12(11):1148-1156. PMID: 27858538

This content was last updated in August 2018.