
### Correct Answer: E) Observation 

**Educational Objective:** Manage prostate cancer in a patient with significant comorbidities.

#### **Key Point:** For men with early-stage prostate cancer who have limited life expectancy or significant medical comorbidities, observation is the most appropriate management.

The most appropriate management in this patient with early-stage prostate cancer and significant medical comorbidities is observation. His medical history is consistent with a predicted life expectancy of less than 5 years, his voiding symptoms are better after treatment with an α-blocker, and he has no other symptoms attributable to his cancer. Based on the typically indolent course of a low-grade localized prostate cancer, this patient will most likely die as a result of one of his other medical conditions rather than his prostate cancer. He is also at significant risk for complications associated with treatment. These issues should all be discussed with the patient so he can understand the competing issues involved and thereby permit him to be an active participant in decision making.
Observation is distinct from active surveillance. Observation consists of periodic follow-up to assess symptoms related to cancer progression that require palliation. Active surveillance, however, is a plan to defer definitive prostate cancer therapy until there is evidence of cancer progression based on evidence from systematic monitoring, including changes in prostate-specific antigen level and findings on digital rectal examination, biopsy results, or both. Because this patient's early-stage cancer is not appropriate for treatment, he is not a candidate for active surveillance.
Androgen deprivation therapy is not a recommended treatment for early-stage prostate cancer and will expose this patient to unnecessary side effects, including decreased libido and erectile dysfunction, osteoporosis, fatigue, gynecomastia, and hot flushes.
Bone scan is very unlikely to reveal bone metastases in asymptomatic men who have low-risk prostate cancer and, therefore, is not indicated.
Radiation is not appropriate for this patient because of his short predicted life expectancy, the indolent course of early-stage prostate cancer, and prostate radiation side effects, including bladder, bowel, and rectum injury along with erectile dysfunction.

**Bibliography**

Daskivich TJ, Fan KH, Koyama T, et al. Effect of age, tumor risk, and comorbidity on competing risks for survival in a U.S. population-based cohort of men with prostate cancer. Ann Intern Med. 2013 May 21;158(10):709-17. PMID: 23689764

This content was last updated in August 2018.