
### Correct Answer: D) No imaging studies 

**Educational Objective:** Avoid unnecessary imaging in a patient with stage IIB invasive breast cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Clinical staging based on history, physical examination, and serum liver chemistry tests and alkaline phosphatase measurements is the standard to confirm early-stage breast cancer; staging imaging studies are recommended only if signs or symptoms suggest metastatic disease.

No imaging studies are necessary for this patient with stage IIB invasive breast cancer. Patients with clinical stages I and II invasive breast cancers are at low risk for metastases at the time of diagnosis of their initial breast cancer. There is a lack of evidence suggesting that routine imaging studies improve the detection of metastatic disease or survival. Clinical staging based on history, physical examination, and serum liver chemistry tests and alkaline phosphatase measurements is the standard for confirming that patients have early-stage breast cancer. Staging imaging studies are recommended only if signs or symptoms suggest metastatic disease.
Bone scan is indicated for patients with localized bone pain or elevated serum alkaline phosphatase levels.
Chest CT is recommended for patients who have pulmonary symptoms or abnormal results on lung examination. Abdominal and possibly pelvic CT is indicated in patients with abnormal results on serum liver chemistry tests or with abnormal alkaline phosphatase levels, abdominal symptoms, or abnormal findings on physical examination of the abdomen or pelvis.
PET scan is not indicated in the staging of clinical stage I, II, or operable stage III breast cancer. In patients with large stage III cancers or inflammatory breast cancer, staging imaging studies are indicated and detect occult distant metastases in 10% to 21% of patients.
Despite a campaign to educate physicians about the lack of benefit of staging imaging studies in clinical stages I to II breast cancer, these tests continue to be done in a large percentage of patients with early breast cancer. A study from Ontario showed that after publication of the American Clinical Society's “Top Five” 2012 guidelines recommending against routine imaging studies in stages I and II breast cancer, 84% of patients with operable early-stage cancer had at least one imaging staging study. Radiologically evident metastases were found in only 2 of 200 patients, both of whom had clinical stage III breast cancer.

**Bibliography**

Schnipper LE, Smith TJ, Raghavan D, Blayney DW, Ganz PA, Mulvey TM, et al. American Society of Clinical Oncology identifies five key opportunities to improve care and reduce costs: the top five list for oncology. J Clin Oncol. 2012;30:1715-24. PMID: 22493340 doi:10.1200/JCO.2012.42.8375

This content was last updated in August 2018.