
### Correct Answer: D) No additional testing 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with deep venous thrombosis for occult malignancy.

#### **Key Point:** In approximately 10% of patients in whom an unprovoked venous thromboembolism is diagnosed, cancer will be found within 1 year, so an age-appropriate screening test should be performed.

This patient requires no additional testing. Cancer is eventually found in approximately 10% of patients with an unprovoked venous thromboembolism (VTE) within 1 year of VTE occurrence. Cancers of the ovary, pancreas, and liver are most often found. Testing for cancer in patients with idiopathic VTE leads to diagnosis of cancer at an earlier stage of the disease. However, a recent systematic review concluded that evidence is insufficient to draw definitive conclusions about the effectiveness of extensive testing for undiagnosed cancer in patients with a first episode of unprovoked VTE in reducing cancer and VTE-related morbidity and mortality. The results are imprecise and could be consistent with either harm or benefit. The authors concluded that further good-quality, large-scale, randomized controlled trials are required before firm conclusions can be made. Furthermore, extensive cancer screening can cause significant economic and psychological burden. A recent economic analysis concluded that addition of a comprehensive CT of the abdomen-pelvis for the screening of occult cancer in patients with unprovoked VTE is not cost effective; it is both more costly and not more effective in detecting occult cancer. Therefore, age-appropriate malignancy screening is advised along with symptom-based assessment. Based on this patient's age and sex, she is up to date on her cancer screening tests, and no further testing is required.
Because the patient has no pulmonary symptoms and has no history of smoking, CT of the chest or abdomen is not necessary at this time.
Although the patient has some persistent lower extremity edema, this can occur during treatment and may persist despite thrombosis resolution. Because the edema seems to be slowly improving and her course of treatment was initiated only 6 weeks ago, repeat Doppler ultrasonography would not be necessary at this time.

**Bibliography**

Carrier M, Lazo-Langner A, Shivakumar S, Tagalakis V, Zarychanski R, Solymoss S, et al; SOME Investigators. Screening for occult cancer in unprovoked venous thromboembolism. N Engl J Med. 2015;373:697-704. PMID: 26095467 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1506623

This content was last updated in August 2018.