
### Correct Answer: A) Biopsy of the right inguinal lymph node 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose transformed follicular lymphoma.

#### **Key Point:** Transformation of follicular lymphoma to an aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma may be suggested by a change in the clinical pattern of disease, such as the development of new systemic symptoms or rapid progression of a localized area of disease.

This patient has a 7-year history of follicular lymphoma with a recent onset of systemic symptoms and a rapidly enlarging right inguinal lymph node. Biopsy of the right inguinal node would be appropriate to evaluate for histologic progression of disease. Transformation to diffuse large B-cell lymphoma occurs in approximately 30% of patients with follicular lymphoma. Transformation may be suggested by a change in the clinical pattern of disease, such as the development of new systemic symptoms or rapid progression of a localized area of disease. In addition, a rise in serum lactate dehydrogenase level or markedly higher areas of standardized uptake values on PET scanning should raise suspicion of transformation. In such cases, a new lymph node biopsy is required to establish the occurrence of transformation. In this patient, rapid progression in just one area of disease, the onset of systemic symptoms, and a high serum lactate dehydrogenase level raise suspicion for transformation. If transformation to another, more aggressive lymphoma is demonstrated, a more aggressive course of treatment would be appropriate. Thus, a new biopsy in this setting is important to optimize management.
Idelalisib, a PI3K kinase inhibitor, is an oral agent that has shown significant activity for the treatment of relapsed follicular lymphoma. It has a reasonably high rate of partial response. It would be appropriate in this patient if transformation is excluded.
Radiation for palliation to a single symptomatic site can be considered for relapsed follicular lymphoma. However, this patient has systemic symptoms, and active systemic options are available; therefore, single-site palliative radiation would not be preferred at this time.
Treating with additional chemotherapy would be a reasonable option for this patient, given her excellent and prolonged initial response, if she has documented relapse of follicular lymphoma and requires retreatment. However, transformation to a large B-cell lymphoma should first be excluded because it may require a different treatment strategy.

**Bibliography**

Casulo C, Burack WR, Friedberg JW. Transformed follicular non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Blood. 2015;125:40-7. PMID: 25499449 doi:10.1182/blood-2014-04-516815

This content was last updated in August 2018.