
### Correct Answer: A) Anoscopy 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate isolated inguinal lymphadenopathy.

#### **Key Point:** Squamous cell carcinoma or poorly differentiated carcinoma presenting as isolated inguinal lymphadenopathy should prompt a careful examination of the vulva, vagina, and cervix in women, penis in men, and perineal skin and anus in both men and women.

The most appropriate diagnostic test to perform is an anoscopy. In the United States, approximately 35,000 patients receive a diagnosis of cancer of unknown primary (CUP) annually. The clinical evaluation should not involve an exhaustive search for a primary site because detection of an asymptomatic and occult primary tumor does not improve outcome. In a patient with CUP, it is important to look for treatable subgroups. Patients with CUP who have lymphadenopathy in a single lymph node or single lymph node region belong to a potentially more treatable subgroup of patients with CUP. Most patients with carcinoma, especially squamous cell carcinoma, involving inguinal lymph nodes have a primary site in the genital or anorectal area. In women this necessitates a careful examination of the vulva, vagina, and cervix. Men require a careful examination of the penis. Men and women should have a careful examination of the perineal skin, a digital rectal examination, and an anoscopy. This patient's examination is complete except for digital rectal examination and anoscopy. The anal region drains directly to the inguinal lymph nodes. Cancers of the anus that metastasize to the inguinal nodes are local-regionally advanced but not distantly metastatic and are potentially curable with a combination of chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
A bone scan would not be useful in identifying a treatable primary source and would not be indicated in a patient with an enlarged inguinal lymph node in the absence of specific bone pain.
Colonoscopy and upper endoscopy would be indicated in a patient presenting with gastrointestinal symptoms, unexplained anemia, or blood in the stool.
Although PET scans may sometimes suggest the location of a primary tumor, these findings are rarely definitive and do not improve long-term outcome.
Measurement of serum tumor marker levels, such as carcinoembryonic antigen, CA-19-9, CA-15-3, and CA-125, is rarely helpful and virtually never diagnostic.

**Bibliography**

Fizazi K, Greco FA, Pavlidis N, Daugaard G, Oien K, Pentheroudakis G; ESMO Guidelines Committee. Cancers of unknown primary site: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol. 2015;26 Suppl 5:v133-8. PMID: 26314775 doi:10.1093/annonc/mdv305

This content was last updated in August 2018.