
### Correct Answer: D) No further treatment 

**Educational Objective:** Treat stage II colon cancer without high-risk features.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with stage II colon cancer without high-risk features are unlikely to benefit from adjuvant treatment.

No further treatment is needed. This patient has stage II colorectal cancer (invades full thickness of the bowel [T3]), and lymph nodes are not involved [N0]). Patients with stage II colon cancer do not have a clear survival advantage with administration of adjuvant chemotherapy; consequently, surgery alone is the acceptable standard practice for most patients. Exceptions are patients with stage II colon cancer with characteristics associated with a high risk for recurrence (T4 primary tumor [invasion into adjacent structures or through the peritoneum], lymphovascular invasion, inadequate lymph node sampling [fewer than 12 lymph nodes examined], poorly differentiated histology, elevated postoperative carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), or clinical perforation or obstruction). In these patients, the prognosis is similar to that of patients with stage III disease, and adjuvant chemotherapy may be appropriate. Exposing this patient to the toxicity of chemotherapy is not warranted, as data do not support a survival benefit in such patients. For patients with stage II disease and a high risk for recurrence, treatment with 5-fluororuracil/leucovorin or capecitabine may be appropriate. Patients with stage II disease with a substantial number of high-risk features may at times be considered for oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy, such as parenteral 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX).
Patients with stage III disease (lymph node metastases) are routinely treated with oxaliplatin-containing regimens, such as FOLFOX, after resection. The combination of capecitabine plus intravenous oxaliplatin is also an acceptable regimen for adjuvant treatment of patients with stage III colon cancer.
Because local recurrence of colon cancer rarely develops and because it can be difficult to isolate the small bowel from the radiation field, radiation therapy, either alone or in combination with chemotherapy, does not have a role in the routine management of patients with stage III colon cancer. In addition, radiation to the small bowel may cause substantial toxicity.

**Bibliography**

Dotan E, Cohen SJ. Challenges in the management of stage II colon cancer. Semin Oncol. 2011;38:511-20. PMID: 21810510 doi:10.1053/j.seminoncol.2011.05.005

This content was last updated in August 2018.