
### Correct Answer: C) Surgical resection of the brain lesion 

**Educational Objective:** Treat melanoma with a solitary brain metastasis.

#### **Key Point:** Melanoma may be associated with solitary or oligometastatic disease, and metastasectomy will prolong survival and can be curative in these patients.

Surgical resection of the brain lesion in this patient with previous melanoma would be the most appropriate treatment. Assuming the lesion is surgically accessible, resection would provide a tissue diagnosis confirming the suspicion of metastatic melanoma, provide the best long-term local control, and offer the best potential for cure. Postoperative radiosurgery to the tumor bed may be considered to reduce the risk for recurrence. Melanoma may be associated with solitary or oligometastatic disease, and metastasectomy can be curative in a significant minority of these patients. Metastasectomy with or without systemic medical therapy is associated with increased overall survival compared to systemic medical therapy alone in patients with stage IV melanoma. Based on a cohort analysis of data from a randomized clinical trial, surgery was associated with a median overall survival of 15.8 months compared to 6.9 months with systemic therapy alone. The 4-year overall survival also favored the surgery group, 20.8% versus 7% in the group receiving systemic therapy alone.
Immunotherapy with nivolumab, pembrolizumab, or ipilimumab plus nivolumab is used in the treatment of metastatic melanoma but would not be recommended as first-line therapy if there is a resectable isolated metastasis, as in this patient.
Gamma knife or other forms of radiosurgery can provide high rates of local control while minimizing radiation exposure to the rest of the brain. With a large mass, however, surgical resection would provide a better probability of long-term control.
Treatment with BRAF/MEK inhibitor combination therapy, such as dabrafenib plus trametinib or vemurafenib plus cobimetinib, is effective for BRAF-mutated melanoma and can target disease in the brain, but these agents would not be preferred as initial therapy here because they are less effective than metastasectomy in increasing survival and offering a chance of cure.
Whole brain radiation therapy is reserved for patients with multiple metastases that are not amenable to focal therapies (surgery or radiosurgery). Although whole brain radiation therapy does decrease the risk of newer metastases, it is associated with an increased risk of late neurologic dysfunction.

**Bibliography**

Deutsch GB, Kirchoff DD, Faries MB. Metastasectomy for stage IV melanoma. Surg Oncol Clin N Am. 2015;24:279-98. PMID: 25769712 doi:10.1016/j.soc.2014.12.006

This content was last updated in August 2018.