
### Correct Answer: C) Pelvic radiation therapy and concurrent chemotherapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat locally advanced anal cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Anal cancer is often curable with combined chemotherapy and radiation, avoiding surgery.

Pelvic radiation therapy with concurrent chemotherapy is the most appropriate treatment. Anal carcinoma is a rare but increasing cause of cancer and accounts for approximately 2% of gastrointestinal cancers. Most anal cancers are squamous cell carcinomas and are associated with human papillomavirus (HPV) infection, particularly HPV 16 and HPV 18. Risk factors for anal cancer include HPV infection; sexually transmitted infections; multiple sex partners; men having sex with men; receptive anal intercourse; history of vaginal, cervical, or vulvar cancer; immunosuppression due to hematologic malignancy; solid organ transplantation; or HIV infection. Most patients present with a perianal lesion or mass associated with rectal bleeding or anal discomfort. This patient has locally invasive, node-positive squamous cell cancer of the anus. Curative-intent treatment with the combination of pelvic radiation therapy and concurrent systemic chemotherapy is indicated. This would be appropriate for patients with stages I, II, and III anal cancer. Mitomycin plus fluorouracil has been the standard chemotherapy regimen in patients with anal cancer for the past 50 years, although capecitabine, an oral fluorouracil prodrug, is now often used instead of parenteral fluorouracil.
Randomized studies of anal cancer treatment have shown radiation plus chemotherapy to be superior to radiation alone and 5-fluorouracil plus mitomycin to be superior to 5-fluorouracil alone.
Surgery for anal cancer is reserved as a salvage treatment for either local recurrence or incomplete response to chemotherapy plus radiation therapy, and is potentially curative. However, because definitive surgery must remove the anal sphincter, a placement of a permanent colostomy would be required.
HPV vaccine is approved for and has been shown to prevent anal HPV infection and anal intraepithelial neoplasia, precursors of anal cancer. However, HPV immunization is not an effective therapy for anal cancer once it has developed.

**Bibliography**

James RD, Glynne-Jones R, Meadows HM, Cunningham D, Myint AS, Saunders MP, et al. Mitomycin or cisplatin chemoradiation with or without maintenance chemotherapy for treatment of squamous-cell carcinoma of the anus (ACT II): a randomised, phase 3, open-label, 2 × 2 factorial trial. Lancet Oncol. 2013;14:516-24. PMID: 23578724 doi:10.1016/S1470-2045(13)70086-X

This content was last updated in August 2018.