
### Correct Answer: B) Continue anastrozole alone for an additional 5 years 

**Educational Objective:** Treat early-stage breast cancer with extended aromatase-inhibitor therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Extending aromatase-inhibitor therapy beyond 5 years to 10 years in postmenopausal women with hormone receptor–positive early breast cancer is associated with an increase in the 5-year disease-free survival rate but not overall survival.

The most appropriate management for this patient with early-stage breast cancer is to continue anastrozole for 5 years. In the North America Breast Cancer Group MA.17R trial, 1918 postmenopausal women with hormone receptor–positive early breast cancer who had completed 5 years of an aromatase inhibitor were randomly assigned to 5 years of letrozole or placebo. Most of the women had also received 5 years of tamoxifen before starting aromatase inhibitor therapy. The 5-year disease-free survival rate was 95% with letrozole versus 91% with placebo. Overall survival was the same in both groups. Patients on letrozole had a higher incidence of bone pain, bone fractures, and new-onset osteoporosis. This patient has tolerated anastrozole therapy well, has preserved bone density, and remains at higher risk (tumor size greater than 2 cm and pathologically involved lymph nodes). Extending aromatase inhibitor therapy to 10 years is reasonable for this patient.
Tamoxifen can be used sequentially with an aromatase inhibitor during the first 5 years of hormonal therapy. Studies have demonstrated equivalent results between sequential therapy (2 years of either tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor followed by 3 years of the other agent) compared with 5 years of an aromatase inhibitor. However, no data show benefit of tamoxifen, either as a single agent or in combination with an aromatase inhibitor, after completing 5 years of an aromatase inhibitor.

**Bibliography**

Goss PE, Ingle JN, Pritchard KI, Robert NJ, Muss H, Gralow J, et al. Extending aromatase-inhibitor adjuvant therapy to 10 years. N Engl J Med. 2016;375:209-19. PMID: 27264120 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1604700

This content was last updated in August 2018.