
### Correct Answer: B) Palliative care consultation 

**Educational Objective:** Manage metastatic lung cancer in a patient with poor performance status.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with non–small cell lung cancer and poor performance status do not benefit from systemic treatment of their cancer; in such patients, the most appropriate intervention is palliative care consultation.

The most appropriate management is palliative care consultation. This patient has advanced metastatic non–small cell lung cancer and very poor performance status, and he had several months of symptoms before hospitalization. Although systemic chemotherapy and other treatments can help many patients with advanced non–small cell lung cancer, data clearly indicate that not all patients benefit. In particular, patients with poor performance status have not been shown to benefit from systemic treatment of their cancer. In those patients, the most appropriate intervention is palliative care consultation. Evidence suggests that patients with metastatic non–small cell lung cancer who have palliative care consultation at the time of diagnosis have decreased depression and prolonged life by 2.7 months. In addition, goals of care should be discussed, as well as the low likelihood of efficacy associated with systemic treatment.
Ablation of liver metastases plays no role in the management of patients with non–small cell lung cancer and poor performance status, particularly in the setting of extensive extrahepatic cancer, such as in this patient.
Platinum-based chemotherapy is associated with significant potential toxicity in patients with poor performance status and is not recommended.
Given the presence of obvious extensive metastatic disease, radiation treatment would be recommended only for palliation. However, this patient is experiencing systemic effects from his cancer and does not have any specific lesion needing local palliation.

**Bibliography**

Bade BC, Silvestri GA. Palliative care in lung cancer: a review. Semin Respir Crit Care Med. 2016 Oct;37(5):750-759. PMID: 27732996

This content was last updated in August 2018.