
### Correct Answer: B) Immediate decompressive surgery 

**Educational Objective:** Treat neoplastic epidural spinal cord compression.

#### **Key Point:** Initial administration of dexamethasone followed by decompressive surgery for epidural spinal cord compression is recommended in patients who are acceptable surgical candidates and who have an expected survival of at least 3 months.

This patient should receive immediate decompressive surgery. Once spinal cord compression is diagnosed, treatment must be started urgently to prevent irreversible loss of neurologic function. Glucocorticoids should be given immediately and promptly followed by surgery, external beam radiation, or stereotactic body radiation. A study of 101 patients with epidural spinal cord compression showed that patients who received surgery followed by radiotherapy had better outcomes and lower morbidity and mortality than those who received radiotherapy alone. Candidates for surgery include those with a life expectancy of at least 3 months and the absence of comorbidities that would otherwise be a contraindication to surgery.
Radiation therapy would never be done electively in a patient with epidural cord compression because delays in treatment lead to further neurologic deterioration.
Palliative care and supportive care alone might be appropriate in a patient with a very poor prognosis who does not want any further active antineoplastic therapy. Patients in this situation must be aware of the high likelihood of neurologic deterioration, including loss of ambulation and loss of control of bowel and bladder function. In most patients with metastatic cancer, treatment to avoid these complications is recommended.
Urgent radiation would be appropriate in patients who are not surgical candidates because of comorbidities, who have an expected survival of less than 3 months, or who refuse surgery. This patient has a life expectancy of more than 3 months and has no medical contraindications to surgery.

**Bibliography**

Patchell RA, Tibbs PA, Regine WF, et al. Direct decompressive surgical resection in the treatment of spinal cord compression caused by metastatic cancer: a randomised trial. Lancet. 2005 Aug 20-26;366(9486):643-8. PMID: 16112300

This content was last updated in August 2018.