
### Correct Answer: B) Bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy by age 40 to 45 years 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a BRCA2 mutation carrier with prophylactic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.

#### **Key Point:** Prophylactic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy is recommended for both BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carriers, which markedly reduces the risk for ovarian cancer and, if done while premenopausal, decreases the risk for breast cancer by 50%.

The most appropriate recommendation for this patient is bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy by age 40 to 45 years. This patient has tested positive for a pathogenic BRCA2 mutation. Although she has no family history of ovarian cancer, she has a 12% lifetime risk for ovarian cancer. Prophylactic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) is strongly recommended for both BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carriers. Risk-reducing BSO markedly reduces the risk for ovarian cancer and, if done while premenopausal, decreases the risk for breast cancer by 50%. For BRCA1 mutation carriers, the risk for ovarian cancer increases substantially after age 35 years, and thus prophylactic BSO is recommended between the ages of 35 and 40 years and after completion of childbearing. BRCA1 carriers who delay BSO until age 40 years will have a 4% risk of being diagnosed with an ovarian cancer. For BRCA2 carriers, however, the risk of ovarian cancer before age 50 is only 1%. Therefore, it is reasonable to delay risk-reducing BSO until age 40 to 45 years in BRCA2 mutation carriers, particularly if they have already undergone prophylactic bilateral mastectomy. BSO can reduce the risk of ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancers by 80% and decrease all-cause mortality to age 70 years by 77%.
Because this patient desires further childbearing and is only 38 years old, she can safely delay BSO until age 40 to 45 years and until childbearing is complete.
Screening with annual or semiannual pelvic ultrasonography and CA-125 is not effective and has been removed as a screening recommendation from BRCA1 and BRCA2 management guidelines.
Oral contraceptive use decreases the risk for ovarian cancer by as much as 50% with prolonged use and can be used in BRCA1 and BRCA2 carriers but is not an adequate substitute for prophylactic BSO.

**Bibliography**

Finch AP, Lubinski J, Møller P, Singer CF, Karlan B, Senter L, et al. Impact of oophorectomy on cancer incidence and mortality in women with a BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation. J Clin Oncol. 2014;32:1547-53. PMID: 24567435 doi:10.1200/JCO.2013.53.2820

This content was last updated in August 2018.