
### Correct Answer: D) Flow cytometry on peripheral blood 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

#### **Key Point:** Flow cytometry on peripheral blood is the most appropriate test to make an initial diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

This patient's elevated lymphocyte count and the identification of smudge cells on the peripheral blood smear, together with the presence of lymphadenopathy on physical examination, point to a possible diagnosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). B-cell CLL is the most common form of adult leukemia, accounting for 10% of hematologic malignancies. Patients are usually asymptomatic at presentation, with CLL identified by a lymphocytosis on a routine complete blood count. Flow cytometry is the most appropriate test to make an initial diagnosis of CLL. It can be easily performed on peripheral blood and will show B-cell antigens (CD19, CD20, and CD23), coexpression of CD5 (usually a T-cell marker), and low levels of a monoclonal surface immunoglobulin. In most cases, CLL can be suspected based on the complete blood count and review of a peripheral blood smear. However, other conditions may present with lymphocytosis, which flow cytometry can help distinguish from typical CLL. Other conditions include reactive lymphocytosis, T-cell leukemias, and other B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders involving the blood, such as mantle cell and marginal zone lymphomas and hairy cell leukemia.
A bone marrow aspiration and biopsy can be used to diagnose CLL and will provide prognostic information based on the extent of marrow involvement. However, flow cytometry has replaced bone marrow examination, which is not routinely needed as part of diagnosing or staging the disease, although it may still be useful in evaluating atypical cases or the mechanisms of cytopenia in patients with CLL.
A CT scan may show lymphadenopathy or nonpalpable splenomegaly in patients with CLL; however, it does not provide additional information that is helpful in the management of disease in asymptomatic patients.
Prognosis for patients with CLL is determined by gene mutation status (immune globulin variable heavy-chain mutation) and fluorescence in situ hybridization or array-based karyotyping. In patients with CLL, a deletion of chromosome 17p is concerning because it is associated with a short median survival (less than 3 years). These cytogenetic and molecular genetic studies may have implications in choice of therapies. However, these studies would not typically be ordered until a definitive diagnosis of CLL is obtained.

**Bibliography**

Strati P, Shanafelt TD. Monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis and early-stage chronic lymphocytic leukemia: diagnosis, natural history, and risk stratification. Blood. 2015;126:454-62. PMID: 26065657 doi:10.1182/blood-2015-02-585059

This content was last updated in August 2018.