
### Correct Answer: A) Acute promyelocytic leukemia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose acute promyelocytic leukemia.

#### **Key Point:** Acute promyelocytic leukemia may present with a reduced total leukocyte count and features of disseminated intravascular coagulation.

This patient has pancytopenia, immature leukocytes with morphologic features consistent with promyelocytes, and laboratory features of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), all of which are consistent with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APML). Acute leukemia can present with a leukocyte count within or below the normal range. It can include bleeding, as in this patient, from thrombocytopenia that may be accompanied by coagulopathy. APML is a subset of acute myeloid leukemia that often presents with bleeding and coagulopathy; this coagulopathy contributes to early mortality and morbidity. Features of DIC should prompt transfusion with fresh frozen plasma and cryoprecipitate (for hypofibrinogenemia) in addition to platelet transfusion for thrombocytopenia. A bone marrow aspirate and biopsy should be performed urgently to confirm the diagnosis because the coagulopathy of APML responds to therapy with all-trans retinoic acid, which targets the underlying defect in cellular differentiation.
Pancytopenia is expected in patients with aplastic anemia, but those patients would not have the atypical cells seen in the peripheral blood of this patient and would not present with DIC.
Although immature leukocytes, including myelocytes and promyelocytes, may be seen in the peripheral blood in patients with chronic granulocytic leukemia, these patients have leukocytosis, not leukopenia, and most of the increase comes from mature polymorphonuclear leukocytes.
Although severe thrombocytopenia and bleeding are typical of the acute presentation of immune thrombocytopenic purpura, this patient's pancytopenia, coagulopathy, and abnormal leukocytes are inconsistent with this diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Döhner H, Weisdorf DJ, Bloomfield CD. Acute myeloid leukemia. N Engl J Med. 2015;373:1136-52. PMID: 26376137 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1406184

This content was last updated in August 2018.