
### Correct Answer: A) Left radical nephrectomy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

#### **Key Point:** Debulking nephrectomy improves survival in patients diagnosed with metastatic kidney cancer, particularly in those with limited metastatic disease.

The most appropriate management is left radical nephrectomy. Renal cell carcinomas arise in the renal cortex and are the most common type of tumors affecting the kidney. Patients with renal cell carcinoma are often asymptomatic until they have advanced disease, but possible symptoms include hematuria, an abdominal mass, abdominal pain, and unexplained weight loss. However, the classic triad of flank pain, hematuria, and a palpable abdominal mass occurs in only approximately 9% of patients. This patient most likely has metastatic kidney cancer based on identification of a large kidney mass associated with a suspicious pulmonary nodule and anemia. However, there is no histologic diagnosis of cancer at this point. Debulking nephrectomy has been shown to improve survival in patients diagnosed with metastatic kidney cancer, particularly in those with limited metastatic disease. Patients with lung-only metastasis and good performance status benefit most. In this patient, therefore, nephrectomy would serve two purposes. It would confirm the diagnosis and also serve as treatment for her metastatic kidney cancer. Following nephrectomy it would be appropriate to consider metastasectomy for removal of the isolated pulmonary lesion.
Nivolumab, a monoclonal antibody directed against programmed death receptor 1, is currently FDA approved for treatment of advanced clear cell carcinoma of the kidney. However, nivolumab is not recommended as first-line treatment and should not be started before establishing a histologic diagnosis of clear cell carcinoma. Clear cell carcinoma has not been confirmed in this patient, so the use of nivolumab would be premature.
PET/CT scan plays no role in the evaluation of a patient suspected of having kidney cancer. The presence or absence of fluorodeoxyglucose avidity would not influence management.
External beam radiation does not play a role in the treatment of metastatic kidney cancer except for palliative treatment of metastatic sites, such as painful osseous metastatic lesions. In this patient with a large kidney mass and one site of metastatic disease, surgery is indicated. Radiation has not been shown to improve outcomes in this setting and is not recommended.

**Bibliography**

Flanigan RC, Salmon SE, Blumenstein BA, et al. Nephrectomy followed by interferon alfa-2b compared with interferon alfa-2b alone for metastatic renal-cell cancer. N Engl J Med. 2001 Dec 6;345(23):1655-9. PMID: 11759643

This content was last updated in August 2018.