
### Correct Answer: D) Observation 

**Educational Objective:** Manage advanced-stage follicular lymphoma in an asymptomatic patient.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with nonbulky follicular lymphoma who are not symptomatic may survive many years without the need for therapy.

For this 75-year-old man with advanced-stage follicular lymphoma who is asymptomatic and does not have bulky disease, observation is an appropriate management strategy. There is no proof that earlier therapy for stage III to IV (nodes on both sides of the diaphragm [III]; noncontiguous extranodal involvement [IV]) follicular lymphoma provides benefit over deferring therapy until needed, provided the patient is comfortable with a strategy of surveillance. Patients with nonbulky follicular lymphoma who are not symptomatic may survive many years without the need for therapy.
Spontaneous tumor lysis syndrome occurs commonly in patients with leukemia and Burkitt lymphoma and after treatment of bulky large B-cell lymphoma or advanced chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Tumor lysis syndrome results in hyperkalemia, hyperphosphatemia, hyperuricemia, hypocalcemia, and disseminated intravascular coagulation. Hyperuricemia can lead to urate nephropathy and acute kidney injury. Prevention of tumor lysis syndrome is accomplished with large-volume intravenous hydration with normal saline plus administration of allopurinol to limit hyperuricemia. Because this patient will not likely be receiving chemotherapy, there is no need for allopurinol to prevent tumor lysis syndrome. Even if he were to be treated, tumor lysis is not common in low-grade lymphomas in the absence of bulky disease or preexisting renal disease or hyperuricemia.
Although follicular lymphomas are sensitive to radiation, and radiation therapy may be used for palliation of symptomatic bulky sites of disease or for cure in patients with localized (stage I to II) follicular lymphoma, this patient clearly has disseminated disease with diffuse lymphadenopathy, and systemic therapy would be appropriate if needed.
Follicular lymphoma associated with symptomatic systemic disease requires multiagent therapy that traditionally includes rituximab plus cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (R-CHOP); rituximab plus cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and prednisone (R-CVP); or rituximab and bendamustine. This patient is asymptomatic and does not yet require systematic therapy.

**Bibliography**

Kahl BS, Yang DT. Follicular lymphoma: evolving therapeutic strategies. Blood. 2016;127:2055-63. PMID: 26989204 doi:10.1182/blood-2015-11-624288

This content was last updated in August 2018.