
### Correct Answer: D) Now 

**Educational Objective:** Screen for breast cancer in a patient with previous chest wall radiation.

#### **Key Point:** The International Late Effects of Childhood Cancer Guideline Harmonization Group recommends that for women who received chest wall radiation before the age of 30 years, breast screening should begin at age 25 years or 8 years after completion of radiation therapy, whichever is last.

Annual mammography or breast MRI starting now is the most appropriate screening strategy in this patient. She has a history of radiation to the chest wall to treat Hodgkin lymphoma at age 19 years and is at high risk for breast cancer. Among this group, the cumulative breast cancer incidence by age 40 to 45 years ranges from 13% to 20% and is similar to that in BRCA gene mutation carriers. The risk varies with the dose of radiation used, and the strength of the screening recommendation is highest for women who received the highest dose of radiation (20 Gy or higher). For women with low- to moderate-dose chest radiation (less than 20 Gy), the decision to screen should be an individual one, taking into account additional risk factors and patients' values. The increased risk for breast cancer begins within 8 years after treatment. The International Late Effects of Childhood Cancer Guideline Harmonization Group recommends that for women who received chest wall radiation before the age of 30 years, screening should begin at age 25 years or 8 years after completion of radiation therapy, whichever is last. The Guideline Harmonization Group notes that the ideal screening modality is unknown because of a lack of sufficient evidence, but breast MRI, mammography, or a combination of mammography and breast MRI are all reasonable choices. National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines recommend annual mammography and MRI starting after age 25 for patients receiving radiation between ages 10 and 30, beginning 8 to 10 years after irradiation.
This patient completed radiation at the age of 19 years. According to the Guideline Harmonization Group, her breast cancer screening should start at age 27 years (8 years after radiation or age 25 years, whichever is last), not 30 years.
Patients at average risk for breast cancer should start screening every 2 years by age 50 years, with the option to start mammographic screening between ages 40 and 50 years being an individualized decision. This patient, however, is at high, not average, risk.

**Bibliography**

Mulder RL, Kremer LC, Hudson MM, et al; International Late Effects of Childhood Cancer Guideline Harmonization Group. Recommendations for breast cancer surveillance for female survivors of childhood, adolescent, and young adult cancer given chest radiation: a report from the International Late Effects of Childhood Cancer Guideline Harmonization Group. Lancet Oncol. 2013 Dec;14(13):e621-9. doi:10.1016/S1470-2045 (13)70303-6. PMID: 24275135

This content was last updated in August 2018.