
### Correct Answer: B) Fertility specialist consultation before chemotherapy 

**Educational Objective:** Manage fertility in a patient with early-stage breast cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Fertility specialist consultation is recommended for all patients before chemotherapy during their reproductive years.

Fertility specialist consultation before chemotherapy is appropriate for this patient with early-stage breast cancer. Current guidelines recommend addressing the possibility of chemotherapy-related infertility with all patients treated with chemotherapy during their reproductive years and referring them as early as possible in the treatment process to reproductive specialists. The risk of infertility after chemotherapy for breast cancer is related to patient age, treatment type and doses, and pretreatment fertility. Even if women resume menses after chemotherapy, they may have infertility and are at risk for premature menopause. In women, embryo cryopreservation is a proven fertility preservation method. Current methods allow egg harvesting to occur at any point in the menstrual cycle. Patients who carry deleterious BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations have the option of preimplantation genetic selection and implanting only embryos that do not have the deleterious mutation. Studies to date show no increase in the risk for disease recurrence with fertility preservation methods.
Fertility consultation after chemotherapy is less likely to be beneficial given the exposure of ovarian follicles to the chemotherapy agent. The ovarian response to ovarian stimulation and the quality of the oocytes decrease after even one round of chemotherapy.
There is insufficient evidence regarding the use of a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist such as goserelin during chemotherapy to preserve ovarian function, and it should not replace established methods of fertility preservation.
There is no reason to recommend against future childbearing in patients with early-stage breast cancer. Pregnancy after breast cancer diagnosis is associated with no difference in disease-free survival and a slightly reduced risk of death.

**Bibliography**

Loren AW, Mangu PB, Beck LN, Brennan L, Magdalinski AJ, Partridge AH, et al; American Society of Clinical Oncology. Fertility preservation for patients with cancer: American Society of Clinical Oncology clinical practice guideline update. J Clin Oncol. 2013;31:2500-10. PMID: 23715580 doi:10.1200/JCO.2013.49.2678

This content was last updated in August 2018.