
### Correct Answer: B) Neoadjuvant chemotherapy plus radiation therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat localized gastroesophageal cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Neoadjuvant therapy is given before a planned curative-intent surgery to patients with fully resectable gastroesophageal disease to eradicate micrometastatic and increase the chance for cure.

The most reasonable treatment strategy is neoadjuvant chemotherapy plus radiation therapy. Although only 30% to 40% of patients with gastroesophageal cancer have potentially resectable disease at presentation, patients with local and locoregional disease are typically treated surgically. Unfortunately, recurrence rates are high, and cure rates with surgical resection alone remain low. Studies have shown that administration of neoadjuvant chemotherapy improves outcome to a modest but statistically significant degree. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy plus radiation therapy is given before a planned curative-intent surgery to patients who are believed to have fully resectable disease to eradicate any micrometastatic disease that might be present outside of the surgical field and thus increase the chance for cure. There is often confusion between neoadjuvant chemotherapy and conversion chemotherapy. The key distinction between neoadjuvant chemotherapy and conversion chemotherapy is that in conversion chemotherapy, the patient's tumor is not believed to be currently resectable but could possibly become resectable if adequate tumor regression can be accomplished with chemotherapy. Thus, both neoadjuvant and conversion chemotherapy are given with a plan for surgery to follow; however, neoadjuvant therapy is administered to patients with micrometastatic disease thought to be resectable, whereas conversion therapy is given to shrink visible tumors in patients with unresectable disease in whom disease might become resectable with adequate tumor regression.
Adjuvant therapy is given after curative-intent surgery to eradicate any residual micrometastatic disease and increase the chance for cure. Because of the low cure rates for locoregional therapy for esophageal cancer, chemotherapy has been added to many treatment regimens, and many patients are currently treated with combination chemoradiation following surgery for resectable disease. However, the optimal treatment regimen and the overall effectiveness of different treatment approaches have not yet been established. However, there is no evidential support for adjuvant radiation therapy (surgery followed by radiation therapy) for patients with localized gastroesophageal cancer.
Palliative therapy is given to patients with incurable cancer to prolong survival or control symptoms. Palliative care should be considered for patients with poor performance status due to chronic medical comorbidities, for those who have not been able to tolerate initial treatment attempts, or for those who have exhausted standard treatment options.

**Bibliography**

van Hagen P, Hulshof MC, van Lanschot JJ, Steyerberg EW, van Berge Henegouwen MI, Wijnhoven BP, et al; CROSS Group. Preoperative chemoradiotherapy for esophageal or junctional cancer. N Engl J Med. 2012;366:2074-84. PMID: 22646630 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1112088

This content was last updated in August 2018.