
### Correct Answer: B) Intravesicular bacillus Calmette-Guérin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat superficial bladder cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Initial treatment for high-grade or recurrent low-grade bladder cancer is transurethral resection of the bladder tumor followed by intravesical chemotherapy and periodic cystoscopy.

The most appropriate treatment is intravesicular bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) for six treatments followed by periodic cystoscopy. Bladder cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer of the urinary tract. In the United States, almost all bladder cancer is transitional cell carcinoma. Risk factors include advanced age, white ethnicity, various occupational exposures, and cigarette smoking. Smoking is the most important risk factor and encompasses current and former smokers and persons exposed to secondhand smoke. Persons at occupational risk include metal workers, painters, miners, textile workers, and leather workers. The most common presenting symptom of bladder cancer is gross hematuria. Most patients diagnosed with bladder cancer will be found to have non-muscle invasive disease, which can be purely exophytic or can involve limited bladder wall invasion. For patients with non−muscle invasive cancer, transurethral resection of the bladder tumor (TURBT) is the standard initial management. For those with high-grade or recurrent low-grade cancer, standard care is to follow TURBT with six rounds of intravesical chemotherapy, most commonly BCG or mitomycin given directly into the bladder. This procedure is done both for treatment of the identified lesion and to help prevent additional bladder tumors from developing. The risk of either recurrent cancer or a new bladder cancer arising elsewhere is significant. Therefore, after BCG or mitomycin treatment, it is essential to perform cystoscopy 3 months after treatment and subsequently at 3- to 6-month intervals to look for new cancers. Patients with noninvasive bladder cancer have an excellent prognosis, and cancer-related deaths rarely occur. Patients who develop recurrent disease with favorable tumor characteristics may be retreated with intravesicular therapy but, if higher-risk tumors are found, may require cystectomy.
Cisplatin-based chemotherapy has no role in the treatment of non−muscle invasive cancer. It is used most often as a neoadjuvant treatment before surgery in patients with muscle-invasive cancer. The role of adjuvant chemotherapy in muscle-invasive cancer is much less clear.
Partial cystectomy is not needed for the treatment of early-stage, non–muscle invasive bladder cancer. However, it has a role in selected patients with muscle-invasive cancer.

**Bibliography**

Hall MC, Chang SS, Dalbagni G, et al. Guideline for the management of nonmuscle invasive bladder cancer (stages Ta, T1, and Tis): 2007 update. J Urol. 2007 Dec;178(6):2314-30. PMID: 17993339

This content was last updated in August 2018.