
### Correct Answer: D) Decreased efficacy and increased toxicity 

**Educational Objective:** Properly apply the results of clinical oncology trials to individual patients.

#### **Key Point:** Results of clinical trials in patients with cancer, usually encompassing medically fit patients with good performance status, cannot be extrapolated to patients with poor health and performance status.

The patient would most likely achieve efficacy results inferior to those in the published trial. Patients who participate in clinical trials typically have a good to excellent performance status, performing most of their normal activities of living. Patients who are sedentary, with limited exercise tolerance and limited caloric intake, are substantially less likely to benefit from treatment than patients who are more medically fit. Patients with a poor performance status, such as this one, would also be more likely to experience greater toxicity with aggressive treatment than would a more medically fit patient. Consequently, the results of clinical trials, which typically comprise medically fit patients with a good performance status, cannot be directly extrapolated to patients with poor health and poor performance status, such as this one.

**Bibliography**

Tinetti ME. The gap between clinical trials and the real world: extrapolating treatment effects from younger to older adults. JAMA Intern Med. 2014;174:397-8. PMID: 24424303 doi:10.1001/jamainternmed.2013.13283

This content was last updated in August 2018.