
### Correct Answer: B) Letrozole plus palbociclib 

**Educational Objective:** Treat advanced breast cancer using palbociclib with antiestrogen therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with widely metastatic hormone receptor–positive, HER2-negative breast cancer can benefit from combination antiestrogen therapy with palbociclib.

Letrozole plus palbociclib is the most appropriate treatment for this patient with advanced breast cancer that recurs after completing previous adjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy. Palbociclib is an oral cyclin-dependent kinase 4 and 6 (CDK4 and CDK6) inhibitor that is synergistic with endocrine therapies in vitro. In vitro studies suggest that breast cancer that has become resistant to hormonal therapy remains dependent on cyclin D1-CDK4 for proliferation. Two studies have shown benefit to the combination of antiestrogen therapy with palbociclib for hormone receptor–positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer, with an increased response rate and an approximate doubling of progression-free survival compared to hormonal therapy alone. Therapy with palbociclib was associated with increased adverse effects, including fatigue, nausea, and neutropenia.
Based on these studies, palbociclib has been approved for use with either letrozole as first-line therapy or fulvestrant for women with hormone receptor–positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer. As first-line therapy, an aromatase inhibitor with palbociclib is typically preferred.
The aromatase inhibitor exemestane alone is unlikely to be effective in a patient who has relapsed a few years after receiving treatment with another aromatase inhibitor and is an inferior choice to combination hormonal therapy and palbociclib.
Raloxifene can be used as chemoprophylaxis to lower the risk of breast cancer in patients with increased risk due to atypical breast lesions or strong family history but is not an active agent for treatment of breast cancer.
Tamoxifen is not typically recommended as first-line therapy for advanced hormone receptor–positive, HER2-negative breast cancer. As a second-line agent after previous aromatase inhibitor treatment, it has an overall response rate of only 10%.

**Bibliography**

Turner NC, Ro J, André F, et al; PALOMA3 Study Group. Palbociclib in hormone-receptor-positive advanced breast cancer. N Engl J Med. 2015 Jul 16;373(3):209-19. PMID: 26030518

This content was last updated in August 2018.