
### Correct Answer: A) 5-Fluorouracil, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX) 

**Educational Objective:** Treat stage III colon cancer.

#### **Key Point:** The FOLFOX regimen of 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin or oxaliplatin with oral capecitabine (CAPOX) is the most appropriate adjuvant therapy for stage III colon cancer.

The most appropriate treatment is the FOLFOX regimen of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), leucovorin, and oxaliplatin. This patient has stage IIIC colon cancer. Stage III is defined by metastases to the local-regional lymph nodes, and stage IIIC is defined by metastases to four or more nodes. Stage III colon cancer is potentially curable, although the risk of treatment failure increases with the number of nodes, and four or more positive nodes is a worrisome prognostic indicator. Currently all patients with stage III cancer are recommended to receive adjuvant chemotherapy after definitive surgery, as large randomized trials have shown that this modestly improves the likelihood of cure. For over a decade, the combination of oxaliplatin plus a fluoropyrimidine, such as 5-FU or its oral prodrug, capecitabine, have been the accepted standard management for stage III colon cancer. The drug 5-FU is usually given with the reduced folate leucovorin, which is inactive alone but causes 5-FU to bind more tightly to its target enzyme.
Oxaliplatin with oral capecitabine (CAPOX) is also an acceptable regimen for adjuvant treatment of stage III colon cancer. Use of oral capecitabine requires a highly reliable, motivated patient who is able to adhere to a complex oral medication schedule.
Local recurrence in colon cancer, unlike rectal cancer, is rare, so radiation therapy is not a routine part of the management of colon cancer. Further, it can be difficult to isolate the small bowel from the radiation field, which results in unnecessary toxicity. Therefore, radiation therapy does not have a role in the routine management of patients with stage III colon cancer, either alone or combined with chemotherapy.

**Bibliography**

André T, de Gramont A, Vernerey D, Chibaudel B, Bonnetain F, Tijeras-Raballand A, et al. Adjuvant fluorouracil, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin in stage II to III colon cancer: updated 10-year survival and outcomes according to BRAF mutation and mismatch repair status of the MOSAIC study. J Clin Oncol. 2015;33:4176-87. PMID: 26527776 doi:10.1200/JCO.2015.63.4238

This content was last updated in August 2018.