
### Correct Answer: C) Direct antiglobulin (Coombs) test 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate anemia in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

#### **Key Point:** Autoimmune hemolytic anemia is common in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia; a direct antiglobulin (Coombs) test can confirm the diagnosis and guide treatment.

Obtaining a direct antiglobulin (Coombs) test would be the appropriate initial diagnostic step to help guide management in this patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) with anemia. Concomitant autoimmune disease, including immune thrombocytopenia and hemolytic anemia, is common among patients with CLL. Anemia in patients with CLL can have many mechanisms, including myelophthisis (replacement of normal marrow elements by fibrosis or tumor) from the CLL itself, hypersplenism, chemotherapy, pure red cell aplasia, and autoimmune hemolytic anemia. The patient's reticulocytosis is strongly suggestive of a hemolytic anemia. Identifying the mechanism of anemia can help guide therapy. If the patient has a positive direct antiglobulin test result suggestive of a secondary immunohemolytic anemia, glucocorticoids would be the appropriate first treatment for this patient.
Parvovirus has a tropism for erythrocyte precursors and is a known cause of aplastic crisis in patients with underlying hematologic disorders, iron deficiency, and immunosuppression. Patients with CLL and others with immunosuppression can have prolonged infections resulting in persistent anemia. However, reticulocytopenia (as opposed to the reticulocytosis as seen in this patient) would be characteristic for this complication.
A bone marrow aspiration and biopsy can help determine the mechanism of anemia in patients with CLL to assess for the extent of marrow replacement, for evaluation of hypoplasia from chemotherapy, to look for secondary myelodysplasia or pure red cell aplasia, or suggest evidence of erythroid hyperplasia, which could be seen in hypersplenism or an immunohemolytic disease. However, if the result of a direct antiglobulin test is positive and reticulocytosis is present, bone marrow aspiration and biopsy would not be needed.
Ibrutinib, an oral Bruton kinase inhibitor, is effective in CLL and mantle cell lymphoma. Although ibrutinib can cause some marrow suppression, this is not typical and would not be associated with reticulocytosis.
Hypersplenism (with or without immunohemolysis) may have a role in this patient's anemia, and eventually splenectomy may be an appropriate treatment. However, establishing the mechanism of the anemia and initiating systemic treatment would be preferable and a less invasive option.

**Bibliography**

Molica S, Polliack A. Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia in the current era of targeted therapy. Leuk Res. 2016;50:31-36. PMID: 27657651 doi:10.1016/j.leukres.2016.09.002

This content was last updated in August 2018.