
### Correct Answer: B) Programmed cell death ligand 1 expression 

**Educational Objective:** Screen for PD-L1 expression in metastatic non-small cell lung cancer

#### **Key Point:** It has now become standard practice to test all patients newly diagnosed with metastatic non−small cell lung cancer for programmed cell death ligand 1 expression.

Up until recently, the accepted front-line treatment for patients with metastatic non−small cell lung cancer was platinum-based chemotherapy in all patients except those found to have a driver mutation, in whom small molecule inhibitors, such as erlotinib, are indicated. However, pembrolizumab has recently been approved by the FDA for the initial treatment of metastatic non−small cell lung cancer positive for expression of programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1). Pembrolizumab is a monoclonal antibody directed against PD-L1, and it blocks binding of this ligand to the programmed death receptor 1 receptor, preventing the cancer from silencing cellular immunity. This agent was found to improve overall survival compared to platinum-based chemotherapy in a phase III trial that enrolled 305 patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer who had at least 50% tumor cell positivity for PD-L1. In this study, overall survival was 10.3 months with pembrolizumab compared to 6 months with platinum-based chemotherapy. Based on this data, it has now become standard practice to test all patients newly diagnosed with metastatic non−small cell lung cancer for PD-L1 expression.
Liver biopsy can help confirm the presence of metastatic disease but is not indicated in patients with imaging findings consistent with metastatic disease whose diagnosis has been confirmed by biopsy of the primary lesion.
PET/CT scan has no role in the evaluation or management of patients with known metastatic disease and would not be indicated for this patient.
Pulmonary function tests also play no role in the management of patients with metastatic disease. They are typically indicated in patients who are being considered for surgery for early-stage disease.

**Bibliography**

Reck M, Rodríguez-Abreu D, Robinson AG, Hui R, Csoszi T, Fülöp A, et al; KEYNOTE-024 Investigators. Pembrolizumab versus chemotherapy for PD-L1-positive non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med. 2016;375:1823-1833. PMID: 27718847

This content was last updated in August 2018.