
### Correct Answer: B) A germ cell chemotherapy regimen 

**Educational Objective:** Treat midline poorly differentiated carcinoma of unknown primary site.

#### **Key Point:** Young men with poorly differentiated carcinoma that is characterized by centrally located bulky retroperitoneal or mediastinal lymphadenopathy may have an unrecognized germ cell tumor and are best treated with a platinum-based chemotherapy regimen.

The most appropriate treatment is a germ cell chemotherapy regimen of cisplatin and etoposide. Cancer of unknown primary (CUP) is a diagnosis of exclusion established in patients with a solid metastatic tumor after a detailed medical history and physical examination have been done and imaging studies or other diagnostic studies have not identified a primary tumor site. Diagnostic efforts should focus on identifying whether a patient is among the approximately 20% of patients with CUP who fall into identifiable subgroups with a more favorable prognosis and who can benefit from a specific treatment strategy. A biopsy obtained from the site that can be sampled in the safest, least invasive manner is done, and specimens are often evaluated by immunohistochemical stains consistent with the tumor's pattern of presentation to attempt to establish a diagnosis of a more treatable subtype of CUP. The patient is a young man with a poorly differentiated CUP site that is predominantly midline in presentation. In the absence of an identified primary tumor, these patients should be treated presumptively for metastatic germ cell tumor. The absence of abnormal findings on testicular examination or ultrasonography or the absence of germ-cell specific markers, such as α-fetoprotein and β-human chorionic gonadotropin, does not exclude this diagnosis or this course of action. Even if these evaluation results are negative, an unrecognized germ cell tumor may still exist, and these patients should be treated for this possibility with a platinum-based chemotherapy regimen.
A chemotherapy regimen focused on digestive tract malignancies, such as fluorouracil and irinotecan, would be appropriate palliation for a pattern of CUP consistent with a gastrointestinal primary tumor, such as disease predominantly below the diaphragm with liver or peritoneal involvement. However, this patient has bulky lymphadenopathy below and above the diaphragm, making a digestive malignancy unlikely.
The extent of retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy and mediastinal lymphadenopathy makes initial treatment with either radiation therapy or surgery inappropriate.

**Bibliography**

Fizazi K, Greco FA, Pavlidis N, Daugaard G, Oien K, Pentheroudakis G; ESMO Guidelines Committee. Cancers of unknown primary site: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol. 2015;26 Suppl 5:v133-8. PMID: 26314775 doi:10.1093/annonc/mdv305

This content was last updated in August 2018.