
### Correct Answer: C) Inclusionary predictive marker 

**Educational Objective:** Define an inclusionary predictive tumor marker.

#### **Key Point:** Inclusionary predictive tumor markers identify which therapies are more likely to be effective.

The finding of a BRAF V600E mutation is best described in this situation as an inclusionary predictive marker. Predictive markers help identify specific aspects of the tumor that can guide clinicians in determining which therapies are or are not appropriate for particular patients. For example, specific BRAF-targeted treatment, such as vemurafenib and dabrafenib, is indicated only in the subset of patients in whom the BRAF V600E mutation is found, and patients with this mutation are predicted to respond favorably to these agents. Conversely, the absence of the BRAF V600E mutation in patients with metastatic melanoma excludes consideration of such therapy and strongly predicts an absence of benefit from such a treatment.
An exclusionary predictive marker excludes patients from treatment that otherwise might have been used. Examples of exclusionary predictive markers are the KRAS or NRAS mutations in patients with colorectal cancer, the presence of which would exclude the activity of an anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)−targeted therapy. Patients with these gene mutations have disease that is not only found to be highly resistant to these agents, but they can also experience accelerated tumor growth with the use of such treatments.
Prognostic markers would quantitate a patient's risk of recurrence but would not indicate whether the outcome was more or less likely to be influenced by a certain treatment or intervention. Whereas predictive markers provide actionable information that is useful in guiding therapy, prognostic markers do not provide actionable information and therefore typically do not guide therapy and provide little to no value in clinical management.

**Bibliography**

Nair M, Sandhu SS, Sharma AK. Prognostic and predictive biomarkers in cancer. Curr Cancer Drug Targets. 2014;14(5):477-504. PMID: 24807144

This content was last updated in August 2018.