
### Correct Answer: A) Measurement of β-human chorionic gonadotropin and α-fetoprotein levels 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate suspected testicular cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Before histologic confirmation of testicular cancer, α-fetoprotein and β-human chorionic gonadotropin levels should be measured to most accurately determine stage and prognosis.

The most appropriate management is to measure β-human chorionic gonadotropin and α-fetoprotein levels. In the setting of unilateral testicular swelling or a palpable testicular mass in a young man, cancer is a diagnosis of exclusion. This patient has unilateral testicular swelling. Physical examination and ultrasonography both point to the presence of a testicular mass. Although extrinsic processes can cause testicular swelling, ultrasonography is very accurate in differentiation of intrinsic from extrinsic testicular pathology. In a patient found to have a testicular mass, the diagnosis of cancer must be confirmed histologically. Germ cell tumors are the most common type of testicular cancer. These tumors can be pure seminomas or nonseminomas. However, before histologic confirmation, α-fetoprotein and β-human chorionic gonadotropin levels should be measured to most accurately determine stage and prognosis. The serum α-fetoprotein level is never elevated in patients with pure seminomas, and β-human chorionic gonadotropin is elevated in only approximately 20% of patients with pure seminomas. Nonseminomatous germ cell tumors can contain elements of seminoma, but those elements are mixed with tumors with nonseminomatous histologies, which include yolk sac tumor, choriocarcinoma, and embryonal carcinoma. This distinction is important for determining the correct treatment. However, these measurements do not determine diagnosis and are not a substitute for histologic evaluation. Because levels will fall after orchiectomy, measurement before surgery is recommended. Failure of the levels to fall suggests inadequate therapy, and elevation of the levels after treatment suggests recurrent disease.
Needle biopsy is contraindicated in the evaluation of testicular masses owing to the risk of biopsy tract seeding.
Chest radiography and CT of the abdomen and pelvis are done after a diagnosis is established. CT of the chest is indicated if the chest radiograph is abnormal or lung metastases are strongly suspected. PET-CT has little role in the evaluation of men with confirmed testicular cancer in part because of a high rate of false-positive results. It would not be indicated before establishing a diagnosis.
Radical inguinal orchiectomy is essential for establishing a diagnosis of testicular cancer in the most expeditious and safest way possible. However, it should be performed after tumor markers are measured.

**Bibliography**

Mir MC, Pavan N, Gonzalgo ML. Current clinical applications of testicular cancer biomarkers. Urol Clin North Am. 2016 Feb;43(1):119-25. doi:10.1016/j.ucl.2015.08.011. PMID: 26614034

This content was last updated in August 2018.