
### Correct Answer: A) Dexamethasone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat symptomatic brain metastases.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with symptomatic brain metastases should be initially treated with glucocorticoids.

This patient has evidence of brain metastases in the setting of metastatic hormone receptor-negative, HER2-positive breast cancer and should receive dexamethasone. She has headache and ataxia but no signs or symptoms of severe intracranial edema or impending herniation. Glucocorticoids are indicated as initial treatment in all patients with symptomatic brain metastases; they improve neurologic symptoms in 75% of patients, usually reducing intracranial pressure and improving neurologic symptoms within hours. Dexamethasone given either intravenously or orally is typically used because of its minimal mineralocorticoid effect and long half-life. Doses should be tapered to the lowest effective dose after stereotactic radiation and then tapered over several weeks. For patients on glucocorticoids for longer than 6 weeks, prophylaxis against pneumocystis pneumonia is recommended. Patients should be monitored for symptoms of gastritis or peptic ulcer, but there is no evidence that prophylaxis with H2-blockers or proton-pump inhibitors is effective at preventing these complications. Patients should also be monitored for steroid myopathy.
Only about 25% of patients with brain metastases have seizures, and prophylactic antiepileptic therapy is not recommended in patients who have not had seizures. When antiepileptic drug therapy is used, newer agents, such as levetiracetam, are preferred to older agents, given the more favorable safety profiles and less potential for drug-drug interactions.
Mannitol and mechanical hyperventilation would be used in patients with severe edema at risk for herniation but are not indicated in this patient. Similarly, neurosurgical decompression would be recommended in patients with severe edema or impending herniation unable to wait for a response to dexamethasone or unresponsive to other treatments.
Whole brain radiation is less desirable in patients with good prognostic tumors and a limited number of brain metastases; stereotactic radiation would be recommended instead, but only after initial glucocorticoid treatment to improve peritumoral edema.

**Bibliography**

Lin X, DeAngelis LM. Treatment of brain metastases. J Clin Oncol. 2015;33:3475-84. PMID: 26282648 doi:10.1200/JCO.2015.60.9503

This content was last updated in August 2018.