
### Correct Answer: C) History, physical, and gynecologic examination every 3 months 

**Educational Objective:** Manage posttreatment surveillance for a patient with cervical cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Posttreatment surveillance of patients with cervical cancer is limited to a thorough history and examination every 3 to 6 months for the first 2 years, then every 6 to 12 months for years 2 through 5; frequency of visits can be tailored to the patient's risk.

The most appropriate posttreatment surveillance for this patient with cervical cancer is a history, physical examination, and gynecologic examination every 3 months to monitor for local recurrence. Guidelines for posttreatment surveillance of patients with cervical cancer recommend a thorough history and examination every 3 to 6 months for the first 2 years, then every 6 to 12 months for years 2 through 5. Higher-risk patients, such as those treated with chemotherapy or radiation, should be evaluated every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for years 2 through 5; those with lower-risk disease treated with surgery alone should be evaluated every 6 months for 2 years, then annually through year 5. The main goals of surveillance are to detect central pelvic (not involving the pelvic sidewall) recurrences that might be amenable to curative therapy and to address treatment-related symptoms. Treatment-related symptoms include bladder and bowel dysfunction; dyspareunia; difficulty achieving sexual arousal and orgasm; hot flushes; lymphedema of the lower extremities; fatigue; and mood disturbances related to fear of recurrence, altered body image, and loss of fertility. Patients also should be educated at these visits about symptoms that might indicate recurrence, including vaginal bleeding or new abdominal or pelvic pain. Most recurrences are symptomatic and are detected within 2 years of primary treatment, with nearly all detected by 5 years. Additional laboratory or imaging studies should be directed by signs or symptoms suggesting possible recurrence rather than done as routine studies in asymptomatic patients. Although annual cervical or vaginal cytology, or both, is recommended, it is unlikely that an asymptomatic recurrence will be found by cytology alone. In addition, pelvic radiation may alter tissue histology and make cytology interpretation difficult.
There is no evidence that routine imaging studies with either ultrasonography or CT results in better patient outcomes than clinical monitoring, or that the response to palliative therapy is improved by such surveillance techniques. Routine laboratory studies are also not recommended.

**Bibliography**

Elit L, Fyles AW, Devries MC, Oliver TK, Fung-Kee-Fung M; Gyneocology Cancer Disease Site Group. Follow-up for women after treatment of cervical cancer: a systematic review. Gynecol Oncol. 2009 Sep;114(3):528-35. PMID: 19560188

This content was last updated in August 2018.