
### Correct Answer: B) Combined chemotherapy and radiation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat stage III lung cancer with combined chemotherapy and radiation.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with non–small cell lung cancer who have extensive primary tumors or bulky, multistation lymphadenopathy in the mediastinum are not candidates for surgery and instead should be treated with combined chemotherapy and radiation.

The most appropriate treatment is combined chemotherapy and radiation. Treatment for stage III non–small cell lung cancer, which is defined in most cases by the presence of mediastinal lymphadenopathy, can vary significantly based on the extent of the primary tumor and the extent of associated lymphadenopathy. Patients with extensive primary tumors, such as this patient whose tumor invades the mediastinum, are not candidates for surgery. Patients with bulky, multistation (widespread mediastinal or hilar lymph node involvement) lymphadenopathy in the mediastinum do not fare well after surgery. These patients should be treated with combined chemotherapy and radiation, which has been shown to improve outcomes compared with either chemotherapy alone or radiation alone.
In highly selected patients with stage III disease, surgery may be considered an appropriate therapeutic option. For patients with T3N1 disease, surgery can be done as initial therapy, although the procedure should include mediastinal lymph node dissection. In patients with negative mediastinal lymph nodes, adjuvant chemotherapy should be given. In patients with positive mediastinal lymph nodes, sequential chemotherapy and radiation is recommended. However, this patient has bulky mediastinal disease and is clearly not a candidate for surgery.
Pembrolizumab is a monoclonal antibody directed against programmed death receptor 1 (PD-1) that is indicated for treatment of recurrent metastatic non–small cell lung cancer. It has no role in the treatment of locally advanced non–small cell lung cancer and would not be indicated for this patient.
Radiation alone is inferior to combined chemotherapy and radiation and is not typically recommended. It would be recommended only for patients who were not candidates for combined chemotherapy and radiation based on comorbid conditions. However, this patient does not have any comorbid conditions that would preclude chemotherapy.
As noted previously, this patient has bulky mediastinal disease and is clearly not a candidate for surgery; therefore, surgical resection is not appropriate.

**Bibliography**

Tam K, Daly M, Kelly K. Treatment of locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2017 Feb;31(1):45-57. doi: 10.1016/j.hoc.2016.08.009. PMID: 27912833

This content was last updated in August 2018.