
### Correct Answer: B) Assess tumor tissue for HER2 amplification 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate metastatic gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma for HER2 amplification.

#### **Key Point:** Upper gastrointestinal tumors should be assessed for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) amplification to guide chemotherapy.

This patient's tumor tissue should be assessed for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) amplification. He has metastatic adenocarcinoma of the distal esophagus. Approximately 25% of gastroesophageal cancers demonstrate HER2 amplification; such tumors achieve a superior response to chemotherapy when the anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody trastuzumab is added to standard chemotherapy. For this reason, determination of HER2 amplification status is necessary when initiating chemotherapy for patients with a gastroesophageal tumor.
BRAF mutation status is of paramount importance in patients with melanoma, 40% of whom will have BRAF-mutated tumors that are highly likely to respond to tyrosine kinase inhibitors targeting BRAF. However, such mutations are exceedingly rare in upper gastrointestinal malignancies, and BRAF-targeting agents have thus far failed to show activity in BRAF-mutated gastrointestinal malignancies.
RAS mutation status is relevant to the use of anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) monoclonal antibodies in colorectal cancer. These agents have not been shown to be active in upper gastrointestinal malignancies and are not part of the treatment paradigm.
Neither a PET/CT scan nor a barium swallow will add useful information for this patient because the available CT imaging is sufficient for establishing a treatment plan. Any further information regarding extent of disease that might be found on a PET/CT would not be expected to change management. A barium swallow is unlikely to provide clinically useful information about the extent of his tumor or additional information about his swallowing capacity.

**Bibliography**

Jomrich G, Schoppmann SF. Targeting HER 2 and angiogenesis in gastric cancer. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2016;16:111-22. PMID: 26567753 doi:10.1586/14737140.2016.1121110

This content was last updated in August 2018.