
### Correct Answer: B) Leuprolide plus docetaxel 

**Educational Objective:** Treat castrate-sensitive metastatic prostate cancer with androgen deprivation therapy and docetaxel.

#### **Key Point:** In men with clinical metastatic prostate cancer that is castrate sensitive, docetaxel along with continuation of androgen deprivation therapy has been shown to improve survival and is accepted as standard care.

The most appropriate management is leuprolide plus docetaxel. Standard therapy for metastatic prostate cancer or evidence of disseminated disease based on an elevated serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is androgen deprivation therapy (ADT). ADT consists of inhibiting androgen synthesis by using a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist (such as leuprolide) or blocking the androgen receptor with an antiandrogen agent (such as flutamide or bicalutamide). Bilateral orchiectomy is a reasonable alternative to GnRH agonist therapy, particularly in the very elderly. ADT is typically combined with docetaxel chemotherapy in patients with extensive metastatic disease. This patient has castrate-sensitive metastatic prostate cancer. He presented with clinical metastatic disease and had a significant response to treatment with leuprolide, based on both a reduction in his PSA level and improvement in pain related to his metastatic lesion to the lumbar spine. Two randomized trials have confirmed a survival benefit associated with combined ADT and docetaxel chemotherapy for men with castrate-sensitive metastatic prostate cancer. Based on the observed improvement in survival, use of docetaxel in this setting is now accepted standard care and should be recommended unless a contraindication to chemotherapy exists. Myelosuppression is the most common side effect of docetaxel. Hepatic dysfunction or compromised bone marrow function are contraindications to its use. This patient's medical history does not indicate any contraindication to treatment with docetaxel.
Continuation of leuprolide alone would not be recommended in a patient who is a candidate for docetaxel chemotherapy based on the demonstrated improvement in survival in men treated with six cycles of docetaxel.
Although radiation to the lumbar spine would be indicated for pain control or for treatment of neurologic compromise due to nerve compression by metastatic disease, this patient has no evidence of neurologic compromise, and his pain improved with leuprolide treatment. Therefore, radiation is not indicated at this time.

**Bibliography**

James ND, Sydes MR, Clarke NW, et al; STAMPEDE Investigators. Addition of docetaxel, zoledronic acid, or both to first-line long-term hormone therapy in prostate cancer (STAMPEDE): survival results from an adaptive, multiarm, multistage, platform randomized controlled trial. Lancet. 2016 Mar 19;387(10024):1163-77. PMID: 26719232

This content was last updated in August 2018.