
### Correct Answer: D) Intravenous immune globulin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat symptomatic secondary hypogammaglobulinemia.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with multiple myeloma, hypogammaglobulinemia, and recurrent infections, intravenous immune globulin should be given to provide passive immunity against causative organisms.

This patient should be given intravenous immune globulin (IVIG). She has acquired hypogammaglobulinemia with recurrent sinus infections. Patients with multiple myeloma are at risk for acquired hypogammaglobulinemia from a decrease in normal plasma cells and the effects of treatment. Patients with acquired hypogammaglobulinemia without recurrent infections should not be offered IVIG replacement. Prophylactic antibiotics are also an option in some patients who have recurrent infections with susceptible organisms. In addition to the cost of infusion, IVIG has numerous adverse effects, including anaphylaxis, serum sickness, kidney failure, hypertension, and headache. In patients with recurrent infections, IVIG provides protection from infection by providing passive immunity; the product is collected from healthy donors who likely have antibodies against the causative organisms. In this patient with recurrent sinus infections, a trial of IVIG should be given. Although efficacy is uncertain, vaccination against influenza, pneumococcus, and Haemophilus influenzae is also recommended.
Prophylactic acyclovir is often recommended for patients receiving bortezomib therapy (increased risk for herpes zoster) after autologous stem cell transplantation and for patients with recurrent herpetic infections. It is not provided routinely to patients with multiple myeloma to prevent infection and is unlikely to be of benefit in this patient with recurrent bacterial sinusitis.
Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor is used in conjunction with certain myelotoxic chemotherapies as infection prophylaxis and in some patients with severe neutropenia, such as severe congenital neutropenia. It is not appropriate in this patient with mild neutropenia.
Patients with myeloma are at increased risk for bacterial infection owing to impaired lymphocyte and plasma cell function and hypogammaglobulinemia. The most commonly encountered organisms are Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, and Escherichia colipresenting as sinusitis, pneumonia, and urinary tract infections. Routine prophylaxis against fungal infection with fluconazole is not beneficial.

**Bibliography**

Friman V, Winqvist O, Blimark C, Langerbeins P, Chapel H, Dhalla F. Secondary immunodeficiency in lymphoproliferative malignancies. Hematol Oncol. 2016;34:121-32. PMID: 27402426 doi:10.1002/hon.2323

This content was last updated in August 2018.