
### Correct Answer: A) Direct antiglobulin (Coombs) test 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose a delayed hemolytic transfusion reaction.

#### **Key Point:** A positive direct antiglobulin (Coombs) test will confirm a delayed hemolytic transfusion reaction, a diagnosis that should be considered in a patient with low-grade fever and features of hemolytic anemia after recent transfusion.

A direct antiglobulin (Coombs) test (DAT) should be ordered for this patient who is likely experiencing a delayed hemolytic transfusion reaction (DHTR), which is an anamnestic antibody response to previous erythrocyte antigen (non-ABO) sensitization that typically occurs 7 to 14 days after the index transfusion. The primary alloimmunization event is usually a remote transfusion or pregnancy. At the time of the index transfusion, the antibody level is usually lower than the detectable threshold determined by routine blood bank screening. A DHTR is associated with jaundice, low-grade fever, and an otherwise unexplained decrease in the hemoglobin concentration; it is sometimes accompanied by hemoglobinuria, which is confirmed by urinalysis and this patient's presenting symptom of tea-colored urine. Laboratory testing in these patients shows indirect hyperbilirubinemia. The DAT will be positive, whereas the indirect antiglobulin test, which is invariably negative before transfusion, may remain negative or show an unexpected alloantibody. For patients known to have received a recent transfusion, obtaining a transfusion history from the outside blood bank may be helpful.
Flow cytometry will assist in the diagnosis of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH), an acquired clonal stem cell disorder that should be considered in patients presenting with hemolytic anemia, pancytopenia, or unprovoked atypical thrombosis. Hemolytic anemia occurring within days of a transfusion in a previously sensitized individual is more likely to represent DHTR than PNH.
Patients thought to have obscure gastrointestinal bleeding should be considered for repeat upper endoscopy, colonoscopy, or both. Up to 50% of lesions can be identified using this strategy. However, this patient's decrease in hemoglobin level, hemoglobinuria, and elevated total bilirubin level suggest hemolysis, not gastrointestinal bleeding.
Patients who are well compensated for their degree of anemia do not require immediate transfusion.

**Bibliography**

Delaney M, Wendel S, Bercovitz RS, Cid J, Cohn C, Dunbar NM, et al; Biomedical Excellence for Safer Transfusion (BEST) Collaborative. Transfusion reactions: prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. Lancet. 2016;388:2825-2836. PMID: 27083327 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(15)01313-6

This content was last updated in August 2018.