
### Correct Answer: C) Cryoprecipitate 

**Educational Objective:** Treat disseminated intravascular coagulation with cryoprecipitate transfusion.

#### **Key Point:** Cryoprecipitate is the treatment of choice for patients with bleeding and hypofibrinogenemia secondary to disseminated intravascular coagulation.

The most appropriate management for this patient is to transfuse 10 units of pooled cryoprecipitate. Cryoprecipitate is appropriate as adjunctive therapy if bleeding and hypofibrinogenemia persist in disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). This patient's clinical presentation of thrombocytopenia, abnormally prolonged clotting times, and low fibrinogen level are consistent with DIC, which is associated with placental abruption and other obstetric emergencies and severe inflammatory immune response syndrome with multiorgan dysfunction. The hemostatic defect in DIC is multifactorial, ultimately involving the consumption of coagulation factors and platelets. Bleeding in DIC typically responds to treatment of the underlying cause and should resolve in this patient with appropriate obstetric management of the placental abruption. However, transfusion support may still be required to address the coagulopathy. Cryoprecipitate is manufactured from fresh frozen plasma and contains fibrinogen in a more concentrated form. The appropriate amount requires pooling 8 to 10 units of cryoprecipitate, each unit being derived from 1 pint of whole blood.
Twenty-five percent albumin is fractionated from large pools of donated plasma and does not contain any coagulation proteins. It is hyperoncotic and used to treat hypotension, commonly in the postoperative setting and after large-volume paracentesis. This patient's blood pressure has stabilized, so she needs definitive management of the coagulopathy. Twenty-five percent albumin would not be appropriate therapy.
Cryo-poor plasma is derived from fresh frozen plasma in which the cryoprecipitate has been separated. Its use is limited to refractory thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, although any advantage over fresh frozen plasma in this disorder has not been proven. It is not appropriate for treatment of most coagulopathies.
Although the patient does have thrombocytopenia, a platelet count exceeding 50,000/µL (50 × 109/L) is generally acceptable to manage postsurgical bleeding (with a count of approximately 100,000/µL [100 × 109/L] preferred for intracranial bleeding); therefore, a platelet transfusion is not the most immediate need.

**Bibliography**

Levy JH, Goodnough LT. How I use fibrinogen replacement therapy in acquired bleeding. Blood. 2015;125:1387-93. PMID: 25519751 doi:10.1182/blood-2014-08-552000

This content was last updated in August 2018.