
### Correct Answer: D) Parvovirus B19 infection 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose parvovirus B19 infection in a patient with sickle cell disease.

#### **Key Point:** Parvovirus B19 infection preferentially affects erythrocyte precursors in the bone marrow, causing transient pure red cell aplasia in patients with sickle cell anemia.

This patient has parvovirus B19 infection presenting with pure red cell aplasia (PRCA). Patients with sickle cell anemia have chronic hemolysis and depend on increased erythrocyte production to maintain the hemoglobin level. Parvovirus B19 infection preferentially affects erythrocyte precursors in the bone marrow, causing transient PRCA. This patient's very low reticulocyte count is consistent with the decreased erythrocyte production seen in PRCA. Infection with parvovirus B19 in children can present as erythema infectiosum with fever and rash. Although adults can have flu-like illness and arthralgia, most are asymptomatic. However, in patients with hemolytic anemia, it can present with transient aplastic crisis. Supportive transfusions are usually required to treat symptoms from severe anemia.
Aplastic anemia (AA) is a condition characterized by pancytopenia with associated neutropenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia and a severely hypocellular bone marrow. Isolated cytopenias are uncommon despite the designation of anemia. AA is usually acquired and is caused by toxic, viral, or autoimmune mechanisms. The lack of other cytopenias makes AA an unlikely diagnosis.
In some patients with sickle cell disease, a rare condition known as hyperhemolysis is thought to be responsible for an acute hemolytic anemia and reticulocytosis. Episodes have sometimes been associated with delayed transfusion reactions and acute vasoocclusive events. Hyperhemolysis syndrome would be associated with an elevated reticulocyte count, not a reduced count.
Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) ranges in severity from an asymptomatic disease characterized by mild normocytic or macrocytic anemia to a transfusion-dependent anemia. The incidence of MDS increases with age. Abnormal erythrocyte forms with basophilic stippling or Howell-Jolly bodies and dysplastic neutrophils with decreased nuclear segmentation and granulation may be present. MDS is unlikely to cause a symptomatic anemia developing over a few days in a young patient with sickle cell disease.

**Bibliography**

Yawn BP, Buchanan GR, Afenyi-Annan AN, Ballas SK, Hassell KL, James AH, et al. Management of sickle cell disease: summary of the 2014 evidence-based report by expert panel members. JAMA. 2014;312:1033-48. PMID: 25203083 doi:10.1001/jama.2014.10517

This content was last updated in August 2018.