
### Correct Answer: B) Add hydroxyurea 

**Educational Objective:** Treat essential thrombocythemia.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with essential thrombocythemia who are older than 60 years or who have had previous thromboembolic complications should be treated with aspirin and hydroxyurea.

The patient has essential thrombocythemia (ET) and should be treated with hydroxyurea. The first step in evaluating thrombocytosis is to rule out a secondary elevation. Chronic infection, collagen vascular disease, malignancy, ongoing bleeding, and iron deficiency can all cause a reactive thrombocytosis. JAK2 mutation testing is positive in only about 60% of patients with ET, but other clonal mutations involving calreticulin and MPL genes have been identified in some patients with JAK2-negative ET. Approximately 10% to 15% of patients with ET have negative results for all three mutations (termed triple-negative patients). A bone marrow biopsy specimen showing hypercellularity with increased numbers of enlarged megakaryocytes is required to make the diagnosis in the few patients with ET who do not have any of the three mutations listed previously.
The most significant complications that may occur during follow-up of ET are thrombosis (10%-15% 15-year cumulative risk; arterial is more common than venous), hemorrhage (8.6% 15-year cumulative risk), progression to myelofibrosis (10% 15-year cumulative risk), and transformation to acute leukemia (3% 15-year cumulative risk). The patient's age (older than 60 years) and previous thromboembolic event place her at particularly high risk for subsequent thromboembolic complications. Platelet-lowering therapy is indicated for any patient at high risk. Hydroxyurea is well tolerated in older adult patients and is considered first-line therapy for nonpregnant patients. For that reason, she should be treated with aspirin and hydroxyurea.
Patients with high-risk ET, such as this patient who has a history of stroke, require antiplatelet therapy and platelet-lowering therapy with agents such as hydroxyurea. Changing antiplatelet therapy from aspirin to clopidogrel would not address this patient's need for platelet-lowering therapy nor would adding a second antiplatelet medication, such as clopidogrel, to the aspirin.
Plateletpheresis may be indicated in the emergent management of patients with ET who have markedly elevated platelet counts, usually greater than 1,000,000/µL (1000 × 109/L), and acute hemorrhage. Plateletpheresis would not be indicated in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Nangalia J, Massie CE, Baxter EJ, Nice FL, Gundem G, Wedge DC, et al. Somatic CALR mutations in myeloproliferative neoplasms with nonmutated JAK2. N Engl J Med. 2013;369:2391-405. PMID: 24325359 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1312542

This content was last updated in August 2018.