
### Correct Answer: D) Platelet Function Analyzer-100 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate for acquired platelet dysfunction.

#### **Key Point:** Patients who present with symptoms of mucocutaneous bleeding and a normal platelet count should be evaluated for acquired platelet dysfunction using the Platelet Function Analyzer-100.

Patients who present with symptoms of mucocutaneous bleeding and a normal platelet count should be evaluated for acquired platelet dysfunction using the Platelet Function Analyzer-100 (PFA-100). Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as citalopram decrease serotonin uptake from platelets and have a reported association with gastrointestinal bleeding, especially in older adults. Herbal supplements like ginkgo biloba have been reported to increase platelet dysfunction in patients taking antiplatelet agents and may interact with this patient's SSRI. The PFA-100 provides a rapid screening test of platelet function and has replaced the bleeding time test. Anticoagulated whole blood is passed through small membranes coated with collagen and epinephrine or collagen and adenosine diphosphate. Platelets adhere to the membrane and close a small aperture. A prolonged closure time implies abnormal platelet activity.
Patients with hypofibrinogenemia may have significant bleeding, but it is uncommon as an isolated finding and is much more likely to be seen in patients with liver disease or disseminated intravascular coagulation who also have abnormalities of the prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), and platelet count. Furthermore, the normal thrombin time excludes hypofibrinogenemia.
Rarely, older patients without a personal or family history of bleeding may present with acute new-onset bleeding caused by acquired hemophilia. Such bleeding can be mucocutaneous or intramuscular. The PT is normal, but the aPTT is significantly prolonged, and a 1:1 mixing study of the patient's plasma with normal plasma is unsuccessful at completely correcting the aPTT. This patient's PT and aPTT are normal, and mixing studies will not provide further information.
Although a peripheral blood smear is the first step in evaluating a patient with abnormal platelet counts, all of this patient's cell counts are normal, and a peripheral blood smear review will not help determine the cause of his bleeding.
Serum protein electrophoresis will detect paraprotein, which might cause bleeding by interfering with coagulation factors and prolonging the prothrombin or thrombin times. Because all of this patient's coagulation parameters are normal, looking for a paraprotein is unnecessary at this time.

**Bibliography**

Konkle BA. Acquired disorders of platelet function. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2011;2011:391-6. PMID: 22160063 doi:10.1182/asheducation-2011.1.391

This content was last updated in August 2018.