
### Correct Answer: C) Discontinue dapsone 

**Educational Objective:** Manage glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency.

#### **Key Point:** Testing for glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activity is reliable in men who are not experiencing an acute hemolytic episode but is less useful during acute episodes because reticulocytes produce higher levels of enzyme, resulting in a falsely normal test result.

The most appropriate management for this patient is to discontinue dapsone. He most likely has glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency as a result of his dapsone therapy. He developed an acute hemolytic anemia, indicated by an acute reduction in the hemoglobin and haptoglobin levels and reticulocytosis, and the bite cells seen on the peripheral blood smear also suggest G6PD deficiency. A drug reaction should always be suspected in such settings. Dapsone is one of the most commonly encountered drugs leading to G6PD-mediated hemolysis, so this drug should be promptly discontinued. G6PD deficiency is X linked, so it is much more common in men, especially in those of African descent. G6PD levels should not be checked during an acute hemolytic event because they are normal in newly produced erythrocytes but decrease up to 75% as the cells age. As a result, during an acute hemolytic event, the older, more deficient erythrocytes are preferentially destroyed, leaving the newer less deficient cells to circulate. This leads to falsely normal G6PD levels, so G6PD measurement should be delayed for several weeks after a hemolytic event.
Warm antibody autoimmune hemolytic anemia would be appropriately treated with glucocorticoids, such as prednisone, but this disease is unlikely with the negative direct antiglobulin test result and the absence of spherocytes in the peripheral blood.
Rituximab would be indicated to treat cold agglutinin autoimmune hemolytic anemia. However, no agglutinated cells are seen on the peripheral blood smear, and the direct antiglobulin test result would be positive, indicating complement on the erythrocyte surface in this disease.
This patient's platelet count is normal, and no fragmented erythrocytes or schistocytes are seen on the peripheral blood smear, so thrombotic thrombocytopenia purpura, which would be confirmed by a reduction in ADAMTS13 activity, is not likely.

**Bibliography**

Luzzatto L, Seneca E. G6PD deficiency: a classic example of pharmacogenetics with on-going clinical implications. Br J Haematol. 2014;164:469-80. PMID: 24372186 doi:10.1111/bjh.12665

This content was last updated in August 2018.