
### Correct Answer: A) Erythropoietin deficiency 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose the anemia of kidney disease.

#### **Key Point:** Normocytic anemia with a low reticulocyte count and normal erythrocyte morphology in a patient with underlying chronic kidney disease is usually caused by erythropoietin deficiency and will respond to therapy with an erythropoiesis-stimulating agent; however, normalization of the blood count is not advised.

This patient most likely has anemia resulting from erythropoietin deficiency. Normocytic anemia with unremarkable erythrocyte morphology and a low reticulocyte count in a patient with underlying chronic kidney disease is usually caused by erythropoietin deficiency. Measuring erythropoietin levels may be useful in making the diagnosis of the anemia of kidney disease, and low erythropoietin measurements can distinguish these patients from those with other causes of anemia. The modest absolute increase in serum creatinine level underestimates the severity of kidney injury in this frail, older adult patient with reduced muscle mass. Administration of erythropoiesis-stimulating agents will correct the anemia of kidney disease.
The anemia of inflammation is caused by inhibition of iron transport and suppression of erythropoietin by hepcidin and other inflammatory cytokines. Although it is classically seen in patients with chronic infection, cancer, or autoimmune-inflammatory disease, the anemia of inflammation may also occur in patients with diabetes and heart failure and, on occasion, in patients without any overt underlying disease. This patient lacks characteristic laboratory features, including a low total iron-binding capacity and serum iron level and normal or elevated ferritin level.
Iron deficiency is not uncommon in patients with chronic kidney disease because they are at risk for gastrointestinal bleeding from angiodysplasia or ulcer disease, but these patients typically have microcytic erythrocytes, low serum iron and ferritin levels, and elevated total iron-binding capacity.
Patients with myelodysplastic syndrome often have pancytopenia; although early stages and forms of this syndrome with a better prognosis may have isolated anemia, the presence of macrocytosis, which is absent in this patient, is characteristic.

**Bibliography**

Chapter 1: Diagnosis and evaluation of anemia in CKD. Kidney Int Suppl (2011). 2012;2:288-291. PMID: 25018948

This content was last updated in August 2018.