
### Correct Answer: A) Abdominal fat pad biopsy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose amyloidosis.

#### **Key Point:** Diagnosis of amyloidosis requires biopsy of the affected organ and demonstration of characteristic apple-green birefringence with Congo red staining; fat pad biopsy is sometimes performed because it is less invasive.

The most appropriate test to perform next is an abdominal fat pad biopsy. This patient has cardiomyopathy, nephrotic syndrome, autonomic dysfunction, and macroglossia, which are likely caused by amyloidosis. Amyloid deposition can occur in one or more organs and cause symptoms related to the sites of deposition. Sites commonly involved are the kidneys, the gastrointestinal tract, and the cardiac, neurologic, coagulation, and musculoskeletal systems. In this patient, nephrotic-range proteinuria, cardiomyopathy, orthostatic hypotension, and macroglossia all suggest amyloidosis. The finding of an IgG λ monoclonal gammopathy can also be associated with amyloidosis. Diagnosis requires biopsy of the affected organ and demonstration of characteristic apple-green birefringence with Congo red staining. Fat pad biopsy is sometimes performed when multiorgan involvement is suspected because it is less invasive; however, if findings are unrevealing, biopsy of the organ(s) involved, such as the kidney, may be required. Because different proteins can be involved in amyloid deposition, protein typing with tests such as mass spectrometry is done after amyloidosis is diagnosed. Proper identification of the amyloid type is critical and guides appropriate therapy.
Cardiac catheterization to evaluate for coronary artery disease is not the best test to perform in this patient with multisystem involvement and no symptoms or signs of acute ischemia. However, cardiac biopsy is sometimes required in patients with suspected isolated cardiac involvement with amyloidosis.
Tilt table testing may be helpful in patients with reflex syncope triggered by standing, patients in high-risk settings with a single unexplained episode of syncope, or patients with recurrent episodes in the absence of organic heart disease. This patient does not have syncope but rather a multiplicity of findings suggesting a systemic disease not likely to be elucidated with tilt table testing.

**Bibliography**

Gillmore JD, Wechalekar A, Bird J, Cavenagh J, Hawkins S, Kazmi M, et al; BCSH Committee. Guidelines on the diagnosis and investigation of AL amyloidosis. Br J Haematol. 2015;168:207-18. PMID: 25312307 doi:10.1111/bjh.13156

This content was last updated in August 2018.