
### Correct Answer: A) Bone marrow biopsy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Waldenström macroglobulinemia.

#### **Key Point:** Waldenström macroglobulinemia is an indolent B-cell lymphoma with clonal lymphoplasmacytic infiltration of the bone marrow that secretes IgM in the blood, and a bone marrow biopsy will confirm the diagnosis.

A bone marrow biopsy is the most appropriate diagnostic test to perform in this patient. He has hepatosplenomegaly, anemia, and night sweats along with an IgM spike on laboratory testing, indicating he most likely has Waldenström macroglobulinemia (WM). WM is an indolent B-cell lymphoma with clonal lymphoplasmacytic infiltration of the bone marrow that secretes IgM in the blood. Patients with WM can present with classic “B symptoms” of drenching night sweats, fever, weight loss, and anemia. Tissue infiltration of the lymphoma can cause hepatosplenomegaly and lymphadenopathy. Bone marrow biopsy to document lymphoplasmacytic infiltrate will confirm the diagnosis.
For patients suspected of having a lymphoma, excisional biopsy of a lymph node is preferred to needle biopsy because it provides better architectural detail for distinguishing malignant from benign causes and for classifying the nature of the malignancy. In patients with WM, bone marrow biopsy is predictably diagnostic and a much less invasive option than is para-aortic lymph node excision.
Increased IgM protein in the blood can cause hyperviscosity, with symptoms such as altered vision, headache, hearing loss, tinnitus, dizziness, nystagmus, altered mental status, and nasal and oropharyngeal bleeding. Funduscopic evaluation may show hyperviscosity-related findings, including dilated retinal veins, papilledema, and flame hemorrhages. This patient has no signs or symptoms of hyperviscosity and has an M protein level of less than 400 mg/dL (4 g/L), so serum viscosity testing is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Castillo JJ, Garcia-Sanz R, Hatjiharissi E, Kyle RA, Leleu X, McMaster M, et al. Recommendations for the diagnosis and initial evaluation of patients with Waldenström Macroglobulinaemia: a task force from the 8th International Workshop on Waldenström Macroglobulinaemia. Br J Haematol. 2016;175:77-86. PMID: 27378193 doi:10.1111/bjh.14196

This content was last updated in August 2018.