
### Correct Answer: D) Transferrin saturation and serum ferritin level 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose hereditary hemochromatosis.

#### **Key Point:** Atypical presentations of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis, particularly with hook-like osteophytes of the second and third metacarpophalangeal joints, suggest the possibility of hemochromatosis; evaluating the transferrin saturation and serum ferritin level should be considered.

The most appropriate test to perform next is transferrin saturation and serum ferritin level. Historically, patients with hereditary hemochromatosis presented with signs of cirrhosis, diabetes mellitus, and skin pigmentation. Because of earlier recognition, fatigue, arthralgias, and loss of libido are more common presenting symptoms. Patients with hemochromatosis have rheumatic symptoms that typically involve the small joints of the hand, especially the second and third metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joints associated with characteristic radiographic findings, including hook-like osteophytes. Guidelines support initial testing with transferrin saturation to diagnosis iron overload. A transferrin saturation greater than 45% is often chosen as the cutoff to warrant additional testing, although this threshold has lower specificity and positive predictive value compared with higher cutoff values. A normal serum ferritin level and transferrin saturation less than 45% have a negative predictive value of 97% to exclude iron overload.
Symmetrical involvement of MCP joints suggests the possibility of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), but hook-like osteophytes on the metacarpal heads is a disease-specific finding for hemochromatosis. For these reasons, RA is an unlikely diagnosis, and it is unnecessary to perform rheumatoid factor and anti–cyclic citrullinated peptide antibody testing. The MCP involvement and radiographic changes also make primary osteoarthritis an unlikely diagnosis.
HFE genotyping is reserved for patients in whom the serum ferritin level is elevated, a high transferrin saturation is noted, or both. It would not be the appropriate initial test to perform in this patient who has had no other testing. C282Y homozygosity accounts for 80% to 85% of typical patients with hereditary hemochromatosis; C282Y/H63D and C282Y/S65C compound heterozygosity are the next most prevalent genotypes.
Since the advent of HFE mutational analysis, the role of liver biopsy has diminished. Liver biopsy is generally reserved to stage liver disease in patients known to be C282Y homozygous or compound heterozygous when the serum ferritin level is greater than 1000 ng/mL (1000 µg/L) with or without elevated liver enzyme levels. Liver biopsy may also be useful when other pathogens, including alcohol and chronic hepatitis, might be causing liver injury.

**Bibliography**

Bacon BR, Adams PC, Kowdley KV, Powell LW, Tavill AS; American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases. Diagnosis and management of hemochromatosis: 2011 practice guideline by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases. Hepatology. 2011;54:328-43. PMID: 21452290 doi:10.1002/hep.24330

This content was last updated in August 2018.