
### Correct Answer: A) Alteplase 

**Educational Objective:** Treat massive lower extremity deep venous thrombosis.

#### **Key Point:** Thrombolysis should be considered as the initial therapy for patients with iliofemoral deep venous thrombosis with acute limb ischemia.

Thrombolytic therapy with alteplase is the most appropriate management for this patient. He has signs and symptoms of extensive proximal deep venous thrombosis (DVT) leading to progressive edema of the leg, compromising arterial blood flow and causing acute ischemic injury. He is at risk for amputation of the leg and increased risk of death. Results of a systematic review of thrombolytic therapy showed greater improvement in venous patency, increased complete clot lysis, and reduced postthrombotic syndrome compared with anticoagulant therapy alone. Thrombolytic therapy was not associated with significant differences in mortality, stroke or intracerebral hemorrhage, pulmonary embolism, or leg ulceration; however, there were few events overall and with wide confidence intervals, and the review could not rule out clinically relevant differences. Bleeding risk with thrombolytic therapy is slightly greater than that associated with anticoagulant therapy, and strict eligibility criteria to reduce the risk of bleeding complications limit the applicability of this treatment. Thrombolytic agents include tissue plasminogen activator, streptokinase, and urokinase. Derivatives of tissue plasminogen activator, such as alteplase, are most commonly used in the setting of thrombosis because they more selectively activate fibrin-bound plasminogen.
The parenteral direct thrombin inhibitors argatroban and lepirudin are reserved for the treatment of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Argatroban and lepirudin are not thrombolytic.
Rivaroxaban, a non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulant, is an accepted monotherapy for DVT (heparin not required). However, rivaroxaban has no immediate effect on thrombus dissolution.
Unfractionated heparin potentiates the natural anticoagulant activity of antithrombin and acts as a nonspecific anticoagulant, mostly against thrombin and activated factor X. Heparin will prevent propagation of the thrombus but does not provide an immediate decrease in the size of an existing thrombus; therefore, it will not reverse tissue ischemia.
Patients with acute DVT or pulmonary embolism who receive anticoagulant therapy should not undergo inferior vena cava (IVC) filter insertion. Although an IVC filter might decrease the short-term risk of pulmonary embolism, it will predispose to subsequent DVT and increase the risk of postphlebitic syndrome. If a filter were used, it should be inserted after thrombolytic therapy, not following unfractionated heparin administration.

**Bibliography**

Watson L, Broderick C, Armon MP. Thrombolysis for acute deep vein thrombosis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014 Jan 23;(1):CD002783. doi:n10.1002/14651858.CD002783.pub3. Review. Update in: Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016 Nov 10;11:CD002783. PMID: 24452314

This content was last updated in March 2021.