
### Correct Answer: C) Transfuse crossmatch-incompatible blood 

**Educational Objective:** Treat autoimmune hemolytic anemia with transfusion of crossmatch-incompatible blood.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with severe symptomatic autoimmune hemolytic anemia, the autoantibody typically reacts against all erythrocytes, and a completely crossmatch-compatible unit may be impossible to find; these patients should receive ABO and Rh-matched blood even if it is not crossmatch compatible.

The most appropriate management is to transfuse with crossmatch-incompatible blood. Although the goal of pretransfusion testing is to ensure the provision of ABO and Rh crossmatch-compatible blood, compatibility might not be achievable in autoimmune hemolytic anemia. Autoimmune hemolytic anemia is caused by the production of autoreactive antibodies against the patient's own erythrocytes. The direct antiglobulin test detects the presence of IgG or complement coating the patient's erythrocytes. In many patients who have IgG autoantibodies, the autoantibodies are of sufficient concentration in the serum or plasma to cause an incompatible crossmatch with donor erythrocytes because the autoantibody is directed against a core antigen on erythrocytes that is present not only on the patient's erythrocytes but also on all donor cells. Although the autoantibody will shorten the survival of transfused cells, they will still survive for days or even weeks and should provide effective therapy for problems related to acute anemia until immunosuppressive therapy becomes effective. A response to immunosuppressive therapy takes 1 to 2 weeks. The major risk in these patients is the failure to identify any additional alloantibody that may be present and could lead to more fulminant acute hemolytic transfusion reactions. In the absence of pregnancy or previous transfusion, the likelihood of non-ABO erythrocyte alloantibody development is extremely low. Therefore, a unit that is ABO and Rh matched is appropriate, even if crossmatch incompatible.
It is not appropriate to withhold transfusion when a patient has severe anemia-related symptoms.
Plasma exchange therapy is not effective for removing IgG antibodies because of a large extravascular space for IgG distribution that equilibrates back into the vascular pool as plasma is removed.
Using “universal” group O-negative or group O-positive blood provides no advantage. It would still be crossmatch incompatible because of the underlying autoantibody. Uncrossmatched blood is reserved for situations of exsanguination in which blood transfusion is urgently required before “type and cross” can be completed.

**Bibliography**

Lechner K, Jäger U. How I treat autoimmune hemolytic anemias in adults. Blood. 2010;116:1831-8. PMID: 20548093 doi:10.1182/blood-2010-03-259325

This content was last updated in August 2018.