
### Correct Answer: B) Infection 

**Educational Objective:** Identify an increased risk of infection after autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

#### **Key Point:** Immediately following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, patients are at increased risk of infection because of compromised function of lymphocytes and neutrophils.

This patient is at increased risk of infection. The most common indications for autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) are multiple myeloma and relapsed non-Hodgkin lymphoma. With appropriate supportive care, many older patients are eligible for autologous HSCT. Fatigue, altered taste, diminished appetite, and persistent mild diarrhea are common adverse effects of high-dose chemotherapy, an integral part of HSCT. The most common concern in patients who have undergone HSCT is the increased risk of infection, which persists for 6 to 12 months after HSCT. This risk is attributed to compromised function of neutrophils and lymphocytes and is sometimes associated with mild neutropenia and lymphopenia. For this reason, patients should be counseled to report warning symptoms, such as fever and respiratory or other localizing symptoms of infection, early in the course.
Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) is a major risk of allogeneic HSCT. Acute GVHD occurs when graft T cells recognize the patient's normal gut, skin, and liver sinusoids as foreign. Severe GVHD is life threatening and is treated with high-dose glucocorticoids. Anti–T-lymphocyte immune globulin as part of the myeloablative conditioning regimen can markedly reduce the prevalence of chronic GVHD 2 years after allogeneic HSCT in HLA-matched siblings. GVHD is not a complication of autologous HSCT.
Hematopoietic clonal disorders, including myelodysplasia, leukemia, and lymphoma, can occur decades after completion of therapy. Typical agents associated with therapy-related myelodysplasia include alkylators, anthracyclines, and topoisomerase II inhibitors. Likewise, leukemia and lymphoma can develop as a late consequence of exposure to chemotherapy and radiation. But these disorders would not occur in the months immediately following uncomplicated autologous HSCT.

**Bibliography**

Hashmi SK. Basics of hematopoietic cell transplantation for primary care physicians and internists. Prim Care. 2016;43:693-701. PMID: 27866586 doi:10.1016/j.pop.2016.07.003

This content was last updated in August 2018.