
### Correct Answer: A) Apixaban 

**Educational Objective:** Treat pulmonary embolism with non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulant monotherapy.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with a Pulmonary Embolism Severity Index score of less than 65 are at low risk of death and may be managed in the outpatient setting with a non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulant, such as apixaban or rivaroxaban.

This patient should be treated with apixaban. Patients with pulmonary embolism (PE) were previously hospitalized for anticoagulant therapy. However, admission rates are decreasing because of the recognition that appropriate patients can be safely managed in the outpatient setting. The Outpatient Treatment for Pulmonary Embolism (OTPE) trial was an open-label, randomized, noninferiority trial. A total of 344 patients with acute, symptomatic, objectively confirmed PE were randomly assigned to inpatient or outpatient management. Patients were classified as low risk or high risk of death using the Pulmonary Embolism Severity Index (PESI). Among patients with low-risk PESI scores who were randomly assigned to outpatient or inpatient care, recurrent venous thromboembolism (VTE) occurred within 90 days in 1 of 171 (0.6%) outpatients and zero inpatients, a finding that met the criteria for noninferiority. The PESI stratifies patients into five risk categories for all-cause 30-day mortality based on 11 clinical parameters.
Pulmonary Embolism Severity Index

Clinical Parameter
Score
Age (in years) : (enter age)
Male sex : 10
Current cancer : 30
Chronic heart failure : 10
Chronic lung disease : 10
Pulse rate >110/min : 20
Systolic BP <100 mm Hg : 30
Respiration rate >30/min : 20
Temperature <36 °C (96.8 °F) : 20
Disorientation, lethargy, stupor, or coma : 60
Oxygen saturation <90% : 20
In the appropriate clinical setting, patients with a PESI score less than 65 are very low risk for 30-day mortality (0%), and those with a score less than 85 are low risk for 30-day mortality (1%); patients in these categories can be considered for outpatient management. This patient's PESI score is 59. Therefore, outpatient management can be considered, but the appropriate agent must be selected. The 2016 American College of Chest Physicians guidelines recommend non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants as first line for patients without cancer with VTE. Dabigatran and edoxaban require bridging with parenteral anticoagulation, whereas apixaban and rivaroxaban can be used as monotherapy in the treatment of VTE.
Long-term low-molecular-weight heparin has traditionally been considered first-line treatment in patients with malignancy, although recent data suggest that non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants are equally effective. This patient does not have cancer; therefore, apixaban is a more appropriate choice.

**Bibliography**

Aujesky D, Roy PM, Verschuren F, Righini M, Osterwalder J, Egloff M, et al. Outpatient versus inpatient treatment for patients with acute pulmonary embolism: an international, open-label, randomised, non-inferiority trial. Lancet. 2011;378:41-8. PMID: 21703676 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(11)60824-6

This content was last updated in September 2019.