
### Correct Answer: C) Whole body MRI 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate smoldering multiple myeloma with whole body MRI.

#### **Key Point:** The International Myeloma Working Group recommends that all patients with smoldering multiple myeloma undergo whole body MRI to assess for lytic lesions.

Whole body MRI is the most appropriate next diagnostic test for this patient. Smoldering multiple myeloma (MM) is characterized by a serum M protein level of 3 g/dL or greater (or ≥500 mg/24 hr of urinary monoclonal free light chains) or bone marrow plasma clonal cells of 10% or greater and no evidence of myeloma-related signs or symptoms requiring therapy. All patients with MM should be assessed for skeletal lesions at diagnosis, periodically thereafter, and when any new symptoms occur. Skeletal survey with plain radiography is commonly used to assess for lytic lesions in patients with monoclonal gammopathy. However, MRI has recently been found to be more sensitive at identifying myeloma bone lesions and soft tissue lesions from plasmacytoma. The International Myeloma Working Group recommends that all patients with smoldering MM undergo whole body MRI (or spine and pelvic MRI if whole body MRI is not available). Whole body MRI is considered the gold standard for imaging of the axial skeleton, for the evaluation of painful lesions, and for distinguishing benign versus malignant osteoporotic vertebral fractures. If a patient is discovered to have more than one lesion greater than 5 mm, the patient should be considered symptomatic and requires consideration for treatment. With equivocal small lesions, a second MRI should be performed after 3 to 6 months; if the MRI shows progression, the patient should be treated as having symptomatic myeloma. In this patient with smoldering MM, negative findings on plain radiographs do not reliably rule out a skeletal lesion, and MRI is needed for further evaluation.
Although bone scans are useful in detecting bone metastases from underlying cancer, the bone lesions in MM are often purely lytic and lack the enhanced osteoblastic activity that is shown by bone scan imaging. Bone scans should not be used to assess bone involvement in myeloma.
CT is more sensitive than plain radiography in detecting bone lesions but is less sensitive than MRI in detecting small lesions. Additionally, patients with MM are at high risk for contrast nephropathy from CT contrast.
No further testing is inappropriate because the detection of asymptomatic focal lesions on whole body MRI determines the plan of care for patients with smoldering MM.

**Bibliography**

Dimopoulos MA, Hillengass J, Usmani S, Zamagni E, Lentzsch S, Davies FE, et al. Role of magnetic resonance imaging in the management of patients with multiple myeloma: a consensus statement. J Clin Oncol. 2015; 33:657-64. PMID: 25605835 doi:10.1200/JCO.2014.57.9961

This content was last updated in August 2018.