
### Correct Answer: C) Prothrombin complex concentrate 

**Educational Objective:** Treat warfarin-associated bleeding.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with INR elevation and bleeding associated with warfarin administration, urgent reversal of anticoagulation should be accomplished using vitamin K and prothrombin complex concentrates.

The most appropriate treatment for this patient is vitamin K and prothrombin complex concentrates (PCCs), specifically, four-factor PCC. Four-factor PCC is a combination of inactivated factors II, VII, IX, and X. Treatment recommendations for over-anticoagulation with warfarin are based on the degree of over-anticoagulation as measured by the INR and clinical manifestations of bleeding. The first step in all cases of over-anticoagulation is withholding warfarin. For patients with an INR of 4.5 to 10 and with no evidence of bleeding, routine use of vitamin K is not recommended. For patients with an INR greater than 10 and with no evidence of bleeding, oral vitamin K is recommended. For patients with major bleeding, such as this patient with an intracerebral hemorrhage, rapid reversal of anticoagulation is recommended with four-factor PCC rather than fresh frozen plasma (FFP). These patients are also likely to benefit from the addition of vitamin K by slow intravenous injection rather than using coagulation factors alone. Clinical trials have shown four-factor PCC to be noninferior to FFP in reversing warfarin anticoagulation. However, four-factor PCC is preferred because of its rapid reversal of the INR, rapid infusion and administration, and no risk of volume overload as is sometimes seen with plasma infusions. Additionally, four-factor PCC does not require thawing or typing.
Although FFP contains the appropriate clotting factors, it requires thawing and large volumes to correct the INR. This patient also has heart failure, making infusion of FFP problematic because of the volume needed.
Idarucizumab is a monoclonal antibody approved for reversal of the anticoagulant effects of dabigatran. It is not used to reverse the effects of vitamin K–antagonist anticoagulants.
Recombinant activated factor VII has been found to reduce the INR in warfarin-associated bleeding, but its overall effect on outcome has been unclear, with a varied rate of thromboembolic events. It is not recommended for acute warfarin reversal.

**Bibliography**

Sarode R, Milling TJ Jr, Refaai MA, Mangione A, Schneider A, Durn BL, et al. Efficacy and safety of a 4-factor prothrombin complex concentrate in patients on vitamin K antagonists presenting with major bleeding: a randomized, plasma-controlled, phase IIIb study. Circulation. 2013;128:1234-43. PMID: 23935011 doi:10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.113.002283

This content was last updated in August 2018.