
### Correct Answer: A) Darbepoetin administration for a target hemoglobin level of 11 g/dL (110 g/L) 

**Educational Objective:** Treat the anemia of chronic kidney disease with an erythropoiesis-stimulating agent.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with symptomatic anemia of chronic kidney disease may be treated with erythropoiesis-stimulating agents to reduce transfusion requirements with a target hemoglobin level of 11 to 12 g/dL (110-120 g/L) to avoid increased risk of adverse cardiovascular events.

Darbepoetin should be administered to achieve a hemoglobin level of 11 to 12 g/dL (110-120 g/L). Erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs) such as erythropoietin and darbepoetin have dramatically reduced the need for transfusion in patients with the anemia of chronic kidney disease (CKD) but have little impact on quality of life or mortality. This patient has symptomatic anemia of CKD, which is determined by ruling out other causes of anemia in patients with reduced kidney function. Although symptomatic anemia occurs commonly in patients with advanced CKD who are receiving hemodialysis, it may also occur in patients with stages III and IV CKD. Regardless of stage, patients with symptomatic anemia of CKD will benefit from ESAs by reducing their transfusion requirements. However, a “normal” hemoglobin threshold is not the preferred target level for patients taking ESAs. Numerous studies have shown that ESAs increase adverse cardiovascular outcomes when the hemoglobin level exceeds 11 to 12 g/dL (110-120 g/L). Additionally, ESAs can cause hypertension and thrombosis.
Iron stores must be normal for ESAs to be effective. Patients undergoing dialysis are often treated with additional parenteral iron along with ESAs even if they are not overtly iron deficient. Although supplemental iron with darbepoetin may be required in this patient, iron therapy alone, either by oral or parenteral routes of administration, will not correct anemia in this patient who has no laboratory findings to support the diagnosis of iron deficiency.

**Bibliography**

Palmer SC, Saglimbene V, Craig JC, Navaneethan SD, Strippoli GF. Darbepoetin for the anaemia of chronic kidney disease. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014:CD009297. PMID: 24683046 doi:10.1002/14651858.CD009297.pub2

This content was last updated in August 2018.