
### Correct Answer: E) Observation 

**Educational Objective:** Manage minor bleeding in a patient taking a non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulant.

#### **Key Point:** Minor bleeding in patients taking a non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulant can be managed by discontinuation of the anticoagulant alone without additional therapy.

Observation is most appropriate in this patient at this time. She has no major or clinically relevant bleeding; therefore, a conservative treatment approach is reasonable. Her hemoglobin level is normal, she is hemodynamically stable, and she has no other signs of bleeding. The elimination half-life of dabigatran is 12 hours with anticoagulant effect for 24 hours in patients with normal kidney function. Dabigatran should be withheld for 24 hours or longer in this patient pending evaluation of her urinary tract. She has nonglomerular hematuria (no proteinuria, casts, or dysmorphic erythrocytes) and requires an evaluation of the upper and lower urinary tract for a cause of the hematuria. The necessity to fully evaluate hematuria is not influenced by the use of anticoagulant therapy.
Fresh frozen plasma has been used in patients experiencing major bleeding while taking a non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulant, but it is not typically adequate monotherapy in patients experiencing severe bleeding; it is often combined with four-factor prothrombin complex concentrate (4f-PCC). However, neither fresh frozen plasma nor 4f-PCC would be necessary in this patient because she is hemodynamically stable, the bleeding is not life threatening, and the anticoagulant effect of dabigatran will dissipate in 24 hours.
Idarucizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody fragment with a very high affinity for dabigatran. It is approved for dabigatran reversal for emergency surgery, for urgent procedures, or in patients experiencing life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding. Severe adverse effects may include thromboembolic events and possible hypersensitivity reactions, such as bronchospasm and pruritus. Because this patient does not have life-threatening bleeding, idarucizumab is not indicated.
Vitamin K administration has no effect on bleeding caused by non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants such as dabigatran. Vitamin K can be used to reverse over-anticoagulation with warfarin.

**Bibliography**

Pollack CV Jr, Reilly PA, Eikelboom J, Glund S, Verhamme P, Bernstein RA, et al. Idarucizumab for dabigatran reversal. N Engl J Med. 2015;373:511-20. PMID: 26095746 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1502000

This content was last updated in August 2018.