
### Correct Answer: C) Simple transfusion to a target hemoglobin level of 10 g/dL (100 g/L) 

**Educational Objective:** Manage preoperative transfusion in sickle cell anemia.

#### **Key Point:** Simple transfusion to achieve a hemoglobin level of 10 g/dL (100 g/L) in patients having low- to moderate-risk surgery reduces surgical complications equivalent to exchange transfusion with less risk and cost.

The patient should receive preoperative simple transfusion to achieve a hemoglobin level of 10 g/dL (100 g/L). Transfusions may have significant adverse effects, including infection, alloimmunization, and cumulative risk of iron overload. Therefore, persons with sickle cell disease (SCD) should not receive transfusions unless they have significant symptoms or signs of end-organ failure from their anemia or are preparing for surgery. Patients with SCD are at increased risk for perioperative pulmonary, infectious, and thrombotic complications. In 1994, a landmark study was published showing that simple transfusion to a target hemoglobin level of 10 g/dL (100 g/L) was equivalent to exchange transfusion in low- to medium-risk surgeries (low-risk surgeries include adenoidectomy and inguinal-hernia repair; medium-risk surgeries include cholecystectomy and joint replacement) in reducing surgical complications in patients with SCD with less risk, reduced cost, and increased convenience. More recently, guidelines have been published on the care of patients with SCD that strongly recommend simple transfusion to a target hemoglobin level of 10 g/dL (100 g/L) in patients requiring general anesthesia. In addition to transfusion, the use of incentive spirometry has also been shown in a randomized trial to improve surgical outcomes in patients with SCD. Overtransfusion should be avoided in these patients because of complications arising from increased blood viscosity. Typically, hemoglobin levels are kept at or below 10 g/dL (100 g/L).
Exchange transfusion is used for acute stroke or retinal artery occlusion or in patients with severe acute chest syndrome. When indicated, the target hemoglobin S level should be less than 30%.

**Bibliography**

Yawn BP, Buchanan GR, Afenyi-Annan AN, Ballas SK, Hassell KL, James AH, et al. Management of sickle cell disease: summary of the 2014 evidence-based report by expert panel members. JAMA. 2014;312:1033-48. PMID: 25203083 doi:10.1001/jama.2014.10517

This content was last updated in August 2018.