
### Correct Answer: D) No further testing 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with dyspnea using the Pulmonary Embolism Rule-Out Criteria.

#### **Key Point:** Patients identified as low risk and meeting the Pulmonary Embolism Rule-Out Criteria do not require D-dimer testing to eliminate the need for further diagnostic imaging.

The patient requires no further testing for pulmonary embolism. Many patients present to the emergency department with shortness of breath or chest pain. Inappropriate use of D-dimer testing and CT angiography led to the development of new American College of Physicians guidelines regarding the evaluation of patients with possible pulmonary embolism (PE). These guidelines use clinical decision tools (such as the Pulmonary Embolism Rule-Out Criteria [PERC]) to help risk stratify patients who present with shortness of breath or chest pain.
The PERC are defined as
Age younger than 50 years
Heart rate less than 100/min
Oxygen saturation 95% or greater
No hemoptysis
No estrogen use
No previous deep venous thrombosis or PE
No unilateral leg swelling
No surgery or trauma requiring hospitalization in the last 4 weeks
To avoid unnecessary testing, patients with a low pretest probability using a validated prediction tool such as the Wells Criteria for Pulmonary Embolism and negative PERC should undergo no further evaluation. In patients with intermediate pretest probability or positive PERC, the D-dimer level should be obtained. Patients with a high pretest probability should proceed directly to imaging, without D-dimer testing.
Because this patient has a low pretest probability and the PERC are negative, neither D-dimer testing nor CT angiography of the chest should be performed. A study of multiorgan ultrasonography was shown to be helpful in the diagnosis of PE in adults with a Wells score of 4 or greater or a positive D-dimer test. A positive test was defined by any one of the following: one or more pulmonary subpleural infarctions on lung ultrasonography; right ventricular dilatation or thrombi on heart ultrasonography; or deep venous thrombosis on lower extremity ultrasonography. Multiorgan ultrasonography was found to be 90% sensitive and 86% specific compared with CT angiography. Multiorgan ultrasonography was significantly more sensitive than individual ultrasonographic examinations of the lungs, heart, or lower extremities.
Echocardiography is unlikely to be helpful in this patient because her pretest probability of pulmonary embolism was very low, and echocardiography alone is an insensitive test.

**Bibliography**

Kline JA, Courtney DM, Kabrhel C, Moore CL, Smithline HA, Plewa MC, et al. Prospective multicenter evaluation of the pulmonary embolism rule-out criteria. J Thromb Haemost. 2008;6:772-80. PMID: 18318689 doi:10.1111/j.1538-7836.2008.02944.x

This content was last updated in August 2018.