
### Correct Answer: C) Imatinib 

**Educational Objective:** Treat chronic myeloid leukemia with an oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor.

#### **Key Point:** Tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as imatinib are effective for initial treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia in the chronic phase.

This patient should be treated with imatinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI); he has chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) presenting in the chronic phase and requires therapy targeting the BCR-ABL fusion gene. Translocation of the long arm of chromosomes 9 and 22 leads to the fusion gene of BCR-ABL, which is characteristic of CML. CML is divided into the chronic phase, accelerated phase, or blast crisis depending on clinical and pathologic characteristics. Approximately 90% of patients with CML present in the chronic phase with less than 10% blasts in the blood and bone marrow. TKIs are effective in the treatment of the chronic phase of CML and are usually first-line treatment. The three TKIs approved for initial treatment of CML are imatinib, dasatinib, and nilotinib. Other newer generation TKIs are approved for patients who are intolerant of these first three TKIs or who have CML resistant to them. Although TKIs have some unique adverse effects and drug interactions, they are well tolerated compared with chemotherapy and transplantation.
Bone marrow transplantation for CML in the chronic phase is reserved for patients with resistant disease or who are intolerant of TKIs.
Chemotherapy with idarubicin and cytarabine is used for patients with CML in blast crisis with more than 20% blasts and is not intended for the chronic phase as in this patient. This therapy is similar to the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia.
Part of the differential diagnosis for extreme granulocytic leukocytosis (leukocyte count >50,000/µL [50 × 109/L]) is the leukemoid reaction. When sepsis occurs, the bone marrow responds by releasing early cells into circulation, and a leukemoid reaction may be difficult to distinguish from CML in an acutely ill patient. However, few patients with typical sepsis, even gram-negative bacillary bacteremia, develop such counts. Blasts and basophils are much less likely with a leukemoid reaction. This patient has been chronically, not acutely, ill, and CML is a much more likely explanation of the leukocytosis than is sepsis; therefore, antibiotics are not needed.

**Bibliography**

Cortes J, Kantarjian H. How I treat newly diagnosed chronic phase CML. Blood. 2012;120:1390-7. PMID: 22613793 doi:10.1182/blood-2012-03-378919

This content was last updated in August 2018.