
### Correct Answer: B) Flow cytometry 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria.

#### **Key Point:** Diagnosis of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria is based on flow cytometry results, which can detect CD55 and CD59 deficiency on the surface of peripheral erythrocytes or leukocytes.

Flow cytometry is the most appropriate test to perform next. This patient has pancytopenia with significant intravascular hemolysis and hemoglobinuria, most likely caused by paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH). Patients with PNH commonly note fatigue and nonspecific abdominal pain, which worsens during times of increased hemolysis. These patients have a mutation in the gene that regulates production of glycophosphatidylinositol-anchoring proteins. Flow cytometry will demonstrate the absence of glycophosphatidylinositol-linked proteins, such as CD55 and CD59, on leukocytes; these proteins normally prevent complement activation on the erythrocyte surface. Bone marrow aplasia and corresponding pancytopenia in these patients are common, and they have an increased risk of evolving to a myelodysplastic syndrome or acute leukemia. Patients with PNH also have an increased risk for thrombotic complications, including thrombi in unusual sites, such as the portal venous system or sagittal veins in the central nervous system.
Hereditary angioedema is caused by the unregulated activation of the complement cascade owing to lack of or ineffective function of C1 esterase inhibitor, leading to increased vascular permeability. C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency has no role in the pathogenesis of PNH.
While complement-mediated hemolysis is a core feature of PNH, the complement system functions normally. Neither excess of complement nor IgG antibodies are noted on the erythrocyte surface that would be revealed by a direct antiglobulin test.
Vitamin B12 deficiency can cause pancytopenia and is commonly associated with some features of intramedullary hemolysis resulting from ineffective erythropoiesis. However, vitamin B12 deficiency is associated with macrocytic anemia, which is not present in this patient. Hemoglobinuria is present in PNH but not seen in vitamin B12 deficiency. The first step in diagnosing vitamin B12 deficiency is a cobalamin measurement. Methylmalonic acid and homocysteine measurements may be helpful in cases of diagnostic uncertainty because they are elevated in 98% of patients with cobalamin deficiency. Methylmalonic acid measurement is unnecessary in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Sutherland DR, Illingworth A, Keeney M, Richards SJ. High-sensitivity detection of PNH red blood cells, red cell precursors, and white blood cells. Curr Protoc Cytom. 2015;72:6.37.1-30. PMID: 25827482 doi:10.1002/0471142956.cy0637s72

This content was last updated in August 2018.