
### Correct Answer: D) No treatment 

**Educational Objective:** Manage inflammatory anemia.

#### **Key Point:** Inflammatory anemia is usually mild to moderate in severity, characterized by low serum iron levels and total iron-binding capacity and elevated serum ferritin level, and usually requires no specific therapy.

No treatment for anemia is necessary at this time. The patient has findings typical of inflammatory anemia. Inflammatory anemia occurs in response to the inflammatory cytokine IL-6 that leads to hepatic synthesis of hepcidin, which in turn causes proteolysis of the membrane protein ferroportin. As a result, iron absorption from the gut is diminished, as is iron release from macrophages. Patients with chronic infections, such as tuberculosis or osteomyelitis; patients with malignancy; or patients with other chronic inflammatory conditions, such as rheumatologic diseases, can develop inflammatory anemia. Inflammatory anemia is characterized by a hemoglobin level of approximately 10 g/dL (100 g/L) with normocytic or slightly microcytic indices. Characteristically, the serum iron level is low, and the total iron-binding capacity (TIBC) is often low, as well. The serum ferritin level is elevated. In contrast, patients with iron deficiency have a low serum ferritin level and an elevated TIBC. Patients with inflammatory anemia do not require specific therapy.
The use of erythropoiesis-stimulating agents, such as erythropoietin or longer acting darbepoetin, should not be used to treat inflammatory anemia in most patients with cancer because of the lack of benefit and accompanying risks, including hypertension, stroke, and tumor progression. Patients with inflammatory anemia do not respond to oral or parenteral iron supplementation.

**Bibliography**

Wang CY, Babitt JL. Hepcidin regulation in the anemia of inflammation. Curr Opin Hematol. 2016;23:189-97. PMID: 26886082 doi:10.1097/MOH.0000000000000236

This content was last updated in August 2018.