
### Correct Answer: C) Cryoprecipitate 

**Educational Objective:** Treat coagulopathy of liver disease.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with coagulopathy of liver disease and low fibrinogen levels who are experiencing bleeding should receive immediate cryoprecipitate transfusion.

This patient should receive a transfusion with cryoprecipitate. He has the coagulopathy of liver disease, characterized by thrombocytopenia, prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and prothrombin time (PT), elevated D-dimer level, and hypofibrinogenemia. The patient's hemodynamic instability is addressed with fluids and erythrocyte transfusion. Vitamin K will help correct the PT, but he may also need fresh frozen plasma (FFP). Thrombocytopenia is addressed with platelet transfusion. Fibrinogen levels less than 100 mg/dL (1 g/L) associated with active bleeding should be corrected. Cryoprecipitate contains more fibrinogen than FFP and is the blood component of choice for treating this patient. It is often difficult to distinguish between disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) and the coagulopathy of liver disease, but a normal or increased factor VIII level points to liver disease instead of DIC. Somewhat paradoxically, factor VIII levels are supranormal in the coagulopathy of liver disease because it is produced in extrahepatic endothelial cells, and a hepatically synthesized factor is required for factor VIII clearance. The management of these coagulopathies is often the same.
Recombinant activated factor VII, activated prothrombin complex concentrates, or recombinant porcine factor VIII is recommended to treat patients with acquired hemophilia associated with high titers of antibody directed against factor VIII. Recombinant activated factor VII may also be used to treat uncontrolled bleeding in patients with liver disease unresponsive to replacement of platelets, FFP, vitamin K, and cryoprecipitate.
ε-Aminocaproic acid (EACA), an inhibitor of fibrinolysis, has been shown to reduce blood loss after cardiac and orthopedic surgery. Accelerated fibrinolysis plays some role in the coagulopathy of bleeding in liver disease, and EACA may reduce bleeding in some of these patients. No laboratory test correlates fibrinolysis with bleeding risk, and EACA should not be used before treating more objective measures of coagulopathy, such as low fibrinogen levels.
Four-factor prothrombin complex concentrate is used to treat patients with warfarin toxicity and life-threatening bleeding. It should not be used more routinely to treat patients with the coagulopathy of liver disease and bleeding until conventional component support proves ineffective.

**Bibliography**

Tripodi A, Mannucci PM. The coagulopathy of chronic liver disease. N Engl J Med. 2011;365:147-56. PMID: 21751907 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1011170

This content was last updated in March 2021.