
### Correct Answer: B) Enoxaparin 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent venous thromboembolism in a hospitalized patient with cancer.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with cancer who are hospitalized, prophylactic anticoagulation with low-molecular-weight heparin should be provided to reduce the risk of venous thromboembolism.

This patient should receive prophylactic enoxaparin. Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a major contributor to morbidity and mortality in patients with cancer. It is the second leading cause of death after the cancer itself. Hospitalized patients with cancer have an even greater thrombotic risk. The Prophylaxis in Medical Patients with Enoxaparin (MEDENOX) trial enrolled 1102 medically ill patients who were randomly assigned to receive one of three subcutaneous regimens: enoxaparin sodium, 20 mg/d; enoxaparin sodium, 40 mg/d; or placebo. The frequency of VTE was reduced in a statistically significant manner in patients receiving enoxaparin sodium, 40 mg/d. For hospitalized patients with cancer and acute illness, pharmacologic prophylaxis should be used unless a clear contraindication exists.
Although aspirin has a role for prevention of recurrent VTE in patients without cancer, it does not have a place in primary prophylaxis.
The American College of Physicians guideline on VTE prophylaxis in hospitalized patients recommends against the use of graduated compression stockings because of the lack of difference in risk for mortality or symptomatic VTE. However, risk for lower-extremity skin damage was increased among patients treated with compression stockings.
The American College of Physicians guideline also noted that in patients at high risk for bleeding events or in whom heparin is contraindicated for other reasons, intermittent pneumatic compression may be a reasonable option because evidence suggests it is beneficial in surgical patients. However, intermittent pneumatic compression has not been sufficiently evaluated as a stand-alone intervention in medical patients to reliably estimate benefits and harms.
Warfarin is typically not used as VTE prophylaxis in hospitalized patients with cancer because of its delayed onset of antithrombotic action and the need for dose adjustment. Although low-molecular-weight heparin is more effective than warfarin for treatment of cancer-associated VTE, no randomized trials have compared the benefit of prophylactic heparin with warfarin in hospitalized medical patients.

**Bibliography**

Samama MM, Cohen AT, Darmon JY, Desjardins L, Eldor A, Janbon C, et al. A comparison of enoxaparin with placebo for the prevention of venous thromboembolism in acutely ill medical patients. Prophylaxis in Medical Patients with Enoxaparin Study Group. N Engl J Med. 1999;341:793-800. PMID: 10477777

This content was last updated in August 2018.