
### Correct Answer: E) Expectant care 

**Educational Objective:** Manage sickle cell disease in an uncomplicated pregnancy.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with sickle cell disease and uncomplicated pregnancy should be closely monitored and treatment withheld until symptoms appear or some measurable parameter changes.

This patient requires no treatment other than expectant care. She should be closely monitored and treatment should be withheld until symptoms appear or some measurable parameter changes. Sickle cell disease (SCD) is associated with maternal morbidity and mortality from stroke, vaso-occlusive crisis, and acute chest syndrome. Furthermore, the risk of eclampsia is higher in pregnant women with SCD. Fetal complications are also more common in patients with SCD, including low birth weight, spontaneous abortion, early delivery, and growth retardation. No routine interventions have been proven to decrease these complications, so close follow-up by hematologic and obstetric specialists and prompt management of evolving problems is important. Pregnancy outcomes are difficult to predict in pregnant patients with SCD, but one of the best indicators is the outcome from a previous pregnancy, which is encouraging in this patient.
Antiplatelet drugs, such as clopidogrel, have been associated with increased risk of bleeding and ablatio placenta without any clear benefit in pregnant patients with SCD.
Although the role of transfusion in the management of pregnant patients with SCD lacks consensus, no clear benefit has been seen with either simple or exchange transfusion in patients with uncomplicated disease or pregnancy. However, pregnant patients with SCD who have worsening symptomatic anemia should undergo transfusion. Those with past or new severe obstetric or fetal complications, those with twins, or those with chronic organ dysfunction may also benefit from transfusion. The decision to transfuse must be balanced against the risks of transfusion, including alloimmunization and delayed transfusion reaction, as well as iron and volume overload. Because this patient has an uncomplicated pregnancy, exchange or simple transfusion is not indicated.
Hydroxyurea therapy results in decreased mortality in SCD and is indicated in patients with recurrent painful episodes, acute chest syndrome, and symptomatic anemia. However, because of its potential teratogenicity, hydroxyurea should not be administered during pregnancy. Proper contraception before hydroxyurea initiation should be discussed with the nonpregnant patient. This patient has no indication for hydroxyurea treatment.

**Bibliography**

Boga C, Ozdogu H. Pregnancy and sickle cell disease: a review of the current literature. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2016;98:364-74. PMID: 26672916 doi:10.1016/j.critrevonc.2015.11.018

This content was last updated in August 2018.