
### Correct Answer: D) α-Thalassemia trait 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose α-thalassemia trait.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with α-thalassemia trait have chronic microcytic anemia with hemoglobin levels of approximately 10 g/dL (100 g/L) and a normal hemoglobin electrophoresis pattern.

The most likely diagnosis is α-thalassemia trait. This patient has a chronic microcytic anemia. Patients with α-thalassemia trait have inadequate production of two copies of the α gene on chromosome 16 (α−/α− or −−/αα). Such patients have a chronic microcytic anemia with hemoglobin levels of approximately 10 g/dL (100 g/L). Hemoglobin A levels, although reduced in quantity, are otherwise normal in these patients and will migrate in a normal pattern on electrophoresis. Furthermore, there is no increase in the minor hemoglobin components, hemoglobin A2 and hemoglobin F. It is possible to identify specific chromosomal abnormalities that establish the diagnosis of α-thalassemia, but physicians typically make a clinical diagnosis based on family history, complete blood count, peripheral blood smear, and hemoglobin electrophoresis and by ruling out other causes of microcytic anemia. Patients with thalassemia should receive supplemental folate but should not receive iron supplementation; they are not iron deficient and they have an increased ability to absorb iron, which can lead to iron overload. Genetic counseling may be indicated in reproductive planning.
This patient's iron study results are normal, and her serum ferritin level is greater than 100 ng/mL (100 µg/L), essentially ruling out iron deficiency.
Inflammatory anemia, also known as anemia of chronic disease, is characterized by a low serum iron level and often a concomitant reduction in iron-binding capacity in the absence of iron deficiency. The iron studies in this patient are inconsistent with that diagnosis. Mild microcytosis may be seen in the anemia of inflammation but not as severely as in this patient.
Patients who are silent carriers for α-thalassemia have a defect in production of a single α gene. These patients have a normal hemoglobin level and no microcytosis. They are clinically healthy.
Patients with β-thalassemia minor also have a chronic microcytic anemia and a normal electrophoretic pattern for hemoglobin A. But in β-thalassemia, the excess α chains link with δ and γ chains to produce increased amounts of hemoglobin A2 and hemoglobin F, respectively.

**Bibliography**

Brancaleoni V, Di Pierro E, Motta I, Cappellini MD. Laboratory diagnosis of thalassemia. Int J Lab Hematol. 2016;38 Suppl 1:32-40. PMID: 27183541 doi:10.1111/ijlh.12527

This content was last updated in August 2018.