
### Correct Answer: B) Emergent delivery 

**Educational Objective:** Manage pre-eclampsia in a pregnant woman with thrombocytopenia.

#### **Key Point:** Pre-eclampsia, HELLP (Hemolysis, Elevated Liver enzymes, and Low Platelets) syndrome, and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura–hemolytic uremic syndrome can all present with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia during pregnancy; pre-eclampsia is defined by hypertension, edema, and proteinuria after the 20th week of gestation.

The most appropriate management of this patient is emergency delivery of the fetus. Several disorders are characterized by microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (MAHA) and thrombocytopenia during pregnancy. Pre-eclampsia, HELLP (Hemolysis, Elevated Liver enzymes, and Low Platelets) syndrome, and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura–hemolytic uremic syndrome (TTP-HUS) have different clinical features but with significant overlap. Pre-eclampsia typically presents with hypertension, peripheral edema, and proteinuria, most commonly in the third trimester of pregnancy. TTP-HUS is characterized by MAHA and thrombocytopenia developing in the first or second trimester. Additionally, neurologic findings and fever are more common in TTP-HUS than in the other syndromes. HELLP syndrome is characterized by right upper quadrant pain and elevated liver enzyme levels. Disseminated intravascular coagulation parameters may be found in patients with pre-eclampsia and HELLP syndrome but should be absent in those with TTP-HUS. This patient has pre-eclampsia, defined as hypertension (systolic blood pressure >140 mm Hg or diastolic blood pressure >90 mm Hg) after the 20th week of gestation with edema and proteinuria, which requires immediate delivery. Symptoms usually resolve with delivery. HELLP syndrome is similarly treated.
Eculizumab is used to treat atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), which is the most common form of HUS in pregnancy. It is associated with congenital defects in the alternate pathway of the complement system. Although this patient has proteinuria, the normal creatinine level makes this an unlikely diagnosis because marked kidney disease is a hallmark of this disorder.
High-dose glucocorticoids would be useful to treat immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) in pregnancy, especially toward the end of the third trimester. ITP is diagnosed when an isolated thrombocytopenia is discovered, but it is not associated with hypertension, proteinuria, or schistocytes on the peripheral blood smear.
Although she has thrombocytopenia, fragmented erythrocytes, and headache, her elevated blood pressure, edema, and proteinuria point to pre-eclampsia as a more likely diagnosis than TTP. Therefore, plasma exchange would not be appropriate.

**Bibliography**

Shatzel JJ, Taylor JA. Syndromes of thrombotic microangiopathy. Med Clin North Am. 2017;101:395-415. PMID: 28189178 doi:10.1016/j.mcna.2016.09.010

This content was last updated in March 2020.