
### Correct Answer: D) von Willebrand disease 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose von Willebrand disease.

#### **Key Point:** A history of mucosal or endometrial bleeding, normal prothrombin and activated partial thromboplastin times, and normal platelet count with evidence of a qualitative platelet defect suggest the diagnosis of von Willebrand disease.

Von Willebrand disease (vWD) is the most common inherited hemostatic defect. Quantitative or qualitative abnormalities in the portion of the factor VIII molecule that facilitates binding of platelets to injured endothelium lead to bleeding. Often the hemostatic defect is mild, characterized as mucosal or endometrial bleeding, and requires an additional hemostatic insult, such as surgery, menstruation, or platelet injury from NSAIDs, to provoke bleeding. The patient's bleeding history and normal prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), and platelet count, along with an abnormal screening of platelet function, support the diagnosis of vWD. This diagnosis can be confirmed by finding a quantitative reduction in von Willebrand antigen and a qualitative reduction in von Willebrand ristocetin cofactor activity.
Congenital hemophilia A is an X-linked hereditary disorder of factor VIII deficiency. Although women may be carriers, they rarely have symptomatic bleeding. Laboratory features in inherited hemophilia would include a prolonged aPTT that corrects with mixing studies and a normal PT. Assay of individual factor levels would confirm factor VIII deficiency. Platelet function should be normal. These features are not present in this patient, making this diagnosis unlikely.
Factor XI deficiency is expressed in a clinically heterogeneous manner. Many patients are asymptomatic, even when stressed with major surgery, but some might have a bleeding history similar to this patient's. The diagnosis is more prevalent in patients of Jewish descent, and the aPTT should be prolonged and should correct with mixing. This patient's normal aPTT and platelet dysfunction make this an unlikely diagnosis.
The lupus anticoagulant is an acquired autoantibody to phospholipids that behaves like an inhibitor in the test tube. Typically, the aPTT is prolonged and does not correct when mixed with normal plasma. Despite the prolonged aPTT, lupus anticoagulants are associated with thrombosis, not bleeding. The patient's normal aPTT and abnormal Platelet Function Analyzer-100 result are not compatible with the presence of a lupus anticoagulant.

**Bibliography**

Tcherniantchouk O, Laposata M, Marques MB. The isolated prolonged PTT. Am J Hematol. 2013;88:82-5. PMID: 22811044 doi:10.1002/ajh.23285

This content was last updated in August 2018.