
### Correct Answer: B) Hemoglobin S β-thalassemia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose hemoglobin S β-thalassemia.

#### **Key Point:** Patients who coinherit hemoglobin S and β-thalassemia genes typically have lifelong mild hemolytic anemia with microcytosis and detectable hemoglobin A on electrophoresis; the amount of hemoglobin A is inversely related to the severity of the symptoms and risk of complications.

This patient most likely has hemoglobin S β-thalassemia (Sβ-thalassemia). Patients with Sβ-thalassemia generally have milder disease than those homozygous for hemoglobin S (HbS). However, patients with Sβ-thalassemia can have painful crises of varied frequency and intensity. Some of the variability in presentation depends on the relative expression of the β-globin gene (from β+ to β0), which in turn determines the relative amount of hemoglobin A (HbA). Most Black persons with Sβ-thalassemia are β+ and have between 5% and 30% HbA; the more HbA present, the less severe the symptoms and fewer the complications. Occasionally, with a milder disease course, patients do not present until adolescence or early adulthood. Hemoglobin electrophoresis is essential in making a specific diagnosis of a sickling disorder. Patients with Sβ-thalassemia have a slightly reduced hemoglobin level and microcytic erythrocytes. Characteristically, their HbS levels are about 60%. In contrast, patients with sickle cell trait have HbS levels well below 50%, typically closer to 30%, and proportionally more HbA. More notably, patients with sickle cell trait do not experience painful crises and have normal hemoglobin levels.
Patients with hemoglobin SS disease (sickle cell anemia) have greater than 90% HbS and no HbA. The clinical expression and severity of sickle cell anemia may be quite variable, and some patients may have few acute pain events and no other major complications, so that the diagnosis may not be suspected until later in life. The level of hemoglobin F detected in these patients may also vary, with increased hemoglobin F levels correlating with milder disease, but Hb A should be undetectable and no microcytosis should be seen.
Hemoglobin E disease results from a point mutation in the β-globin gene that causes decreased production of β-globin and results in a thalassemia-like syndrome. Hemoglobin E migrates in a different pattern than HbA and would be revealed on hemoglobin electrophoresis, in addition to increased levels of HbA2, as with other β-thalassemias. Although patients with hemoglobin E disease will have mild anemia, they do not experience acute pain events.

**Bibliography**

Benites BD, Bastos SO, Baldanzi G, Dos Santos AO, Ramos CD, Costa FF, et al. Sickle cell/β-thalassemia: Comparison of Sβ(0) and Sβ(+) Brazilian patients followed at a single institution. Hematology. 2016;21:623-629. PMID: 27237196

This content was last updated in August 2018.