
### Correct Answer: A) Continue crystalloid resuscitation 

**Educational Objective:** Manage acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding with a restrictive transfusion strategy.

#### **Key Point:** A hemoglobin transfusion threshold of less than 7 g/dL (70 g/L) for hemodynamically stable patients is associated with less blood use and lower mortality compared with a more liberal hemoglobin transfusion threshold of 9 g/dL (90 g/L).

This patient should continue to receive crystalloid resuscitation. In the absence of symptoms of anemia, hemodynamic instability, or massive bleeding, a patient such as this one does not require a blood transfusion. A randomized controlled trial of 900 patients with acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding and a hemoglobin level less than 12 g/dL (120 g/L) compared a restrictive transfusion strategy (hemoglobin transfusion threshold of 7 g/dL [70 g/L]) to a liberal strategy (hemoglobin transfusion threshold of 9 g/dL [90 g/L]). Half of the patients had peptic ulcer disease as the source of bleeding. Mortality was lower in the restrictive group compared with the liberal transfusion group (5% versus 9%). Half of the patients in the restrictive group did not receive transfusion at all. Therefore, crystalloid volume resuscitation is appropriate and erythrocyte transfusion unnecessary in this patient.
Plasma transfusion is not indicated in the absence of coagulopathy. Fresh frozen plasma (FFP) contains all of the coagulation factors. FFP use is excessive in the United States and other countries despite published guidelines regarding its use. FFP is ineffective at treating mild coagulopathies. Indications for the use of FFP and other plasma-based products include treatment or prevention of coagulopathy from massive transfusion, bleeding associated with multiple acquired clotting factor deficiencies (liver disease, disseminated intravascular coagulation), and major warfarin-associated hemorrhage when a four-factor prothrombin complex concentrate is not available. There is no reason to suspect that this patient has a coagulopathy requiring replacement of clotting factors.
Platelet counts greater than 50,000/µL (50 × 109/L) do not warrant platelet transfusion in most situations when thrombocytopenia is the only hemostatic defect. The exception is neurosurgical patients, in whom platelet counts of approximately 100,000/µL (100 × 109/L) should be maintained.

**Bibliography**

Villanueva C, Colomo A, Bosch A, Concepción M, Hernandez-Gea V, Aracil C, et al. Transfusion strategies for acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding. N Engl J Med. 2013;368:11-21. PMID: 23281973 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1211801

This content was last updated in August 2018.