
### Correct Answer: B) Hydroxyurea 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent complications of sickle cell disease with hydroxyurea.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with sickle cell disease, hydroxyurea therapy has been shown to decrease vaso-occlusive episodes and acute chest syndrome, to decrease transfusion requirements and hospitalizations, and to prolong overall survival.

The most appropriate management for this patient is to begin hydroxyurea therapy. The benefits of hydroxyurea in reducing painful crises and complications of sickle cell disease (SCD) were discovered 20 years ago. Hydroxyurea acts as a nitric oxide donor and can decrease vascular and platelet activity. It also increases levels of hemoglobin F, which, in turn, enhances hemoglobin oxygen avidity and decreases the likelihood of sickling. Hydroxyurea therapy is indicated for patients who experience frequent painful episodes or have a history of acute chest syndrome, severe vaso-occlusive events, or severe symptomatic anemia. It has been shown to decrease vaso-occlusive episodes and acute chest syndrome, to decrease transfusion requirements and hospitalizations, and to prolong overall survival. Unfortunately, hydroxyurea remains underused.
As in other hemolytic anemias, folate is consumed during active hemolysis, which could lead to a megaloblastic anemia. Folic acid supplementation, 1 mg/d, is recommended for most patients with chronic hemolytic anemia. This patient has an elevated mean corpuscular volume related to the reticulocytosis, so additional folate is not needed.
Incentive spirometry is useful in preventing acute chest syndrome in patients hospitalized with an acute pain event and chest symptoms, but it is unnecessary to continue treatment after the patient is pain free.
Although simple or exchange transfusion may be indicated in the therapy of acute chest syndrome, no evidence supports continuing transfusion therapy after the patient has recovered. Additionally, persons with SCD should not receive transfusions unless they have significant symptoms from their anemia (dizziness, shortness of breath, chest pain that is significantly worse than their typical vaso-occlusive symptoms) or they have signs of end-organ damage (such as acute neurologic symptoms, acute chest syndrome, multiorgan failure). Transfusions for simple vaso-occlusive pain are generally not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Kato GJ. New insights into sickle cell disease: mechanisms and investigational therapies. Curr Opin Hematol. 2016;23:224-32. PMID: 27055046 doi:10.1097/MOH.0000000000000241

This content was last updated in August 2018.