
### Correct Answer: D) Lenalidomide 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with low-risk myelodysplastic syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with myelodysplastic syndrome requiring frequent transfusions, supplemental treatments to help decrease transfusion requirements, such as lenalidomide, should be used to improve quality of life and decrease transfusion-associated iron overload and alloimmunization.

This patient with transfusion-dependent myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) should be treated with lenalidomide. Treatment of MDS has two goals. The first goal is to relieve transfusion dependence; the second is to prevent transformation to acute myeloid leukemia (AML). He has low-risk MDS with chromosome 5q deletion (−5q), and lenalidomide will help with his transfusion-dependent anemia. Patients with infrequent transfusion requirements can be supported with periodic transfusions alone, but in patients requiring frequent transfusions, supplemental treatments to help decrease transfusion requirements should be used to improve quality of life and decrease transfusion-associated iron overload and alloimmunization. In more than 50% of patients with −5q MDS, treatment with low-dose lenalidomide has been shown to achieve transfusion independence and is recommended as first-line therapy. Other second-line treatments for low-risk MDS with −5q include recombinant erythropoietin and the hypomethylating agents azacitidine and decitabine. Hypomethylating agents can reduce transfusion requirements and delay transformation to AML. However, both also worsen blood counts initially and may take up to 6 months to show an effect. Finally, this patient is not at high risk for AML transformation.
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is usually performed in young patients with high-risk MDS. In patients with low-risk disease, early transplantation is not recommended and can be associated with worse survival.
Immunosuppression with antithymocyte globulin and cyclosporine, similar to that used for aplastic anemia, has been shown to decrease transfusion requirements in younger patients (age <65 years) and those with hypoplastic bone marrow. However, in this 74-year-old patient with −5q mutation, immunosuppression is not effective and has significant adverse effects.
Imatinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that is effective in treating patients with chronic myeloid leukemia and dysregulated tyrosine kinase as a result of the BCR-ABL fusion gene. It is not effective in MDS.

**Bibliography**

Giagounidis A, Mufti GJ, Mittelman M, Sanz G, Platzbecker U, Muus P, et al. Outcomes in RBC transfusion-dependent patients with low-/intermediate-1-risk myelodysplastic syndromes with isolated deletion 5q treated with lenalidomide: a subset analysis from the MDS-004 study. Eur J Haematol. 2014;93:429-38. PMID: 24813620 doi:10.1111/ejh.12380

This content was last updated in August 2018.