
### Correct Answer: C) Peripheral blood smear 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura.

#### **Key Point:** In the proper clinical setting, a peripheral blood smear showing schistocytes in a patient with thrombocytopenia and hemolytic anemia establishes a presumptive diagnosis of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and confirms the need to initiate early, life-saving therapy.

The finding of schistocytes on the peripheral blood smear is all that is needed to initiate therapy for presumed thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). This patient's clinical features of fever, change in mental status, thrombocytopenia, and features of hemolytic anemia (low haptoglobin level, elevated lactate dehydrogenase level, elevated reticulocyte count) suggest TTP. The presence of schistocytes on the peripheral blood smear will confirm the diagnosis of a microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (MAHA) and a presumptive diagnosis of TTP and allows for early treatment. Prompt diagnosis is critical because TTP is fatal in 90% of patients without therapy. Patients require emergent treatment with plasma exchange.
The most common cause of TTP results from a deficiency in the protease ADAMTS13, which cleaves the high-molecular-weight multimers of von Willebrand factor (vWF). The decrease in ADAMTS13 activity leads to accumulation of clumps of ultra-large-molecular-weight vWF multimers, which bind to masses of platelets leading to microvascular occlusion and thrombocytopenia. If the peripheral blood smear supports the diagnosis of TTP, testing for ADAMTS13 activity is important to confirm the diagnosis and establish the autoimmune cause. However, the turn-around time for this test result is long, and therapy should not be delayed while awaiting results. This patient's clinical history, laboratory findings, and schistocytes on the peripheral blood smear are sufficient to initiate life-saving treatment.
Coagulation studies are almost always normal in patients with TTP. Tissue ischemia may result in laboratory findings consistent with disseminated intravascular coagulation, but neither normal nor abnormal coagulation studies affect the decision to initiate early therapy.
In a patient with thrombocytopenia, MAHA, and bloody diarrhea, stool cultures and toxin testing for Shiga toxin or Shiga toxin–producing organisms are indicated to differentiate TTP from hemolytic uremic syndrome. Because this patient does not have diarrhea, stool studies are not indicated, and results do not dictate when to initiate therapy.

**Bibliography**

George JN, Nester CM. Syndromes of thrombotic microangiopathy. N Engl J Med. 2014;371:654-66. PMID: 25119611 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1312353

This content was last updated in August 2018.