
### Correct Answer: D) Lipid profile and fasting blood glucose 

**Educational Objective:** Screen for hyperlipidemia and diabetes in adult survivors of pediatric leukemia.

#### **Key Point:** Survivors of acute lymphoblastic leukemia are at increased risk for the metabolic syndrome, including high BMI, truncal obesity, dyslipidemia, insulin resistance, and hypertension.

A lipid profile and fasting blood glucose should be performed. Adult survivors of childhood leukemia (primarily acute lymphoblastic leukemia [ALL]) have health risks largely secondary to the cancer therapy they received. Requesting a treatment summary or referral to a survivor clinic at a comprehensive cancer center is the first step in providing care. Increased risks of cardiovascular disease, the metabolic syndrome, and secondary cancer are the most relevant concerns. Compared with control populations, survivors of ALL are more likely to have features of the metabolic syndrome, including high BMI, truncal obesity, dyslipidemia, insulin resistance, and hypertension. Screening for lipid profile, diabetes, and hypertension is recommended by multiple guidelines for adult survivors of childhood ALL.
Survivors of ALL in continuous remission for more than 20 years have virtually no risk for ALL recurrence, although they are at risk for therapy-associated myelodysplastic syndrome or acute myeloid leukemia up to 15 years after treatment. With normal complete blood count findings, surveillance bone marrow examinations and whole genome sequencing are not indicated.
Leukemia therapy in childhood does not typically compromise ovarian function, and the patient's regular periods attest to the presence of normal ovarian function; obtaining estrogen and progesterone levels is not necessary.
Anthracyclines, such as doxorubicin, are the most common cause of dose-dependent chemotherapy–induced cardiomyocyte damage, leading to late and irreversible chronic heart failure. Exposure to anthracycline chemotherapy during childhood can cause heart failure in adulthood. However, echocardiography, not an exercise stress test, is the appropriate test to evaluate for abnormal myocardial function that may be asymptomatic. Echocardiography before pregnancy may be particularly important in women previously treated with anthracyclines because they are at risk for further deterioration of myocardial function during pregnancy.

**Bibliography**

Diller L. Clinical practice. Adult primary care after childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. N Engl J Med. 2011;365:1417-24. PMID: 21995389 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp1103645

This content was last updated in August 2018.