
### Correct Answer: C) Transfusion-associated circulatory overload 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose transfusion-associated circulatory overload.

#### **Key Point:** Signs of transfusion-associated circulatory overload include respiratory distress within 6 hours of transfusion, positive fluid balance, elevated central venous pressure, elevated B-type natriuretic peptide, and radiographic findings of pulmonary edema.

The most likely diagnosis is transfusion-associated circulatory overload, which is an underrecognized and underreported transfusion reaction affecting 1% to 8% of transfusion recipients. Risk factors include older age, pre-existing cardiac or kidney disease, receipt of multiple blood components, and rapid administration rate. The definition includes respiratory distress within 6 hours of transfusion, positive fluid balance, elevated central venous pressure, elevated B-type natriuretic peptide, and radiographic findings of pulmonary edema. Management consists of transfusion discontinuation, diuretic therapy, and supportive care. Prevention includes a slower infusion rate (1 mL/kg/hour) and diuretic therapy between transfusions to maintain euvolemia for those at risk.
Intravascular acute hemolytic transfusion reactions are characterized by the immediate destruction of donor erythrocytes by recipient antibodies. Signs and symptoms include fever, chills, dyspnea, red urine, flank pain, kidney injury, disseminated intravascular coagulation, and hypotension or shock; they do not include circulatory overload as seen in this patient.
Anaphylaxis is associated with respiratory distress. Manifestations include the sudden onset of respiratory distress, bronchospasm, angioedema, urticaria, nausea and vomiting, abdominal pain, tachycardia, and hypotension. It is not associated with pulmonary edema.
Transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI) is the leading cause of transfusion-related mortality. It is characterized by the development of acute lung injury within 6 hours of transfusion of erythrocytes, platelets, or fresh frozen plasma. TRALI is mediated by initial priming of neutrophils in the recipient's lung parenchyma followed by their activation by anti-HLA and antineutrophil antibodies present in donor plasma. Signs and symptoms escalate quickly and include dyspnea, hypoxia, fever, chills, and hypotension. The chest radiograph shows diffuse bilateral pulmonary infiltrates. The presence of circulatory overload is not consistent with TRALI. Management of TRALI is supportive.

**Bibliography**

Delaney M, Wendel S, Bercovitz RS, Cid J, Cohn C, Dunbar NM, et al; Biomedical Excellence for Safer Transfusion (BEST) Collaborative. Transfusion reactions: prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. Lancet. 2016;388:2825-2836. PMID: 27083327 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(15)01313-6

This content was last updated in August 2018.