
### Correct Answer: B) Exchange transfusion 

**Educational Objective:** Treat acute chest syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with sickle cell disease and acute chest syndrome with respiratory distress requiring mechanical ventilation should receive emergent exchange transfusion.

The most appropriate management is to perform immediate exchange transfusion. The patient has acute chest syndrome (ACS), defined clinically by fever, respiratory findings that include tachypnea and hypoxia, and evolving infiltrates on chest radiograph. ACS is one of the most common complications of sickle cell disease and is the most common cause of death. ACS may occur secondary to infection, fat or bone marrow embolism, in situ thrombosis, or any combination of these. ACS remains a clinical diagnosis. Patients should receive supplemental oxygen, incentive spirometry, analgesics if they have concomitant pain, and antibiotics to treat common causes of pneumonia. The severity of ACS determines the need for transfusion and type of transfusion (simple versus exchange transfusion). Mild episodes require no transfusion, moderate episodes are managed with simple or exchange transfusion, and severe episodes require exchange transfusion. The target hemoglobin level is 10 g/dL (100 g/L). Most experts agree that patients requiring mechanical ventilation or experiencing shock or other signs of multiorgan dysfunction should receive exchange transfusion.
Venous thromboembolism is not a common precipitant of ACS, and filling defects in the pulmonary vasculature are more likely to be caused by bone marrow or fat emboli than by venous thromboembolism. Without evidence for venous thrombosis of the lower extremity or other risk factors, CT pulmonary angiography should not be obtained, and therapeutic anticoagulation with heparin should not be started. Similarly, duplex Doppler imaging of the lower extremities should not be performed in the absence of clinical features such as unilateral leg swelling or edema and dilatation of the venous pattern that suggest acute venous thrombosis.
Acute infection is a common precipitant of ACS, and antibiotics to treat common causes of pneumonia should be routinely administered. Although a broad range of bacterial and viral agents have been linked to ACS, infection with fungal organisms is rare, and amphotericin is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Novelli EM, Gladwin MT. Crises in sickle cell disease. Chest. 2016;149:1082-93. PMID: 26836899 doi:10.1016/j.chest.2015.12.016

This content was last updated in August 2018.