
### Correct Answer: C) Idarucizumab 

**Educational Objective:** Reverse non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulation before emergent surgery.

#### **Key Point:** Patients taking dabigatran and requiring urgent surgery should be given idarucizumab, a monoclonal antibody fragment that binds free and thrombin-bound dabigatran and neutralizes its activity.

The most appropriate management of this patient is to administer idarucizumab. To proceed with urgent procedures or surgery in patients taking anticoagulants, the continued presence of the anticoagulant must be determined, and the anticoagulant effect must be reversed. Idarucizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody fragment that binds with high affinity to free and thrombin-bound dabigatran. The REVERSE AD study assessed the efficacy and safety of idarucizumab for patients with serious bleeding or requiring urgent procedures. Among the 36 patients in the study who underwent a procedure, normal hemostasis was reported in 92%. Based on this information, the 2019 Guidance from the Anticoagulation Forum suggests that, in dabigatran-treated patients who require an urgent procedure and in whom a reversal agent is warranted, idarucizumab be used as the first-line agent. The half-life of dabigatran in patients with normal kidney function is 12 to 17 hours. Although the patient's last dose of dabigatran was 16 hours ago, her impaired kidney function (serum creatinine level, 1.7 mg/dL [150 µmol/L]) will likely extend the half-life of the drug. In patients taking dabigatran, prolongation of the activated partial thromboplastin time is a good indication of bleeding risk with emergency surgery. Low levels of dabigatran can be detected by elevation of the dilute thrombin time.
Dabigatran is cleared through the kidney, and dialysis has been used in patients experiencing bleeding. However, treatment duration is unclear, and a rebound increase in dabigatran levels after discontinuation of dialysis has been noted; therefore, dialysis would not be the best, or even the most practical, management choice for this patient who requires emergency surgery.
Fresh frozen plasma should not be used in this patient. It would require a large volume to overcome inhibition of factor Xa, putting the patient at great risk for transfusion-associated circulatory overload (TACO). TACO is a common adverse event in which hypervolemia develops toward completion or within several hours of a blood product transfusion.
Although three- and four-factor prothrombin complex concentrates (PCCs) have been used in bleeding associated with non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants, the benefit of PCCs has not been confirmed in randomized trials and remains unclear. Because idarucizumab is available as a reversal agent for dabigatran, its use would be first line in this setting.

**Bibliography**

Cuker A, Burnett A, Triller D, Crowther M, Ansell J, Van Cott EM, et al. Reversal of direct oral anticoagulants: Guidance from the Anticoagulation Forum. Am J Hematol. 2019;94:697-709. Epub 2019 Apr 16. PMID: 30916798 [doi: 10.1002/ajh.25475]

This content was last updated in September 2019.