
### Correct Answer: B) Folate deficiency 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose folate deficiency.

#### **Key Point:** Folate deficiency should be suspected in patients with macrocytic anemia, malnutrition, and alcohol dependence.

The most likely diagnosis is folate deficiency. The patient has a macrocytic anemia associated with malnutrition and presumed decreased consumption of folate-rich foods and chronic alcoholism. A major source of folate is grains and green leafy vegetables, but folate absorption is decreased in the presence of chronic alcoholism. This patient is at risk for folate deficiency based on his homelessness, cachetic appearance suggesting malnutrition, and chronic alcoholism. Folate is not efficiently stored, and folate deficiency can develop within weeks of inadequate intake. Measuring the folate level is often of limited utility because of the ease and safety of initiating folate replacement. This patient should receive supplemental folate in addition to mental health and social service support.
Cobalamin deficiency will also produce a macrocytic anemia with hematologic features identical to that seen in folate deficiency. Unlike folate, cobalamin is effectively stored, and dietary inadequacy is not a common cause of deficiency. Alcohol dependence is not a risk factor for cobalamin deficiency. Although cobalamin deficiency is a conceivable cause of anemia in this patient, folate deficiency is much more likely.
Inflammatory anemia is caused by underlying proinflammatory states, such as infection, cancer, and autoimmune disease, and other conditions not traditionally characterized as proinflammatory, including chronic heart failure and diabetes mellitus. It is associated with a normocytic or microcytic anemia, not with macrocytosis or hypersegmented neutrophils as seen in this patient.
The hallmark of iron deficiency is a microcytic hypochromic anemia. Macrocytosis and hypersegmented neutrophils are not seen, making iron deficiency an unlikely diagnosis in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Green R, Dwyre DM. Evaluation of macrocytic anemias. Semin Hematol. 2015;52:279-86. PMID: 26404440 doi:10.1053/j.seminhematol.2015.06.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.