
### Correct Answer: D) Serum protein electrophoresis and free light chain analysis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose multiple myeloma.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with hypercalcemia, renal failure, anemia, and bone disease should have further testing with serum protein electrophoresis and serum free light chain assay to evaluate for multiple myeloma.

Serum protein electrophoresis (SPEP) and serum free light chain analysis are the most appropriate next diagnostic steps. He has the classic signs and symptoms of multiple myeloma (MM) (hyperCalcemia, Renal failure, Anemia, and Bone lesions [CRAB]; the bone lesions in this instance manifest by a compression fracture). In addition to these features, he has elevated total protein and low serum albumin levels, which indicate an elevated globulin level that can be seen with MM. SPEP and serum free light chain assay are the initial screening tests for MM because they identify most myelomas, which secrete a clonal immunoglobulin, a light chain, or both. Rarely, some patients with MM do not secrete a protein, and bone marrow biopsy is required for diagnosis.
Bone scans are not obtained in MM because myeloma lesions are usually lytic and lack the associated increase in osteoblast activity that leads to positive bone scan findings typical of other forms of metastatic cancer. Plain radiography of the bones (skeletal surveys) is the most common imaging used to assess lytic lesions, but PET scan and MRI are more sensitive than skeletal survey at identifying MM bone lesions.
Prostate cancer with bone metastasis can cause hypercalcemia, bone pain, anemia, and, possibly, kidney failure from obstruction or hypercalcemia. But it would not cause the elevated protein seen in this patient.
Although primary hyperparathyroidism can cause hypercalcemia and decreased bone density leading to increased risk of vertebral body fractures, this patient's anemia and protein elevation do not fit with that diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Rajkumar SV, Dimopoulos MA, Palumbo A, Blade J, Merlini G, Mateos MV, et al. International Myeloma Working Group updated criteria for the diagnosis of multiple myeloma. Lancet Oncol. 2014;15:e538-48. PMID: 25439696 doi:10.1016/S1470-2045(14)70442-5

This content was last updated in August 2018.