
### Correct Answer: B) Cobalamin and folate levels 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate megaloblastic anemia.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with pancytopenia, macrocytic erythrocytes, hypersegmented neutrophils, and findings consistent with intramedullary hemolysis should have vitamin B12 and folate levels assessed to determine the cause of megaloblastic anemia.

Serum cobalamin and folate levels should be obtained next. The clinical features, pancytopenia with macrocytic erythrocytes and hypersegmented neutrophils, suggest megaloblastic anemia, and serum levels of cobalamin and folate should be assessed. The patient described also has an elevated indirect bilirubin level and an elevated lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level, which indicate ineffective erythropoiesis and intramedullary hemolysis seen in megaloblastic anemia. This constellation of findings is consistent with cobalamin deficiency, which often occurs simultaneously with other autoimmune conditions, such as Hashimoto thyroiditis. Similar hematologic findings are seen in folate deficiency, which would be more likely in patients with poor nutrition or alcohol dependence. A reasonable first step in evaluating suspected vitamin B12 deficiency is serum cobalamin measurement, with levels greater than 300 pg/mL (221 pmol/L) making deficiency unlikely and levels less than 200 pg/mL (148 pmol/L) strongly suggesting deficiency. If diagnostic uncertainty exists, methylmalonic acid and homocysteine measurement may be helpful. Both are elevated in 98% of patients with cobalamin deficiency, even in patients who have neurologic symptoms without anemia. Methylmalonic acid and total homocysteine levels are helpful in differentiating cobalamin deficiency (both levels are elevated) from folate deficiency (elevated homocysteine level but normal methylmalonic acid level).
Bone marrow biopsy is seldom indicated to diagnose megaloblastic anemia. Although a marrow sample may be useful to diagnose myelodysplasia, which can also present as a macrocytic anemia, a bone marrow biopsy would not be the appropriate next test for this patient without first excluding vitamin B12 and folate deficiency.
Flow cytometry would not be helpful in the absence of abnormal leukocytes or other findings that raise suspicion for myelodysplasia or leukemia (for example, immature cells, leukopenia, or leukocytosis).
Patients with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency do not have a macrocytic anemia or hypersegmented neutrophils. During episodes of hemolysis, peripheral blood smears show typical bite cells and Heinz bodies, which are not present in this patient's peripheral smear. Additionally, G6PD deficiency is an X-linked condition uncommon in women. Furthermore, patients with suspected G6PD deficiency should not have G6PD levels measured during an acute hemolytic event because G6PD levels are relatively preserved in the nonhemolyzed cells remaining in circulation, so false-negative results are common.

**Bibliography**

Stabler SP. Clinical practice. Vitamin B12 deficiency. N Engl J Med. 2013;368:149-60. PMID: 23301732 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp1113996

This content was last updated in August 2018.