
### Correct Answer: A) Acquired von Willebrand disease 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose acquired von Willebrand disease.

#### **Key Point:** High sheer force seen in some patients with prosthetic heart valves, abnormal native valves, and left ventricular assist device placement may cause an acquired von Willebrand disease with clinical bleeding.

Acquired von Willebrand disease (vWD) should be suspected in a patient who has previously been well without bleeding symptoms but now has bleeding manifestations and laboratory features consistent with vWD. Acquired vWD typically occurs in patients who develop an autoantibody to von Willebrand factor, analogous to that seen with acquired factor VIII deficiency, and in conditions of high sheer pressure within the vasculature, traditionally in patients with a prosthetic heart valve that has become dislodged but also in patients with prosthetic heart valves that appear normal in function and in those with valvular heart disease who have not had surgery. More recently, this disorder has been linked to left ventricular assist devices (LVADs). This patient has the expected INR elevation associated with therapeutic-dose warfarin routinely prescribed after LVAD implantation. But the relatively abrupt onset of bleeding manifestations is associated with prolongation of the Platelet Function Analyzer-100 test, suggesting a new qualitative platelet defect. Acquired vWD can be confirmed by low levels of von Willebrand antigen or ristocetin cofactor activity.
The liver is responsible for synthesizing all clotting factors as well as anticoagulant and antifibrinolytic factors. Because of this fact, patients with severe liver disease will have significantly prolonged prothrombin and activated partial thromboplastin times (PT and aPTT) resulting from decreased levels of coagulation factors. This patient only has slightly prolonged aPTT and PT and no history or evidence of severe liver disease, making the coagulopathy of liver disease unlikely.
Acquired fibrinogen abnormalities are relatively common, whereas inherited fibrinogen disorders are rare. The most common causes include liver disease (dysfibrinogenemia), disseminated intravascular coagulation (hypofibrinogenemia), and certain medications. This patient has no evidence of liver disease, and his fibrinogen level is normal, which together exclude disseminated intravascular coagulation.
Immune thrombocytopenic purpura is associated with a low platelet count and not with a qualitative platelet abnormality.

**Bibliography**

Nascimbene A, Neelamegham S, Frazier OH, Moake JL, Dong JF. Acquired von Willebrand syndrome associated with left ventricular assist device. Blood. 2016;127:3133-41. PMID: 27143258 doi:10.1182/blood-2015-10-636480

This content was last updated in August 2018.