
### Correct Answer: A) Evaluation for helminth infection 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate eosinophilia.

#### **Key Point:** Hypereosinophilic syndrome is characterized by moderate eosinophilia and end-organ damage commonly involving the skin, lungs, gastrointestinal tract, and heart; secondary causes of eosinophilia should be excluded.

This patient should be evaluated for hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES), beginning with an evaluation for helminth infection. He has sustained moderate eosinophilia and end-organ damage (restrictive cardiomyopathy), which are characteristic of HES. Organ involvement is more common when the peripheral eosinophil count is greater than 1500/µL (1.5 × 109/L) as in this patient. The numerous neoplastic and nonneoplastic causes of eosinophilia can be recalled using the mnemonic CHINA (Collagen vascular disease, Helminthic infection, Idiopathic, Neoplasia, Allergy/Atopy/Asthma). Helminth infection is a common cause of eosinophilia and should be evaluated and ruled out in all patients. Eosinophilia of any cause can be associated with end-organ damage, and evaluation for organ involvement is indicated. Organs commonly involved are the skin (eczema, erythroderma, urticaria, and angioedema), lungs (parenchymal infiltrates, pleural effusion, lymphadenopathy, and pulmonary emboli), gastrointestinal tract (eosinophilic gastritis, enteritis, colitis, chronic active hepatitis, focal hepatic lesions, eosinophilic cholangitis, Budd-Chiari syndrome), and heart (mitral or tricuspid regurgitation, cardiomegaly, restrictive cardiomyopathy).
Fat pad biopsy is performed during evaluation for systemic amyloidosis. Amyloidosis involving the heart can cause restrictive heart disease. However, in this patient with sustained elevation of the eosinophil count, HES is more likely the underlying condition.
Prednisone initiation in clinically stable patients with HES without evaluation for the underlying cause of the illness is not recommended because patients with infectious causes of eosinophilia (such as Strongyloides) can experience significant symptom flare. In unstable patients, empiric treatment with glucocorticoids must be initiated emergently with ivermectin if risk factors for exposure to strongyloides are present. Patients with negative infectious evaluations should be evaluated for allergic, immunologic, and neoplastic causes of hypereosinophilia, including myeloproliferative disorders, lymphomas, and solid tumors.
Although repeat testing of the eosinophil count is recommended in all patients, at least 1 month apart to confirm sustained elevation, this patient already has two measurements showing sustained hypereosinophilia as well as symptoms of cardiac involvement. Therefore, repeat testing of the eosinophil count in 3 months is not appropriate.

**Bibliography**

Klion AD. How I treat hypereosinophilic syndromes. Blood. 2015;126:1069-77. PMID: 25964669 doi:10.1182/blood-2014-11-551614

This content was last updated in August 2018.