
### Correct Answer: B) Echocardiography 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose pulmonary hypertension related to sickle cell disease.

#### **Key Point:** Pulmonary hypertension, a known complication in sickle cell disease, may worsen during pregnancy and should be initially evaluated by echocardiography.

Echocardiography is the most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next. The patient's symptoms, cardiac examination, and electrocardiography suggest pulmonary hypertension (PH). PH is associated with significant morbidity and a 30% to 50% mortality rate. Prevalence is approximately 10% in nonpregnant patients but increases in women with sickle cell disease (SCD) who become pregnant. Risk factors for development of PH include severity of anemia, iron overload from transfusions, and history of thromboembolic disease. Although cardiac ultrasonography may underestimate the severity of PH, it remains a useful initial noninvasive screening test even if right heart catheterization is eventually required to more definitively evaluate the hemodynamics.
Cardiac MRI would be useful in evaluating infiltrative cardiomyopathy from iron overload or amyloidosis. Secondary iron overload is seen in SCD but invariably in the setting of multiple blood transfusions over years of time, a history that is lacking in this patient.
Although chest pain could be associated with coronary artery disease and angina, patients with SCD are not especially predisposed to this complication. Exercise stress testing would be contraindicated in those with suspected severe PH and a recent episode of exertion-triggered syncope.
Although pregnancy is a risk factor for dissecting thoracic aortic aneurysm, it is somewhat debated whether additional conditions, such as sustained hypertension, Marfan syndrome, or other connective tissue disorders, are required. This patient's clinical features do not warrant aortography before additional tests are performed, including cardiac ultrasonography.

**Bibliography**

Gordeuk VR, Castro OL, Machado RF. Pathophysiology and treatment of pulmonary hypertension in sickle cell disease. Blood. 2016;127:820-8. PMID: 26758918 doi:10.1182/blood-2015-08-618561

This content was last updated in August 2018.