
### Correct Answer: D) Testosterone 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose testosterone supplementation as a secondary cause for polycythemia.

#### **Key Point:** Polycythemia is a common adverse effect of testosterone injections, and testosterone supplementation should be interrupted if the hematocrit level exceeds 54%.

This patient's polycythemia is likely caused by testosterone injections. Polycythemia is a common adverse effect of testosterone (and anabolic steroid) supplementation, and evaluating the hematocrit level at initiation, 3 to 6 months after testosterone initiation, and annually thereafter is recommended by Endocrine Society guidelines. Guidelines also recommend interrupting the testosterone supplementation if the hematocrit value is greater than 54%. Secondary polycythemia can cause symptoms, such as headaches and elevated blood pressure, and increase the risk of thromboembolism. The risk of venous thromboembolic disease is directly related to hematocrit level. In this patient, stopping the testosterone supplementation until his polycythemia improves and restarting at a lower dose is recommended. In patients with severe symptoms, phlebotomy can also be considered. Testosterone supplementation can also exacerbate undiagnosed sleep apnea, and evaluation for an underlying sleep disorder should be performed in these patients with polycythemia.
Anemia rather than erythrocytosis may be seen in patients with both hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism, and levothyroxine, even if given at inappropriately high or low doses, does not cause polycythemia.
Lisinopril does not cause polycythemia. ACE inhibitors, such as lisinopril, are actually used to treat secondary polycythemia after kidney transplantation. Posttransplant erythrocytosis occurs in up to 15% of patients after kidney transplantation. ACE inhibitors reduce erythrocytosis in 90% of patients in a dose-response manner. The mechanism is unknown, but apoptosis of the erythroid precursors has been suggested as well as renin-angiotensin system inhibition that may decrease erythropoietin production.
Polycythemia vera (PV) is a disorder of the myeloid and erythroid stem cells that causes erythropoietin-independent proliferation of erythrocytes and splenomegaly. PV should be considered in all patients with polycythemia; however, in this patient who is receiving testosterone supplementation, has an elevated erythropoietin level, and does not have splenomegaly, PV is unlikely. If PV is suspected, mutational analysis for JAK2 V617F should be performed.

**Bibliography**

Bhasin S, Cunningham GR, Hayes FJ, Matsumoto AM, Snyder PJ, Swerdloff RS, et al; Task Force, Endocrine Society. Testosterone therapy in men with androgen deficiency syndromes: an Endocrine Society clinical practice guideline. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2010;95:2536-59. PMID: 20525905 doi:10.1210/jc.2009-2354

This content was last updated in August 2018.