
### Correct Answer: A) Discontinue LMWH and begin argatroban 

**Educational Objective:** Treat heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with a high probability of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia should have heparin stopped, and therapy with an immediately effective anticoagulant, such as argatroban, should be initiated.

The most appropriate management is to discontinue heparin and initiate argatroban. This patient has heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT). He was in the hospital 1 month ago for chronic heart failure and most likely received subcutaneous heparin at that time, so he has a history of heparin exposure. A scoring system for determining the pretest probability of a patient having HIT has been developed (4T score). High probability scores are associated with a 50% decrease in platelet count, onset between days 5 and 10 of heparin exposure, new thrombosis, and no other cause of thrombocytopenia. This patient's platelet count decreased more than 50% from admission 5 days ago, he has a new thrombotic event, and he has no other likely explanation for the thrombocytopenia. HIT can be a life-threatening condition if not addressed rapidly. Heparin must be discontinued and an alternate, immediately effective anticoagulant, such as argatroban, must be initiated. A strongly positive immunoassay for HIT antibody will help confirm the diagnosis. The risk of thrombosis persists after resolution of the thrombocytopenia, so treatment with warfarin should begin when the platelet count normalizes; most experts recommend 3 to 6 months of therapy.
Patients with HIT must have all heparin products stopped. Replacing low-molecular-weight heparin with unfractionated heparin does not mitigate the risk of additional thrombosis. Most experts advise delaying warfarin therapy until the platelet count has normalized.
Insertion of an inferior vena cava (IVC) filter insertion may be appropriate for select patients with acute VTE and a contraindication to anticoagulation. Although this patient has a contraindication to heparin, he can be safely treated with alternative anticoagulants, including argatroban.

**Bibliography**

Greinacher A. Clinical practice. Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. N Engl J Med. 2015;373:252-61. PMID: 26176382 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp1411910

This content was last updated in March 2021.