
### Correct Answer: B) Hemolytic uremic syndrome 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose hemolytic uremic syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Classic hemolytic uremic syndrome is a diarrhea-associated syndrome of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and acute kidney injury caused by Shiga toxin–producing Escherichia coli and, less commonly, Shigella dysenteriae.

This patient most likely has hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS). HUS is a diarrhea-associated syndrome of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and acute kidney injury caused by Shiga toxin–producing Escherichia coli, typically with serotypes O157:H7, O104:H4, and, less commonly, Shigella dysenteriae. Shiga toxin binds to endothelial cells, triggering thrombosis and resulting in a thrombotic microangiopathy. It also binds to renal mesangial cells, podocytes, and renal tubular cells, causing direct damage. These actions lead to acute kidney injury. Although it is more commonly seen in children, it can also present in adults. Supportive care is a cornerstone of treatment, and fluid management with volume expansion is critical despite any existing oliguria.
Atypical HUS is a congenital syndrome caused by overwhelming complement activation that is not preceded by a diarrheal illness as typical HUS is. The distinction between thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and typical and atypical HUS is difficult but important to make because atypical HUS is effectively treated by infusions of eculizumab, a monoclonal antibody directed against the terminal components of the complement cascade.
The combination of an immune-mediated hemolytic anemia, usually warm antibody, IgG mediated, and immune thrombocytopenic purpura is known as Evans syndrome. Although this patient has evidence of a hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia, the direct antiglobulin test is negative, and schistocytes, reflecting microangiopathic hemolysis, were noted on the peripheral blood smear. Spherocytes would be expected in IgG-mediated autoimmune hemolytic anemia.
Patients with rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (RPGN) typically present with the nephritic syndrome and may sometimes be in advanced kidney failure at the time of presentation. Other symptoms and clinical findings related to an underlying cause may also be present, such as systemic signs of vasculitis (arthritis, epistaxis, hemoptysis) or lung hemorrhage (Goodpasture syndrome). The absence of active urinary sediment and the presence of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia make RPGN an unlikely diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Mele C, Remuzzi G, Noris M. Hemolytic uremic syndrome. Semin Immunopathol. 2014;36:399-420. PMID: 24526222 doi:10.1007/s00281-014-0416-x

This content was last updated in August 2018.