
### Correct Answer: D) Valve hemolysis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose valve hemolysis.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with artificial valves or those with left ventricular assist devices can develop anemia resulting from erythrocyte fragmentation known as macroangiopathic hemolysis.

This patient most likely has valve hemolysis. She has a persistent mild anemia with laboratory features consistent with intravascular hemolysis (undetectable haptoglobin levels and elevated lactate dehydrogenase levels). The peripheral blood smear shows rare schistocytes, which are fragmented erythrocytes consistent with micro- or macroangiopathic hemolysis. Patients with artificial valves or those with left ventricular assist devices can develop anemia resulting from erythrocyte fragmentation known as macroangiopathic hemolysis. A normal echocardiographic examination does not exclude mild valve hemolysis; in fact, the peripheral blood smear is more sensitive than echocardiography for detecting valve dysfunction. In addition to the peripheral blood smear, the most sensitive laboratory test is the serum haptoglobin level, but this test lacks specificity. Although the peripheral blood smear is a reliable indicator of the integrity of valve function, it is a less reliable indicator of the degree of hemodynamically significant perivalvular regurgitation. As such, the presence of mild hemolysis may not necessitate valve replacement, and the timing of valve replacement would become a clinical decision based on patient and valve characteristics, pattern and pace of hemolysis, and changes in echocardiographic findings over time.
This patient is taking no medications associated with drug-induced hemolytic anemia (for example, cephalosporins, penicillins, NSAIDs, quinidine, isoniazid). In addition, schistocytes are not present in drug-induced hemolysis, making this a very unlikely diagnosis.
The peripheral blood smear does not show features, such as microcytosis or anisopoikilocytosis, found in iron deficiency from blood loss, making gastrointestinal bleeding unlikely. However, patients with significant intravascular hemolysis and hemoglobinuria may excrete enough iron in the urine to become iron deficient. This patient does not have such severe hemolysis nor does she have any hematologic features of iron deficiency.
This patient lacks the peripheral blood smear findings associated with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, including bite cells and Heinz bodies. Similarly, none of the medications prescribed (for example, sulfonamides, some antimalarials, rasburicase) are associated with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, an X-linked condition that is uncommon in women.

**Bibliography**

Beris P, Picard V. Non-immune hemolysis: diagnostic considerations. Semin Hematol. 2015;52:287-303. PMID: 26404441 doi:10.1053/j.seminhematol. 2015.07.005

This content was last updated in August 2018.