
### Correct Answer: A) Completion of 3-month course of anticoagulation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat provoked deep venous thrombosis.

#### **Key Point:** In provoked deep venous thrombosis with reversible risk factors, 3 to 6 months of anticoagulation is recommended.

The most appropriate management is to continue anticoagulation for a 3-month course. Decisions on anticoagulation therapy duration depend on the recurrent venous thromboembolism (VTE) risk without anticoagulation, the bleeding risk with anticoagulants, and the patient's preference. In patients with proximal leg deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism, the cumulative VTE recurrence risk after discontinuation of anticoagulation is (1) 1% after 1 year and 3% after 5 years for VTE provoked by major surgery; (2) 5% after 1 year and 15% after 5 years for VTE provoked by a nonsurgical reversible risk factor; and (3) 10% after 1 year and 30% after 5 years for unprovoked VTE. This patient experienced a provoked DVT after major surgery. In provoked thrombosis with reversible risk factors, guidelines recommend 3 to 6 months of anticoagulation.
Because of the high risk of recurrence with discontinuation of anticoagulant therapy, an unprovoked VTE is a consideration for extended anticoagulant therapy. When extended (long-term) anticoagulation therapy is chosen, the risks, benefits, and burden of long-term therapy must be re-evaluated periodically. This patient's DVT was provoked by surgery; therefore, extended anticoagulation is not a reasonable option.
Identifying an inherited thrombophilia often does not change treatment decisions in a patient with VTE. Recent guidelines recommend against routine thrombophilia testing because identification of inherited abnormalities does not alter the duration of recommended anticoagulation or reliably predict risk of VTE recurrence. Finally, the American Society of Hematology's Choosing Wisely Campaign specifically recommends against thrombophilia testing in adults with VTE that occurs in the setting of a major transient risk factor, such as surgery, prolonged immobility, or trauma.
In patients with unprovoked DVT, a common strategy has been to measure D-dimer levels 2 weeks after discontinuation of a 3-month course of anticoagulant therapy. Patients with elevated D-dimer levels were considered for further anticoagulation. However, although elevated levels of D-dimer can identify persons at risk, this test has low specificity, and a normal D-dimer level cannot safely rule out the possibility of future recurrence, thus limiting the utility of this testing strategy. Furthermore, this patient had a provoked DVT, which is another reason not to perform follow-up D-dimer testing.

**Bibliography**

Ortel TL, Neumann I, Ageno W, et al. American Society of Hematology 2020 guidelines for management of venous thromboembolism: treatment of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. Blood Adv. 2020 Oct 13;4(19):4693-4738. PMID: 33007077 doi: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2020001830

This content was last updated in March 2021.