
### Correct Answer: D) Pseudothrombocytopenia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose pseudothrombocytopenia.

#### **Key Point:** Evaluation of the peripheral blood smear to assess platelet clumping should be done in patients with isolated thrombocytopenia; if clumping is detected, the platelet count should be repeated in a heparinized blood specimen.

The most likely diagnosis in this patient is pseudothrombocytopenia. A review of the peripheral blood smear is the first step in evaluating a patient with thrombocytopenia. Platelet clumping, or pseudothrombocytopenia, is caused by antibodies directed against the anticoagulant ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid and is not associated with any medical problem. Additionally, in the absence of platelet clumping, review of the peripheral blood smear might show schistocytes or abnormal leukocytes, suggesting possible diagnoses accounting for true thrombocytopenia. An accurate platelet count would be obtained by drawing a blood sample in a heparinized tube.
Patients with essential thrombocythemia may have large platelets and platelet clumping, but the platelet count would be elevated, not normal as was found with the heparinized blood specimen.
Immune thrombocytopenic purpura is an autoimmune disorder that results in a low platelet count. The peripheral smear typically shows scant large platelets that do not form clumps, and the platelet count would be consistently low, even when drawn in a heparinized tube.
The diagnosis of myelodysplastic syndrome should be suspected in patients with macrocytic anemia or pancytopenia in whom vitamin B12 and folate deficiency have been excluded. Abnormal erythrocyte forms with basophilic stippling or Howell-Jolly bodies and dysplastic neutrophils with decreased nuclear segmentation and granulation may be present. Increased myeloblasts can be seen in more advanced disease. This patient's microcytic anemia, thrombocytopenia with platelet clumping, and correction of the thrombocytopenia by using a heparinized tube is not consistent with the diagnosis of myelodysplastic syndrome.

**Bibliography**

Lippi G, Plebani M. EDTA-dependent pseudothrombocytopenia: further insights and recommendations for prevention of a clinically threatening artifact [Editorial]. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2012;50:1281-5. PMID: 22868791 doi:10.1515/cclm-2012-0081

This content was last updated in August 2018.