
### Correct Answer: C) Rituximab 

**Educational Objective:** Treat cold agglutinin disease.

#### **Key Point:** Cold avoidance and rituximab are effective treatments for cold agglutinin disease; glucocorticoids, splenectomy, and intravenous immune globulin are not helpful.

The most appropriate treatment for this patient is rituximab. She has profound anemia and evidence of intravascular (decreased haptoglobin, hemoglobinuria, elevated lactate dehydrogenase) and extravascular (elevated indirect hyperbilirubinemia level) hemolysis. The positive direct antiglobulin test showing C3 on erythrocytes with agglutinated erythrocytes on the peripheral blood smear suggests cold agglutinin autoimmune hemolytic anemia. The improbably high mean corpuscular volume (MCV) calculated by the Coulter counter likely reflects measurement of agglutinated cells, although the reticulocytosis will also elevate the MCV. This disease can be primary, with no other underlying disorders, but may be associated with lymphoproliferative disorders, such as Waldenström macroglobulinemia, other B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas, and IgM monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance. Cold agglutinin disease may also be precipitated by infections, typically Mycoplasma pneumoniae or Epstein-Barr virus. In cold agglutinin disease, IgM antibodies are directed against erythrocyte antigens, resulting in complement fixation and intravascular hemolysis as well as clearance of complement-coated erythrocytes by Kupffer cells in the liver. Rituximab, a monoclonal antibody to the B-cell antigen CD20, has shown efficacy in case series of patients with cold agglutinin disease. Additionally, all patients with cold agglutinin disease should be kept warm, and all infusions should be administered at body temperature.
Unlike in patients with warm antibodies, prednisone and intravenous immune globulin do not decrease the hemolytic process in patients with cold agglutinin disease.
Because cold agglutinin disease does not involve splenic clearance of erythrocytes, splenectomy is not effective at reducing this type of hemolysis compared with warm antibody-mediated hemolysis.

**Bibliography**

Barcellini W. Immune hemolysis: diagnosis and treatment recommendations. Semin Hematol. 2015;52:304-12. PMID: 26404442 doi:10.1053/j.seminhematol.2015.05.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.