
### Correct Answer: D) Observation 

**Educational Objective:** Manage hereditary spherocytosis during an acute aplastic crisis.

#### **Key Point:** Acute viral infections may trigger a transient aplastic crisis in patients with hereditary spherocytosis.

The most appropriate management for this patient is clinical observation. He has hereditary spherocytosis (HS) characterized by a mild lifelong anemia in association with symptomatic cholelithiasis at an early age. The presence of spherocytes is supported by an elevated mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration frequently seen in this disorder. HS is caused by mutations in several scaffolding proteins that make these cells less distensible and more susceptible to osmotic stress and hemolysis. Patients with this disorder may have mild anemia, an elevated reticulocyte response, and few or no symptoms. The development of pigmented gallstones resulting from excess bilirubin production may result in symptomatic cholelithiasis. Symptoms of anemia may arise when the bone marrow is suppressed, most commonly by an acute infection. In this situation, the reticulocyte count falls, and the patient rapidly develops symptomatic anemia. Parvovirus is most classically linked with bone marrow suppression, but many other viral and infectious agents can have a similar effect. The bone marrow suppression following acute infections is self-limited, but some patients may become symptomatic to the point of requiring blood transfusion.
A subset of patients with HS has chronic hemolytic anemia that is much more severe. These patients will benefit from splenectomy. The spleen is the major site of erythrocyte destruction; after splenectomy, the membrane defect remains unchanged, but erythrocyte survival will be significantly prolonged. Splenectomy is not needed in managing an acute, self-limited aplastic crisis.
Prednisone would be indicated to treat warm antibody autoimmune hemolytic anemia (WAIHA). Spherocytes are also seen in patients with WAIHA, but the direct antiglobulin test result would be positive. WAIHA would not explain the lifelong anemia in this patient.
Erythropoietin deficiency plays no role in the pathogenesis of HS. Endogenous erythropoietin levels are apt to be markedly elevated in this patient, and no evidence indicates that therapy with exogenous erythropoiesis-stimulating agents has any beneficial role.

**Bibliography**

Perrotta S, Gallagher PG, Mohandas N. Hereditary spherocytosis. Lancet. 2008;372:1411-26. PMID: 18940465 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61588-3

This content was last updated in August 2018.