
### Correct Answer: A) Activated factor VII 

**Educational Objective:** Treat acquired factor VIII deficiency.

#### **Key Point:** A prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time that does not fully correct with a mixing study suggests the presence of a factor inhibitor and the diagnosis of acquired hemophilia A; treatment is with activated factor VII, activated prothrombin complex concentrate, or recombinant porcine factor VIII.

The most appropriate management of this patient is to administer activated factor VII. She has an acquired hemophilia A with an autoantibody against factor VIII. An association of this disorder with hematologic malignancies such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia has been recognized. The prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) did not fully correct with mixing, suggesting the presence of an inhibitor. Acquired hemophilia typically presents in adults older than 60 years, and women are affected more often than men. Patients present with ecchymoses and subcutaneous or muscle bleeding. Treatment with factor VIII infusion is not successful because the inhibitor will interfere with factor efficacy, so an activated factor product is required. Recombinant activated factor VII promotes clotting by bypassing several coagulation steps; activated prothrombin complex concentrates and recombinant porcine factor VIII are also appropriate treatment options.
Bleeding associated with a prolonged aPTT should raise concern for disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) with hypofibrinogenemia requiring cryoprecipitate; however, severe factor VIII deficiency (1%) is unusual in DIC, and the normal prothrombin time and platelet count also argue against that diagnosis. Finally, the patient has none of the common triggers of DIC, such as sepsis, metastatic cancer, or systemic immune response syndrome.
Desmopressin is used in the treatment of von Willebrand disease (vWD) and causes preformed stores of von Willebrand factor and factor VIII to be released from endothelial cells. However, in patients with vWD, the aPTT would correct in a mixing study. This patient's aPTT did not correct, making the diagnosis of vWD unlikely.
Fresh frozen plasma is used to treat patients with massive bleeding and dilutional coagulopathy and has been used in patients with warfarin toxicity. It would be ineffective in treating hemophilia with acquired factor VIII inhibitor because the inhibitor will interfere with factor efficacy.

**Bibliography**

Tiede A, Collins P, Knoebl P, et al. International recommendations on the diagnosis and treatment of acquired hemophilia A. Haematologica. 2020;105(7):1791-1801. PMID: 32381574 doi:10.3324/haematol.2019.230771

This content was last updated in March 2021.