
### Correct Answer: A) Administer vitamin K 

**Educational Objective:** Treat vitamin K deficiency.

#### **Key Point:** Vitamin K deficiency, which can be recognized by a normal activated partial thromboplastin time and an elevated prothrombin time, should be expected in patients who have poor oral intake and are taking prolonged courses of antibiotics.

Administering vitamin K is the most appropriate management at this time. This patient has developed vitamin K deficiency from poor oral intake and a prolonged course of antibiotics combined with diarrhea from concurrent Clostridium difficile infection. Although vitamin K is found in many foods, most vitamin K needed for coagulation is derived from saprophytic bacteria in the colon, and antibiotics destroy these bacteria. Diarrhea (from any cause) results in decreased absorption of vitamin K. Vitamin K is needed to activate certain factors (II, VII, IX, and X), and the prothrombin time (PT), which is most sensitive to a decrease in factor VII levels, will be elevated out of proportion to the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), which will be normal or only mildly elevated. Vitamin K deficiency can be managed with oral or parenteral vitamin K, and the coagulopathy will begin to correct within 1 day.
Although atorvastatin can cause an elevation in liver enzyme levels, this patient's coagulopathy is not a result of liver disease, because the factor V level is in the normal range. With the exception of factor VIII, all clotting factors are produced in the liver, and liver disease results in a decrease in all factors with corresponding abnormalities in aPTT and PT.
Discontinuing this patient's low-dose heparin is unnecessary because this heparin formulation will not prolong the PT.
Although fresh frozen plasma will correct the underlying vitamin K deficiency, it is not the safest or most cost-effective treatment option, and the duration of effect is limited by the short half-life of factor VII. Vitamin K is a safer, more cost-effective intervention and will last much longer.

**Bibliography**

Brenner B, Kuperman AA, Watzka M, Oldenburg J. Vitamin K-dependent coagulation factors deficiency. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2009;35:439-46. PMID: 19598072 doi:10.1055/s-0029-1225766

This content was last updated in August 2018.