
### Correct Answer: D) Temporarily stop rivaroxaban in 1 year and test 2 weeks later 

**Educational Objective:** Determine when a thrombophilia evaluation should be performed.

#### **Key Point:** With the exception of testing for genetic mutations, thrombophilia testing should not be performed in the acute setting or while receiving anticoagulant therapy and should be delayed at least 2 weeks after discontinuation of anticoagulant therapy to minimize diagnostic error.

The ideal testing strategy is to temporarily stop rivaroxaban in 1 year and test 2 weeks later. Long-term anticoagulation is indicated in the setting of idiopathic thrombosis. Because of the unprovoked nature of this patient's thrombotic event, his thrombotic risk remains high even after 3 months of anticoagulation. Therefore, it is safer to continue anticoagulation for 1 year before testing. Testing for inherited thrombophilia remains controversial. Guidelines and systematic reviews recommend against routine population screening or screening in most adults with idiopathic venous thromboembolism (VTE) and in asymptomatic family members of patients with VTE and known factor V Leiden or prothrombin G20210A gene mutation. Most experts agree that thrombophilia evaluation can be considered in select populations, such as patients with thromboses at unusual sites or recurrent idiopathic thrombosis, patients younger than 45 years with unprovoked thrombosis, patients with VTE and a clear family history of thrombosis in one or more first-degree relatives, and patients with warfarin-induced skin necrosis. After an informed discussion of the risks and benefits of testing, patients who desire evaluation should receive genetic counseling before testing. Testing typically focuses on factor V Leiden mutation; prothrombin G20210A mutation; protein C, protein S, and antithrombin deficiencies; and antiphospholipid antibody syndrome. However, the thrombophilia evaluation should not be performed during an acute episode of thrombosis. Additionally, although genetic tests such as factor V Leiden and prothrombin gene mutation can be performed at any time, the other assays can be variably affected by the presence of an acute thrombosis, heparin, and other anticoagulants. For example, during the acute phase of thrombosis, plasma levels of antithrombin and occasionally proteins C and S may transiently decrease, and fibrinogen and factor VIII levels may increase. Depending on the assay used, dabigatran therapy may result in increased measurements of antithrombin and protein S and C levels, whereas the factor Xa inhibitors (for example, rivaroxaban and apixaban) may result only in increased measurements of antithrombin. Warfarin therapy reduces vitamin K–dependent factors, including proteins C and S, which do not resolve for 4 to 6 weeks after discontinuation. Most experts agree that with the exception of testing for genetic mutations, testing should not be done in the acute setting or while receiving anticoagulant therapy and should be delayed at least 2 weeks after discontinuation of anticoagulant therapy to minimize diagnostic error.

**Bibliography**

Meyer MR, Witt DM, Delate T, Johnson SG, Fang M, Go A, et al. Thrombophilia testing patterns amongst patients with acute venous thromboembolism. Thromb Res. 2015;136:1160-4. PMID: 26477821 doi:10.1016/j.thromres. 2015.10.019

This content was last updated in August 2018.