
### Correct Answer: D) JAK2 V617F mutation 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose a myeloproliferative neoplasm in a patient with hepatic vein thrombosis.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with abdominal thrombosis, splenomegaly, and portal hypertension should be evaluated for the presence of a myeloproliferative neoplasm, specifically the JAK2 V617F gene mutation, even in the absence of erythrocytosis or thrombocytosis.

This patient should be evaluated for the JAK2 V617F gene mutation. This mutation is present in more than 95% of patients with polycythemia rubra vera and 50% of patients with essential thrombocytosis, even without the presence of erythrocytosis or thrombocytosis. Thromboses, including abdominal vein thromboses, are a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs). Approximately 50% of cases of Budd-Chiari syndrome and 25% of cases of portal vein thrombosis are the result of an MPN, and JAK2 V617F gene mutations should be evaluated even in the absence of erythrocytosis or thrombocytosis. Portal hypertension and splenomegaly are often found, which may account for the relatively normal blood counts seen in some patients.
Although hepatocellular carcinoma, which could possibly be diagnosed by α-fetoprotein, can be associated with the development of abdominal thrombosis, this diagnosis is unlikely in this patient, considering her viral studies are negative and she has no evidence of cirrhosis or malignancy on imaging.
Factor VIII testing is not considered a standard component of a thrombophilia evaluation because of its mixed results regarding long-term implications. It would be inappropriate to evaluate the patient's factor VIII level at this time.
Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria is also associated with abdominal vein thrombosis, but her normal haptoglobin level and absence of indirect hyperbilirubinemia indicate no evidence of hemolysis. Performing flow cytometry to evaluate for loss of CD 55/59 would not be appropriate.

**Bibliography**

Smalberg JH, Arends LR, Valla DC, Kiladjian JJ, Janssen HL, Leebeek FW. Myeloproliferative neoplasms in Budd-Chiari syndrome and portal vein thrombosis: a meta-analysis. Blood. 2012;120:4921-8. PMID: 23043069 doi:10.1182/blood-2011-09-376517

This content was last updated in August 2018.