
### Correct Answer: B) Drug-induced hemolysis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose drug-induced autoimmune hemolytic anemia.

#### **Key Point:** Many drugs are associated with drug-induced hemolytic anemia, and antibiotics are the most frequently encountered cause of this condition, with ceftriaxone being one of the most common causative agents.

This patient most likely has drug-induced hemolysis. She has an acute anemia in association with ceftriaxone treatment for Lyme-related meningoencephalitis. Acute anemia in hospitalized patients should raise the suspicion for blood loss (including from laboratory testing) or hemolysis. An elevated lactate dehydrogenase level along with the positive direct antiglobulin test (DAT) and spherocytes on the peripheral blood smear should further raise suspicion for hemolysis from an IgG autoantibody. Many drugs are associated with drug-induced hemolytic anemia, and antibiotics are the most frequently encountered cause of this condition, with ceftriaxone being one of the most common. It is believed that ceftriaxone may become affixed to the erythrocyte membrane, leading to an immune reaction resulting in erythrocyte hemolysis. Treatment of drug-induced hemolysis involves stopping the offending drug. Importantly, Lyme disease itself is not associated with hemolysis.
Although warm antibody hemolysis can cause a hemolytic anemia that is DAT positive for IgG, cold agglutinin disease is DAT positive for C3. The peripheral blood smear would show agglutinated cells, and spherocytes would not be present. Furthermore, cold agglutinin disease is not associated with Lyme disease. Cold agglutinin disease can be primary or associated with lymphoproliferative disorders and certain infections, typically Mycoplasma pneumoniae or Epstein-Barr virus.
Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency can cause acute hemolysis with certain medications (for example, sulfonamides, some antimalarials, rasburicase), but ceftriaxone is not a drug associated with G6PD deficiency–induced hemolysis. Also, G6PD-mediated hemolysis is an X-linked disease and is uncommon in women. Finally, the positive DAT and presence of spherocytes on the peripheral blood smear are inconsistent with G6PD deficiency; bite cells and Heinz bodies, which are denatured oxidized hemoglobin visualized as intranuclear inclusions seen on supravital stain, are the expected finding.

**Bibliography**

Mayer B, Bartolmäs T, Yürek S, Salama A. Variability of findings in drug-induced immune haemolytic anaemia: experience over 20 years in a single centre. Transfus Med Hemother. 2015;42:333-9. PMID: 26696803 doi:10.1159/000440673

This content was last updated in March 2019.