
### Correct Answer: D) Monitor platelet count 

**Educational Objective:** Treat chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura during pregnancy.

#### **Key Point:** Pregnant women with immune thrombocytopenic purpura can be safely monitored during their pregnancy without intervention as long as they are asymptomatic and the platelet count remains greater than 30,000/µL (30 × 109/L).

No management beyond monitoring her platelet count and treating her urinary tract infection is needed for this patient. Women with immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) can be safely monitored during their pregnancy without intervention as long as they are asymptomatic and the platelet count remains greater than 30,000/µL (30 × 109/L). If the platelet count drops unexpectedly, other diagnoses, in addition to worsening ITP, must be considered, such as pre-eclampsia, HELLP syndrome (Hemolysis, Elevated Liver enzymes, and Low Platelets), thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), or hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS). This patient's normal blood pressure, absence of proteinuria, and normal liver chemistry tests make pre-eclampsia and HELLP syndrome unlikely. The absence of schistocytes on her peripheral blood smear excludes TTP, HUS, and HELLP syndrome. Her currently decreased platelet count is probably related to her intercurrent infection. However, her platelet count should be monitored closely because it is close to the cut-off for treatment.
Intravenous immune globulin is a first-line therapy option in treating ITP in pregnancy, but treatment is unnecessary when the platelet count is greater than 30,000/µL (30 × 109/L).
This patient does not require therapy at this time. If treatment is needed, prednisone is another first-line option in ITP. Orofacial abnormalities have been reported in neonates when used in the first trimester, but prednisone is safe to use after the 12th week of gestation. However, this patient is only at 10 weeks' gestation, so prednisone would not be preferred if treatment were needed.
Patients with ITP should not receive platelet transfusions because autoantibodies will cross-react with the transfused platelets, interfering with any potential improvement in platelet counts. However, their use in patients with severe bleeding is not disputed.

**Bibliography**

Gernsheimer T, James AH, Stasi R. How I treat thrombocytopenia in pregnancy. Blood. 2013;121:38-47. PMID: 23149846 doi:10.1182/blood-2012-08-448944

This content was last updated in August 2018.