
### Correct Answer: C) Combined chemotherapy and radiation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat limited small cell lung cancer with combined chemotherapy and radiation.

#### **Key Point:** For patients with small cell lung cancer who have large centrally located tumors that are not amenable to resection, standard management is combined chemotherapy and radiation, which can result in cure for about 20% to 30% of patients.

The most appropriate treatment is combined chemotherapy and radiation. This patient has limited small cell lung cancer. Limited disease is defined as nonmetastatic disease that can be encompassed within a single radiation portal. Because this patient's cancer is confined to the left chest and is not metastatic, it meets this definition. Although surgery can be considered for patients with small isolated tumors, this cancer most commonly presents with large centrally located tumors that are not amenable to resection, as it did in this patient. For these patients, standard management is combined chemotherapy and radiation, which can result in cure for about 20% to 30% of patients. Chemotherapy consists of a cisplatin-based combination (usually cisplatin and etoposide) and is started at the same time as radiation. It is important to integrate radiation early in the course of chemotherapy, as delaying radiotherapy has been shown to result in inferior outcomes. Chemotherapy typically continues for a total of four to six cycles.
Chemotherapy alone does not sufficiently control local disease and is also not curative in small cell lung cancer, even in the limited-stage setting.
There is no proven role for chemotherapy followed by radiation. Studies of the use of sequential versus concurrent chemotherapy and radiation have found that concurrent treatment seems to be more effective than sequential treatment. Although in the one reported randomized trial the improvement in survival did not reach statistical significance, the preponderance of available evidence suggests that concurrent treatment is superior to sequential treatment. Therefore, it remains standard care for this patient population.
Radiation alone is not effective and does not result in cure. Small cell lung cancer has a high predilection for metastatic spread, which cannot be prevented by radiation therapy.

**Bibliography**

Tam K, Daly M, Kelly K. Treatment of locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2017 Feb;31(1):45-57. doi:10.1016/j.hoc.2016.08.009. PMID: 27912833

This content was last updated in August 2018.