
### Correct Answer: C) Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist plus radiation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat high-risk prostate cancer with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist plus radiation.

#### **Key Point:** Combination therapy with radiation and a gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist for up to 2 to 3 years results in an improvement in 10-year disease-free and overall survival and is the standard care for patients with high-risk and very-high-risk prostate cancer.

The most appropriate treatment is a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist plus radiation. High-risk prostate cancer is defined as a prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level greater than 20 ng/mL (20 µg/L), a Gleason score of 8 to 10, or evidence of extraprostatic extension of the cancer. Imaging studies, such as pelvic CT or MRI, can be used to assess regional lymph node enlargement in selected patients. Imaging is reserved for patients with a PSA level greater 20 ng/mL (20 µg/L), a Gleason score 8 or greater, and other factors. Patients with high-risk prostate cancer have a significant risk of eventually developing metastatic disease, and they all require treatment unless significant medical comorbidity precludes treatment. In this patient population, there is significant risk of both local recurrence and distant metastatic disease. Studies have shown that the addition of androgen deprivation therapy (most commonly with a GnRH agonist, such as leuprolide) to radiation results in an improvement in 10-year disease-free and overall survival compared with radiation alone in men with high-risk prostate cancer. Based on this data, the combination of radiation with a GnRH agonist for up to 2 to 3 years is the standard care for this patient population.
Brachytherapy is not indicated in patients with high-risk prostate cancer because no evidence supports the efficacy of brachytherapy in this setting. Brachytherapy is typically only recommended for men with low-risk and limited-volume cancer.
Use of a GnRH agonist alone has no role in the treatment of nonmetastatic prostate cancer. In this patient, local treatment (with either radiation or surgery) is definitively indicated, and treatment with a GnRH agonist alone provides no local treatment.
Radiation alone is not recommended given the survival advantage associated with combined GnRH agonist and radiation treatment in men with high-risk and very-high-risk prostate cancer.

**Bibliography**

Bolla M, Van Tienhoven G, Warde P, et al. External irradiation with or without long-term androgen suppression for prostate cancer with high metastatic risk: 10-year results of an EORTC randomized study. Lancet Oncol. 2010 Nov;11(11):1066-73. PMID: 20933466

This content was last updated in August 2018.