
### Correct Answer: B) Enoxaparin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with malignancy-associated pulmonary embolism.

#### **Key Point:** Low-molecular-weight heparin is the anticoagulant of choice for patients with active cancer and a venous thromboembolism.

The most appropriate treatment for this patient is enoxaparin. Approximately 20% of all venous thromboembolisms (VTEs) occur in patients with cancer. The risk for VTE is determined by general risk factors (age, obesity, personal or family history of VTE, coexisting medical conditions, inherited and acquired thrombophilias) and cancer-specific risk factors (cancer type, cancer stage, chemotherapy type, hormonal therapy, surgery, central venous catheters). Active cancer or cancer actively being treated with chemotherapy or radiation therapy increases the VTE risk approximately five- to sixfold, but a history of cancer, or cancer that has undergone curative therapy without evidence of residual disease, does not. He has been diagnosed with metastatic colon cancer and developed a pulmonary embolism. In patients with active malignancy, studies such as the CLOT trial have shown that low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH), such as enoxaparin, is the anticoagulant of choice. In the CLOT trial, LMWH was compared with warfarin in patients with malignancy and thrombosis. LMWH was associated with a statistically significant reduction in the rate of recurrent VTE, making it a preferable choice to warfarin. Extended therapy with LMWH is recommended while the cancer remains active. Extended anticoagulation should be weighed against the risk of bleeding, cost of therapy, quality of life, life expectancy, and patient preference. The decision to continue extended therapy requires frequent reassessments of risk and benefit.
Efficacy and safety data are insufficient to recommend either fondaparinux or the non–vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants (NOACs) for the treatment of malignancy-associated VTE. Although clinical trials are under way to assess the role of NOACs in patients with cancer, guidelines do not exist at this time, and their use has not been standardized in these patients. Few patients with cancer were included in the original clinical trials of these anticoagulants, and LMWH is still considered standard of care for VTE in these patients.

**Bibliography**

Lee AY, Levine MN, Baker RI, Bowden C, Kakkar AK, Prins M, et al; Randomized Comparison of Low-Molecular-Weight Heparin versus Oral Anticoagulant Therapy for the Prevention of Recurrent Venous Thromboembolism in Patients with Cancer (CLOT) Investigators. Low-molecular-weight heparin versus a coumarin for the prevention of recurrent venous thromboembolism in patients with cancer. N Engl J Med. 2003;349:146-53. PMID: 12853587

This content was last updated in September 2019.