
### Correct Answer: B) Cetuximab plus radiation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat locally advanced head and neck cancer.

#### **Key Point:** The standard treatment for locally advanced head and neck cancer is a combination of radiation with systemic therapy, most commonly cisplatin or cetuximab.

The most appropriate treatment is cetuximab plus radiation. Several options exist for treatment of locally advanced head and neck cancer. However, in many cases, surgery is not recommended as first-line treatment. In addition, significant morbidity is expected with open surgery to resect large, locally advanced cancers. For these reasons, nonsurgical treatment is often recommended in this setting. The standard treatment of such patients is a combination of radiation with systemic therapy, most commonly either cisplatin or cetuximab. Randomized trials have clearly demonstrated improved survival in patients treated with either cisplatin or cetuximab plus radiation compared with those treated with radiation alone. For example, 3-year survival in a pivotal randomized trial was 55% in patients receiving cetuximab and radiation compared with 45% in patients treated with radiation alone. No study to date has determined whether cetuximab or cisplatin is preferred in this setting. However, because of long-term experience with cisplatin and the significantly higher cost of cetuximab, cisplatin is preferred unless there is a contraindication to use of this agent. Cisplatin is nephrotoxic and should be avoided or used cautiously in patients with preexisting kidney injury. Although no threshold exists to determine safe use, past and most current studies have not included patients with a serum creatinine level greater than 1.5 mg/dL (132.6 µmol/L). If there is a compelling reason to use cisplatin, dose reduction based on creatinine clearance is recommended. For this patient, who has chronic kidney disease with a baseline creatinine level of 1.8 mg/dL (159.1 µmol/L), cisplatin should be avoided and, therefore, cetuximab combined with radiotherapy is the most appropriate treatment.
There is no evidence to support a role for bevacizumab, a monoclonal antibody directed against vascular endothelial growth factor, in the treatment of locally advanced head and neck cancer.
Although radiation alone can be used for treatment of very-early-stage disease, this patient has locally advanced disease, and radiation alone is not sufficient treatment based on data clearly identifying an improvement in survival with combined radiation and systemic therapy, as discussed above.

**Bibliography**

Bonner JA, Harari PM, Giralt J, et al. Radiotherapy plus cetuximab for squamous-cell carcinoma of the head and neck. N Engl J Med. 2006 Feb 9;354(6):567-78. PMID: 16467544

This content was last updated in October 2020.