
### Correct Answer: A) Conization 

**Educational Objective:** Manage early-stage cervical cancer while maintaining fertility.

#### **Key Point:** Conization, or excision of a cone-shaped portion of the cervix, is a fertility preservation surgery for patients who have stage IA cervical cancer, defined as microscopic disease without visible tumor.

The most appropriate management for this patient with early-stage cervical cancer and concerns about future fertility is conization, which consists of excision of a cone-shaped portion of the cervix. Discussion of the impact of treatment options on fertility is important for reproductive-age patients with cancer and especially relevant for women with cervical cancer, almost half of whom are younger than 45 years of age. Patients with early-stage cervical cancer, which includes stage IA (microscopic disease without visible tumor), and stage IB1 (visible tumor less than 4 cm in size confined to the cervix) who desire future childbearing are candidates for fertility-sparing surgery. Conization is an option limited to stage IA disease without vascular invasion.
Patients with stage IA1 disease with vascular invasion and patients with stage IA2 or IB1 disease are candidates for radical trachelectomy. Vaginal radical trachelectomy is a fertility preservation surgery that involves removal of the cervix with conservation of the uterus. A permanent cerclage is placed in the uterine isthmus. In one study of patients who underwent vaginal radical trachelectomy, the 5-year recurrence-free survival was 95.8%. Fifty-eight of 125 women conceived a total of 106 pregnancies, with 75% of the pregnancies carried to term.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy in women with early-stage cervical cancer is not needed; its use in more advanced-stage disease has not been well studied.
Radiation therapy can be used for early-stage cervical cancer, particularly in patients with poor performance status who are not candidates for surgery, but radiation would result in infertility and is thus not the best option in this patient.
Similarly, in early-stage cervical cancer, there is no difference in the rate of recurrence or mortality with more limited surgery that allows future child-bearing compared to radical or simple hysterectomy.

**Bibliography**

Qian Q, Yang J, Cao D, You Y, Chen J, Shen K. Analysis of treatment modalities and prognosis on microinvasive cervical cancer: a 10-year cohort study in China. J Gynecol Oncol. 2014;25:293-300. PMID: 25142622 doi:10.3802/jgo.2014.25.4.293

This content was last updated in August 2018.