
### Correct Answer: A) Continue tamoxifen for 5 more years 

**Educational Objective:** Treat early-stage hormone receptor–positive breast cancer with tamoxifen in a premenopausal patient.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with low-risk, early-stage hormone receptor–positive breast cancer, use of tamoxifen for 10 years has been shown to decrease the risk for breast cancer recurrence and breast cancer mortality.

The most appropriate management for this patient with early-stage hormone receptor–positive breast cancer is to continue tamoxifen for 5 more years. Two large randomized controlled studies have confirmed the benefit of extending tamoxifen to 10 years in decreasing breast cancer recurrence and breast cancer mortality. Ten years of tamoxifen compared with 5 years reduces breast cancer mortality by one third in the first 10 years and by one half after 10 years. The major adverse event with 5 additional years of tamoxifen use was a small increase in the risk for endometrial cancers with no increase in endometrial cancer deaths. There were no increases in fatal pulmonary emboli, stroke, or ischemic heart disease.
In postmenopausal women, estrogen is no longer made in the ovaries but rather in other tissues, such as fat and muscle, through the aromatase enzymes. Use of aromatase inhibitors alone, therefore, is an ineffective strategy in premenopausal women who still have ovarian estrogen production. Because this patient is still having periods, anastrozole will be ineffective; aromatase inhibitors should be used in postmenopausal women only.
Ovarian suppression with leuprolide or other gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists combined with aromatase inhibitors has been shown to decrease the risk for breast cancer recurrence in premenopausal patients with early hormone receptor–positive breast cancer who receive chemotherapy for higher-risk cancers. Based on recent large randomized controlled trials, ovarian suppression does not improve disease-free or overall survival in patients with lower-risk cancers who did not receive initial chemotherapy.

**Bibliography**

Burstein HJ, Temin S, Anderson H, et al. Adjuvant endocrine therapy for women with hormone receptor–positive breast cancer: American Society of Clinical Oncology clinical practice guideline focused update. J Clin Oncol. 2014 Jul 20;32(21):2255-69. PMID: 24868023

This content was last updated in August 2018.