
### Correct Answer: B) Chemotherapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat classic Hodgkin lymphoma.

#### **Key Point:** All patients with classic Hodgkin lymphoma, regardless of stage, receive chemotherapy, usually the doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine regimen, obviating the need for staging laparotomy and splenectomy.

The most appropriate management for this young man with Hodgkin lymphoma is chemotherapy. Hodgkin lymphoma encompasses four classic histologic subtypes (nodular sclerosing, mixed cellularity, lymphocyte predominant, and lymphocyte depleted) and one nonclassic subtype (nodular lymphocyte-predominant subtype expressing the CD20 cell surface antigen). The presentation is consistent among subtypes and is characterized by palpable, firm lymph nodes and, in some patients, B symptoms (fever, night sweats, weight loss). Other physical examination findings include splenomegaly (30%) and hepatomegaly (5%). Hodgkin lymphoma is a highly curable disease, and the best outcomes are achieved with systemic therapy, sometimes in combination with radiation therapy. In the United States, doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine is the most commonly used chemotherapy regimen for classic Hodgkin lymphoma. The need for radiation after chemotherapy for early-stage disease depends on the initial bulk of disease, the response to treatment, and patient and institutional preference.
Bone marrow biopsy, in the absence of unexplained blood abnormalities, is not indicated in the evaluation of patients with Hodgkin lymphoma. Staging no longer includes routine bone marrow biopsy, lymphangiography, or staging laparotomy and splenectomy. High-resolution CT, PET, and the routine use of systemic therapy in even early-stage disease have obviated the need for these staging modalities. Patients with extensive lymph node involvement above the diaphragm are now typically treated with chemotherapy; therefore, there is no need for staging laparotomy and splenectomy to determine the presence of microscopic disease below the diaphragm as the treatment would be no different. With this approach, the short-term morbidity of the staging surgery and long-term risk of overwhelming sepsis from asplenia can be avoided.
Radiation therapy may have a role in this patient's management; however, it is given after completion of chemotherapy for consolidation. Although radiation therapy alone may have a high cure rate for classic Hodgkin lymphoma, the cure rate is higher and toxicity is reduced when chemotherapy is used as the primary treatment modality.

**Bibliography**

Ansell SM. Hodgkin lymphoma: diagnosis and treatment. Mayo Clin Proc. 2015;90:1574-83. PMID: 26541251 doi:10.1016/j.mayocp.2015.07.005

This content was last updated in August 2018.