
### Correct Answer: B) Oral poly (adenosine diphosphate-ribose) polymerase inhibitor 

**Educational Objective:** Treat advanced ovarian cancer with germline BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations using olaparib.

#### **Key Point:** Olaparib is FDA approved as monotherapy for patients with germline BRCA-mutated advanced ovarian cancer previously treated with three or more lines of chemotherapy.

The most appropriate treatment is an oral poly (adenosine diphosphate [ADP]-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor. Olaparib is an oral PARP inhibitor that is FDA-approved monotherapy for patients with germline BRCA-mutated advanced ovarian cancer previously treated with three or more lines of chemotherapy. PARP inhibition leads to the formation of double-stranded DNA breaks that in BRCA-competent tumors are repaired by homologous recombination. Tumors with germline BRCA mutations are unable to repair these defects, leading to cell death (referred to as synthetic lethality). A study of 298 patients with germline BRCA1- or BRCA2-associated cancers showed responses in ovarian, breast, pancreatic, and prostate cancers, with a 31% response rate and median duration of response of 7 months in platinum-resistant ovarian cancers. The most common side effects of olaparib were fatigue, nausea, vomiting, and anemia. In addition to the 15% of ovarian cancers with germline BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations, up to 50% of high-grade serous ovarian cancers may be deficient in homologous recombination repair due to somatically acquired BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations, epigenetic inactivation of BRCA1, or other defects in the homologous recombination pathway. These ovarian cancers with a “BRCAness” phenotype are also responsive to PARP inhibitors. Olaparib has also been approved for maintenance therapy in patients with BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations who are in a complete or partial remission after first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.
High-dose chemotherapy with hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is not recommended for the treatment of ovarian cancer, neither as initial treatment nor after recurrence.
Intraperitoneal chemotherapy is not effective in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer.
Given the activity of olaparib in the setting of a germline BRCA1 mutation and this patient's good performance status, it is reasonable to recommend continuing cancer-directed therapy at this time. In patients who did not benefit from previous treatment and with poor performance status (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status, 3-4) or in those with bowel obstruction in the setting of refractory ovarian cancer, changing to supportive care would be appropriate.

**Bibliography**

Kaufman B, Shapira-Frommer R, Schmultzer RK, et al. Olaparib monotherapy in patients with advanced cancer and a germline BRCA1/2 mutation. J Clin Oncol. 2015 Jan 20;33(3):244-50. PMID: 25366685

This content was last updated in May 2019.