
### Correct Answer: C) Delay chemotherapy until counseled by a fertility specialist 

**Educational Objective:** Manage fertility in a female patient with cancer.

#### **Key Point:** For women who desire future childbearing who are medically stable, initiation of chemotherapy can be delayed for a brief time to allow assessment by a fertility specialist.

The most appropriate option for this patient is to meet with a fertility specialist. Young women with cancer who may wish to bear children after cancer treatment can be seen emergently and counseled about their options. An established fertility preservation option for a woman with a partner is in vitro fertilization with embryo freezing. Newer options include freezing of unfertilized eggs and ovarian cryopreservation with future reimplantation. Delaying initiation of chemotherapy for a brief time in a stable patient so she can be assessed and eggs or embryos harvested if appropriate is acceptable. Premenopausal women with breast cancer who do not wish to become pregnant should use a nonhormonal method of birth control.
Although a hormone receptor–negative, HER2-positive cancer is potentially aggressive and initiation of her neoadjuvant treatment should not be unnecessarily delayed, it is not an emergency and there is time for her to meet with a fertility specialist. With the use of chemotherapy and anti-HER2 therapy in combination with appropriate local therapy, she should have a reasonably high likelihood of cure. Restricting her therapy to only local therapy with surgery and radiation decreases her chance for cure and is not the best option.
There is no evidence that women who become pregnant after a diagnosis of breast cancer have a higher rate of recurrence than similarly staged patients who do not become pregnant. Therefore, there is no reason to counsel this patient against future pregnancies.

**Bibliography**

Lambertini M, Del Mastro L, Pescio MC, et al. Cancer and fertility preservation: international recommendations from an expert meeting. BMC Med. 2016 Jan 4;14:1.doi: 10.1186/s12916-015-0545-7. PMID: 26728489

This content was last updated in August 2018.