
### Correct Answer: D) Proton pump inhibitor and antibiotic therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat gastric MALT lymphoma associated with Helicobacter pylori infection.

#### **Key Point:** The initial treatment for gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma associated with Helicobacter pylori infection is proton pump inhibitor and antibiotic therapy.

The appropriate treatment for this patient with gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma associated with Helicobacter pylori infection is proton pump inhibitor and dual antibiotic therapy, such as clarithromycin and amoxicillin, for 7 to 14 days. Chronic antigen stimulation can lead to clonal expansion of MALT and progress to malignant transformation manifesting as lymphoma. The lymphoma originates in B cells in the marginal zone of MALT and expresses the CD20 surface antigen. Eradication of H. pylori infection is associated with a high rate of response and long-term remission for these tumors and is the treatment of choice given its efficacy and ease of use. Regression of these lymphomas occurs slowly, and serial endoscopy will be needed to document this patient's response to therapy.
For MALT lymphoma that is not localized to the stomach or, rarely, that is localized to the stomach but does not respond to eradication of H. pylori infection, anti-CD20–directed therapy with rituximab may be effective. However, the initial treatment for this patient is eradication of H. pylori infection.
Although surgery can be used to treat localized gastrointestinal lymphomas, it is generally performed in the setting of a complication, such as hemorrhage or perforation, because other therapies are less invasive and may be as effective as or more effective than surgery.
Obtaining a PET scan to complete staging before making treatment recommendations is not needed for this patient. Marginal zone lymphomas are less likely to be detected by PET than follicular and aggressive lymphomas; therefore, the test is less sensitive and is unlikely to change management in the absence of other abnormal findings on CT scanning or clinical examination.
Radiation therapy is quite effective in the treatment of gastric marginal zone lymphoma, with high local control rates and relatively low toxicity. However, radiation would generally be reserved for patients for whom H. pylori eradication therapy has failed, those with residual or recurrent disease, or those who are H. pylori−negative and thus not likely to respond to antibiotic therapy.

**Bibliography**

Zucca E, Bertoni F. The spectrum of MALT lymphoma at different sites: biological and therapeutic relevance. Blood. 2016;127:2082-92. PMID: 26989205 doi:10.1182/blood-2015-12-624304

This content was last updated in August 2018.