
### Correct Answer: A) Exemestane 

**Educational Objective:** Provide chemoprevention in a patient at high risk for breast cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with lobular carcinoma in situ and atypical hyperplasia are candidates for chemoprophylaxis with antiestrogens.

Exemestane is the most appropriate preventive measure. This postmenopausal woman has lobular carcinoma in situ and atypical hyperplasia. These atypical lesions are associated with a 30% to 35% lifetime risk of breast cancer, and patients with these findings on breast biopsy are candidates for chemoprophylaxis with antiestrogens. Antiestrogen options include tamoxifen in both premenopausal and postmenopausal women as well as raloxifene and aromatase inhibitors (such as exemestane or anastrozole) in postmenopausal women. Because this patient had a deep venous thrombosis while taking oral contraceptives in the past, both tamoxifen and raloxifene are contraindicated, and exemestane is the best option if she is willing to take chemoprophylaxis.
Exemestane prophylaxis decreased the risk of invasive breast cancer by 65% in the National Cancer Institute of Canada (NCIC) Clinical Trials Group MAP.3 trial. Compared with placebo, there were no significant differences between the two arms in terms of skeletal fractures, cardiovascular events, other cancers, or treatment-related deaths. There were minimal differences in quality-of-life symptoms, such as vasomotor symptoms or arthralgia. Unlike tamoxifen and raloxifene, exemestane does not increase the risk for venous thromboembolic disease or endometrial cancer. Anastrozole, another aromatase inhibitor, has also been shown to decrease the risk of breast cancer in patients with high-risk conditions and is an alternate option for this patient.
Although vitamin D deficiency has been associated with a higher risk of breast cancer, there are no studies supporting high-dose vitamin D as an effective method to decrease the risk of breast cancer.
A low-fat diet has been shown to decrease breast cancer recurrence in patients with a diagnosis of estrogen receptor–negative invasive breast cancer but has not been shown to be of benefit in decreasing the risk of breast cancer in patients with atypical breast lesions or other high-risk conditions.
Both raloxifene and tamoxifen are contraindicated due to this patient's history of a deep venous thrombosis.

**Bibliography**

Goss PE, Ingle JN, Alés-Martínez JE, Cheung AM, Chlebowski RT, Wactawski-Wende J, et al; NCIC CTG MAP.3 Study Investigators. Exemestane for breast-cancer prevention in postmenopausal women. N Engl J Med. 2011;364:2381-91. PMID: 21639806 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1103507

This content was last updated in August 2018.