
### Correct Answer: A) Contrast-enhanced CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis 

**Educational Objective:** Stage colorectal cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Staging of patients with colorectal cancer should include a contrast-enhanced CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis to determine the extent of the cancer and to establish a baseline for surveillance.

A contrast-enhanced CT scan is the most appropriate imaging modality for staging of patients with a new diagnosis of colorectal cancer. The preoperative staging evaluation for colorectal cancer should include a complete colonoscopy (if technically feasible) and contrast-enhanced CT scans of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis. Preoperative measurement of serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) levels is also routinely done. In addition to imaging the abdomen and pelvis, the chest should be imaged with CT to rule out pulmonary metastases and to establish a baseline for surveillance. CT imaging with contrast provides the most reliable means of detecting the presence of metastatic disease to the lungs, liver, intra-abdominal lymph nodes, and peritoneum, which are the most common sites of metastatic spread; CT is also useful in planning appropriate therapy. Patients with local or locoregional rectal cancer require further preoperative staging with endorectal ultrasonography or a pelvic MRI to assess the depth of tumor penetration (T stage), degree of lymph node involvement (N stage), and any metastasis (M stage). Staging using the TNM cancer staging system is the most accurate predictor of outcome in patients with colorectal cancer.
CT colonography would not add to the information obtained from a completed colonoscopy. It is an acceptable alternative to a screening colonoscopy for healthy individuals at low risk but is not appropriate for individuals at high risk with unexplained microcytic anemia because it will not provide the option for biopsy if an abnormal result is found.
Liver MRI is a sensitive tool to identify liver metastases and is especially useful in the background of fatty liver, a condition that decreases the sensitivity of contrast CT. In clinical practice, liver MRI is reserved for patients with suspicious but not diagnostic lesions on CT or with contraindications to CT contrast agents.
National guidelines specifically do not recommend PET/CT scans for either preoperative staging or for postoperative surveillance. PET/CT scans have a higher false-positive and false-negative rates than is often appreciated, and have not been shown to improve the accuracy of preoperative staging.

**Bibliography**

Meyerhardt JA, Mangu PB, Flynn PJ, Korde L, Loprinzi CL, Minsky BD, et al; American Society of Clinical Oncology. Follow-up care, surveillance protocol, and secondary prevention measures for survivors of colorectal cancer: American Society of Clinical Oncology clinical practice guideline endorsement. J Clin Oncol. 2013;31:4465-70. PMID: 24220554 doi:10.1200/JCO.2013.50.7442

This content was last updated in August 2018.