
### Correct Answer: E) Ventilation-perfusion lung scan 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose pulmonary embolism in a pregnant patient.

#### **Key Point:** In the presence of normal Doppler studies of the lower extremities, ventilation-perfusion lung scanning is the initial lung imaging study to evaluate for pulmonary embolism in pregnant patients; D-dimer testing has no diagnostic role.

A ventilation-perfusion (V/Q) lung scan should be performed next. Pregnant patients with pulmonary embolism (PE) present with symptoms (like dyspnea) that may overlap with symptoms of pregnancy, so a high index of suspicion is needed. New-onset cough is the presenting finding in 24% of pregnant women with PE. Doppler studies may be negative if the primary clot is in the pelvic veins; if results are negative, evaluation for venous thromboembolism requires imaging of the lung. V/Q scanning should be the initial study in pregnant patients. If the V/Q scan is normal, PE can be reliably excluded. If the V/Q scan is strongly positive, showing perfusion defects without matched ventilation abnormalities in this patient with no asthma or underlying lung disease, PE can be reliably diagnosed and therapy initiated.
CT angiography, the gold standard in the diagnosis of PE in most patients, should not be the initial study in pregnant patients because of radiation exposure to both the mother and the fetus. CT angiography should be reserved for instances when the V/Q scan is equivocal.
D-dimer assays are used to guide venous thromboembolism diagnosis in nonpregnant patients with low probability of disease, but D-dimer levels are elevated during pregnancy, with assays only 73% sensitive and 15% specific in this population. Additionally, D-dimer level should be determined only in patients with a low theoretical suspicion for PE. This patient has a moderate or high presumed likelihood.
Magnetic resonance pulmonary angiography has not been evaluated in pregnant patients, but in nonpregnant patients, the sensitivity for PE is only 85% (although the specificity is 98%). In addition, the long-term effects of gadolinium on the fetus are unknown.
Pulmonary function testing would be helpful to rule out bronchospastic disease as a cause for the patient's cough, but it should be done only after the more life-threatening diagnosis of PE is ruled out.

**Bibliography**

Leung AN, Bull TM, Jaeschke R, Lockwood CJ, Boiselle PM, Hurwitz LM, et al; ATS/STR Committee on Pulmonary Embolism in Pregnancy. An official American Thoracic Society/Society of Thoracic Radiology clinical practice guideline: evaluation of suspected pulmonary embolism in pregnancy. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2011;184:1200-8. PMID: 22086989 doi:10.1164/rccm.201108-1575ST

This content was last updated in August 2018.