
### Correct Answer: A) Initiate anastrozole 

**Educational Objective:** Treat ductal carcinoma in situ.

#### **Key Point:** Anastrozole adjuvant therapy for ductal carcinoma in situ in postmenopausal patients younger than age 60 years decreases the risk of recurrent ipsilateral and contralateral breast cancer but does not decrease overall survival.

Anastrozole is the most effective adjuvant therapy for ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) in postmenopausal women younger than 60 years. In the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project (NSABP) B-35 clinical trial, 5 years of anastrozole was found to be more effective than 5 years of tamoxifen at decreasing both ipsilateral and contralateral breast cancer in postmenopausal women with DCIS who were younger than 60 years when starting treatment. Almost 95% of the anastrozole group was free from local or contralateral recurrence compared to 88% of the tamoxifen group. Overall 10-year survival, approximately 90%, was comparable between the two groups. In women age 60 years or older, anastrozole and tamoxifen yielded equivalent results. All women in this trial were postmenopausal and underwent lumpectomy and breast radiation. Unlike in invasive breast cancer, there is no survival advantage to treatment with antiestrogens for patients with DCIS, and such treatment is discussed as an option for patients who wish to decrease their risk of local recurrence and contralateral breast cancers. Because this patient is younger than 60 years, anastrozole is the most effective adjuvant antiestrogen option to achieve this goal.
Raloxifene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that can be used for breast cancer prophylaxis in patients with atypical breast lesions or in patients with a strong family history of breast cancer, but it is not an effective option for hormonal therapy in patients who have DCIS or invasive cancers.
Chemotherapy is not indicated in the treatment of DCIS. Chemotherapy is used as adjuvant treatment to decrease the risk of distant metastases in many invasive breast cancers, but in DCIS the risk of distant metastases is only 1%. Tamoxifen alone is an option for DCIS and could be discussed as an alternative to anastrozole, particularly in patients who wish to avoid potential anastrozole side effects, such as arthralgia and decreased bone density.
The 21-gene recurrence score testing is used in invasive cancers to determine the benefit of adding adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with estrogen receptor–positive cancers who will be treated with antiestrogen treatment. It is not helpful at determining the benefit of antiestrogen therapy in DCIS. The use of the 21-gene recurrence score in DCIS to determine if radiation can be safely omitted has been studied, but it is not yet approved for this use.

**Bibliography**

Margolese RG, Cecchini RS, Julian TB, Ganz PA, Costantino JP, Vallow LA, et al. Anastrozole versus tamoxifen in postmenopausal women with ductal carcinoma in situ undergoing lumpectomy plus radiotherapy (NSABP B-35): a randomised, double-blind, phase 3 clinical trial. Lancet. 2016;387:849-56. PMID: 26686957 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(15)01168-X

This content was last updated in August 2018.