
### Correct Answer: E) Test for activating mutations 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate for activating mutations in newly diagnosed metastatic nonsquamous non–small cell lung cancer.

#### **Key Point:** For nonsquamous metastatic non–small cell lung cancer, testing for molecular alterations in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), ALK, and ROS1 genes informs treatment options; patients with EGFR mutations derive significant benefit from treatment with erlotinib, whereas those with ALK translocations and ROS1 mutations derive similar benefit from crizotinib.

The most appropriate management is to test for epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), ALK, and ROS1 alterations. Mutations in EGFR, translocation of the ALK and EML-4 genes, or mutation of the ROS1 gene have been identified in a few non–squamous cell lung cancers, usually adenocarcinomas. Patients with EGFR mutations have been found to derive significant benefit from treatment with erlotinib, whereas those with ALK translocations and ROS1 mutations derive similar benefit from crizotinib; these agents are recommended as initial therapy in these patients when mutation status is known before treatment is initiated. In patients who must start treatment before mutation test results are available, these agents can be used later in treatment. Current standard care is to test for these molecular alterations in any patient diagnosed with nonsquamous metastatic non–small cell lung cancer. Although testing can also be considered in patients with squamous histologic findings, the likelihood of finding an alteration is very low.
Erlotinib would not be appropriate for this patient in the absence of a confirmed EGFR mutation because there is no evidence it is effective in patients without the mutation.
Prophylactic cranial irradiation is a standard treatment for patients with metastatic small cell lung cancer after chemotherapy. It is not indicated at the time of diagnosis in patients with non–small cell lung cancer.
Because this patient's thoracic spine lesion is not causing pain, there is no role for palliative radiotherapy at this time.
Patients are often treated with chemotherapy while the results of mutation testing are pending, but it is critical to obtain testing as soon as possible after diagnosis. For this reason, it is most appropriate to perform mutation testing before initiation of chemotherapy.

**Bibliography**

Dholaria B, Hammond W, Shreders A, Lou Y. Emerging therapeutic agents for lung cancer. J Hematol Oncol. 2016 Dec 9;9(1):138. PMID: 27938382

This content was last updated in August 2018.