
### Correct Answer: A) Active surveillance 

**Educational Objective:** Manage very-low-risk prostate cancer with active surveillance.

#### **Key Point:** Active surveillance is a reasonable option in men with low-risk or very-low-risk prostate cancer who have a life expectancy of at least 10 years; active surveillance consists of scheduled assessments that include digital rectal examination, prostate-specific antigen measurement, and prostate biopsy.

The most appropriate management is active surveillance. The American College of Physicians recommends that clinicians inform men between 50 and 69 years of age about the limited potential benefits and substantial harms of screening for prostate cancer. The decision to screen should be based on the patient's general health and life expectancy and patient preferences. This patient has very-low-risk prostate cancer based on his biopsy findings and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level at diagnosis. Management of such patients has evolved during the past several years. Although treatment is a reasonable consideration, recent literature supports the use of active surveillance, which is a program of scheduled assessments that include digital rectal examination, PSA measurement, and prostate biopsy. The purpose of active surveillance is to identify early evidence of cancer progression in an effort to limit treatment to those most likely to benefit. It is appropriate only for men with low-risk or very-low-risk prostate cancer who have a life expectancy of at least 10 years. Although no randomized data are available to support this strategy, available data indicate that the 15-year metastasis-free survival in appropriately selected patients is up to 97%. Active surveillance is currently considered appropriate standard care in this patient population.
Bone scan is not indicated for this asymptomatic patient because he has a very low likelihood of occult metastatic disease. A bone scan would be indicated only if there were signs or symptoms suggestive of osseous metastatic disease.
Leuprolide would be indicated for treatment of metastatic disease, and it can also be combined with radiation for treatment of high-risk or very-high-risk prostate cancer. However, it has no role in the treatment of an asymptomatic patient with very-low-risk prostate cancer.
Observation, sometimes called “watchful waiting,” is distinct from active surveillance. These patients are provided palliative care if and when symptomatic progression requires medical intervention for control of symptoms. Observation is appropriate for elderly men with significant medical comorbidities that limit life expectancy. Treatment is not appropriate for these men based on their relatively short predicted life expectancy.

**Bibliography**

Klotz L, Vesprini D, Sethukavalan P, Jethava V, Zhang L, Jain S, et al. Long-term follow-up of a large active surveillance cohort of patients with prostate cancer. J Clin Oncol. 2015;33:272-7. PMID: 25512465 doi:10.1200/JCO.2014.55.1192

This content was last updated in August 2018.