
### Correct Answer: B) Low-dose chest CT scan 

**Educational Objective:** Perform lung cancer screening after treatment for head and neck cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Many patients with head and neck cancer have significant smoking histories and should be offered lung cancer screening if they meet high-risk criteria.

The most appropriate diagnostic test to perform next is low-dose noncontrast CT scan of the chest. Following definitive treatment for head and neck cancer, patients require ongoing surveillance to look for evidence of recurrence as well as evidence of second primary head and neck cancer. Especially in patients with smoking-related cancers, the risk of a second primary cancer is substantial. Surveillance consists of history, physical examination, and laryngoscopy to examine the entire upper aerodigestive tract.
This patient meets the criteria for screening for lung cancer, independent of the previous head and neck cancer. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommends annual low-dose CT imaging of the thorax for all patients 50 to 80 years of age who have a 20-pack-year smoking history and currently smoke or who have quit within the past 15 years. The history of head and neck cancer further increases the risk for subsequent lung cancer in this patient and heightens the importance of such screening.
There is currently no established role for imaging studies of the head and neck or PET/CT scan in the absence of signs or symptoms indicative of metastatic disease. Imaging is indicated, however, for evaluation of concerning signs or symptoms suggestive of cancer recurrence or a new primary cancer.
The most clearly defined risk factor for thyroid cancer is radiation exposure of the thyroid during childhood. Radiation treatment of childhood cancers is the most likely source of exposure, but other sources include fallout from atomic weapons and nuclear power plant accidents. There are no recommendations for thyroid cancer screening after radiation exposure in adulthood. Such patients should be screened periodically for hypothyroidism with a serum thyroid-stimulating hormone level, but routine thyroid ultrasonography is not recommended.

**Bibliography**

Humphrey LL, Deffebach M, Pappas M, et al. Screening for lung cancer with low-dose computed tomography: a systematic review to update the US Preventive Services Task Force recommendation. Ann Intern Med. 2013 Sep 17;159(6):411-20. PMID: 23897166

This content was last updated in August 2018.