
### Correct Answer: C) Surgical lymph node biopsy 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate lymphadenopathy.

#### **Key Point:** Diagnosis and classification of lymphoma are generally established based on lymph node biopsy.

In this patient with multiple enlarged lymph nodes that have persisted for several weeks and with negative results on fine-needle aspiration, a surgical lymph node biopsy should be performed. A surgical biopsy is preferable to less invasive biopsy techniques because it provides more tissue for a definitive diagnosis and allows study of nodal architecture, provided the nodes being evaluated are easily and safely accessible (for example, cervical, axillary, or inguinal).
Although a core biopsy of lymph nodes can be performed and may be diagnostic, it may not provide adequate tissue, particularly if the samples are small and there is necrosis, fibrosis, or only partial or patchy involvement of the node. In the case of lymphoma, which is likely in this patient, up to 35% of core biopsies of lymph nodes must be followed by an excisional lymph node biopsy to fully classify lymphoma. However, core biopsy may be an appropriate next step if the nodes are deep (for example, retroperitoneal) in an attempt to avoid a more invasive procedure.
A PET/CT scan in this patient may be abnormal but will not be diagnostic and may be positive for inflammatory or infectious conditions as well as lymphoma and other malignancies. Although staging with PET/CT may eventually be needed in this patient, that test would be more appropriate after a diagnosis of lymphoma has been made.
Patients with soft, small, freely movable lymph nodes that are limited to the cervical or inguinal area and who have no other significant history or physical examination findings can be followed with serial examinations over 6 to 8 weeks and require no additional investigation. However, from 30% to 50% of patients with supraclavicular lymphadenopathy have an associated malignancy. Right supraclavicular lymphadenopathy is associated with cancer in the thorax, including the mediastinum, lungs, or esophagus. Left supraclavicular lymphadenopathy is associated with abdominal malignancy and lymphoma. Because fine-needle aspiration cytology is an insensitive test, particularly in the diagnosis of lymphoma, further evaluation with lymph node excision is indicated.

**Bibliography**

Frederiksen JK, Sharma M, Casulo C, Burack WR. Systematic review of the effectiveness of fine-needle aspiration and/or core needle biopsy for subclassifying lymphoma. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2015;139:245-51. PMID: 25611108 doi:10.5858/arpa.2013-0674-RA

This content was last updated in August 2018.