
### Correct Answer: A) Palliative care consultation 

**Educational Objective:** Manage metastatic non–small cell lung cancer with palliative care.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with metastatic non–small cell lung cancer, early institution of palliative care has been shown to improve both quality of life and survival; palliative care does not preclude aggressive cancer treatment.

The most appropriate management in addition to platinum-based chemotherapy is palliative care consultation. In patients with metastatic non–small cell lung cancer, early institution of palliative care has been shown to improve both quality of life and survival. Palliative care does not preclude aggressive cancer treatment with platinum-based combination chemotherapy and other interventions. Palliative care complements cancer treatment through its emphasis on controlling both cancer- and treatment-related symptoms that may interfere with effective treatment. It also makes it easier for patients and treating physicians to decide when treatment is no longer indicated, either because of insufficient efficacy or problematic toxicity. Current standard care is to offer palliative care services at the time of diagnosis with metastatic non–small cell lung cancer and, by extension, in patients diagnosed with any advanced incurable cancer.
PET/CT scan plays no role in this patient's management, as CT and bone scans have already been performed and have already documented the extent of metastatic disease.
Prophylactic cranial irradiation is indicated in selected patients with small cell lung cancer, but it is not appropriate in patients with non–small cell lung cancer.
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation testing is not indicated because this patient has squamous cell carcinoma and has a smoking history. The incidence of EGFR mutation in such a patient is very low, and routine testing is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Temel JS, Greer JA, Muzikansky A, et al. Early palliative care for patients with metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med. 2010 Aug 19;363(8):733-42. PMID: 20818875

This content was last updated in August 2018.