
### Correct Answer: B) An immune checkpoint inhibitor 

**Educational Objective:** Treat mismatch repair–deficient colorectal cancer.

#### **Key Point:** An immune checkpoint inhibitor, such as pembrolizumab, shows benefit in patients with metastatic mismatch repair−deficient colorectal cancer.

An immune checkpoint inhibitor is the most reasonable treatment. This patient now has metastatic colorectal cancer with a mismatch repair–deficient tumor. Tumors may be mismatch repair deficient either because of a germline mutation (Lynch syndrome) or a somatic mutation or epigenetic silencing that is limited to the tumor. In either case, these mismatch repair–deficient tumors represent the very limited subset of metastatic colorectal cancers that have shown substantial benefit in a few small studies from treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors, such as pembrolizumab or nivolumab. Unfortunately, these mismatch repair–deficient tumors represent only a small minority of patients with metastatic cancer. For most patients with metastatic colorectal disease (greater than 95%), immune checkpoint inhibitors have thus far been essentially ineffective.
Epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors such as panitumumab or cetuximab are inappropriate for consideration in a patient with a mutation in KRAS or any other RAS gene because they are potentially active only in tumors with nonmutated KRAS, NRAS, and BRAF genes.
Several trials have examined the efficacy of simultaneously targeting both vascular endothelial growth factor and the endothelial growth factor receptor with dual antibody therapy. However, this synergic approach has not been shown to be effective, and the results suggest that dual antibody therapy for this patient is not the next most reasonable treatment option.
Although supportive comfort care only should be considered in patients who are either too sick for treatment or who have exhausted all reasonable treatment options, such a course of action would not be the first consideration in a fully functional patient with a meaningful treatment option.

**Bibliography**

Le DT, Uram JN, Wang H, Bartlett BR, Kemberling H, Eyring AD, et al. PD-1 Blockade in Tumors with Mismatch-Repair Deficiency. N Engl J Med. 2015;372:2509-20. PMID: 26028255 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1500596

This content was last updated in August 2018.