
### Correct Answer: A) Assess immunoglobulin levels 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent recurrent pneumonia in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

#### **Key Point:** Intravenous immunoglobulin G replacement therapy reduces the risk of infections in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia with documented hypogammaglobulinemia.

This patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has had three hospitalizations for pneumonia in the past year, and assessing his immunoglobulin levels would be appropriate. Patients with CLL frequently are hypogammaglobulinemic and are prone to sinus and pulmonary infection. Intravenous immunoglobulin G replacement therapy has been shown to reduce the risk of infections in patients with CLL with documented hypogammaglobulinemia. Surveillance for viral infections and early initiation of antimicrobial agents for presumed bacterial infections are also essential.
Although this patient has lymphocytosis, lymphadenopathy, and splenomegaly, their presence alone is not an indication to treat his underlying CLL in the absence of symptoms or more significant cytopenias.
Although the patient has only 5% neutrophils and 1% bands, his total leukocyte count is 34,000/µL (34 × 109/L), and thus he is not significantly neutropenic. Even if he were neutropenic, long-term granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) injections would not be appropriate.
Ibrutinib is an appropriate therapy for CLL that requires treatment because it is taken orally, is relatively easy for most patients to tolerate, and is associated with high response rates in both untreated and previously treated patients. However, there is no clear benefit to immediate initiation of ibrutinib therapy in asymptomatic patients.

**Bibliography**

Sánchez-Ramón S, Dhalla F, Chapel H. Challenges in the role of gammaglobulin replacement therapy and vaccination strategies for hematological malignancy. Front Immunol. 2016;7:317. PMID: 27597852 doi:10.3389/fimmu.2016.00317

This content was last updated in August 2018.