
### Correct Answer: D) RAS mutation status of primary tumor 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate recurrent colorectal cancer.

#### **Key Point:** The RAS mutational status of tumors should be tested in patients with metastatic disease to determine if they are candidates for treatment with an epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor, such as cetuximab or panitumumab.

The RAS mutation status of an archived primary tumor specimen should be tested next. This patient has colon cancer that has metastasized to the liver and lungs in a pattern that is not surgically curable. Chemotherapy is the treatment of choice, and several different agents will be considered. This patient may be a candidate for treatment with an epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor, such as cetuximab or panitumumab. All patients with metastatic colorectal cancer should have tumor genotyping to identify mutations in the KRAS and NRAS genes because cetuximab and panitumumab are inactive in the 40% to 50% of tumors that harbor these mutations. It is therefore standard practice to obtain RAS mutational status of tumors of patients with metastatic disease. RAS mutations, when they occur, occur early in carcinogenesis, such that the RAS mutation status of the primary tumor and a subsequent recurrence are very highly concordant, and rebiopsy of the tumor for RAS status is not necessary. The absence of KRAS or NRAS mutations does not predict therapeutic success with cetuximab or panitumumab; up to 40% of tumors with wild type (nonmutated) genes will not respond to these agents. Multigene sequencing may open some experimental options, but it does not yield actionable information in terms of standard management options at this time. Thus, the expense is not warranted outside of a potential research setting.
The presentation and imaging of this patient, who was at high risk for recurrence, are virtually diagnostic of metastatic colon cancer, and an invasive procedure, such as needle biopsy, for pathologic confirmation is neither required nor appropriate.
A PET/CT scan would not provide any additional information to the imaging that is already available and would not change management.

**Bibliography**

Allegra CJ, Rumble RB, Hamilton SR, Mangu PB, Roach N, Hantel A, et al. Extended RAS gene mutation testing in metastatic colorectal carcinoma to predict response to anti-epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal antibody therapy: American Society of Clinical Oncology provisional clinical opinion update 2015. J Clin Oncol. 2016;34:179-85. PMID: 26438111 doi:10.1200/JCO.2015.63.9674

This content was last updated in August 2018.