
### Correct Answer: C) Pemetrexed maintenance chemotherapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat non–small cell lung cancer that responds to first-line chemotherapy with maintenance chemotherapy.

#### **Key Point:** Maintenance chemotherapy is an appropriate option for patients with metastatic non–small cell lung cancer who respond to first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.

The most appropriate treatment is pemetrexed maintenance chemotherapy. In the absence of a driver mutation, the current standard for management of patients with metastatic non–small cell lung cancer and good performance status is platinum-based chemotherapy. Many combinations can be used, including carboplatin and pemetrexed, which was used for this patient. Treatment is given for four to six cycles depending on response. There is no evidence to support continuation of treatment after six cycles. However, maintenance chemotherapy, such as with single-agent pemetrexed, has been shown to improve progression-free survival and, in some studies, overall survival. Therefore, maintenance chemotherapy is an appropriate option for patients with metastatic non–small cell lung cancer who respond to first-line platinum-based chemotherapy. Either the nonplatinum agent used for first-line treatment is continued as a single agent (“continuation maintenance”) or an alternative agent, most commonly docetaxel, is used (“switch maintenance”).
Continuation of platinum-based chemotherapy with a different partner agent is not indicated for this patient. There is no evidence supporting the use of carboplatin beyond six cycles in patients with metastatic non–small cell lung cancer. In addition, this patient has been diagnosed with adenocarcinoma, and currently available evidence indicates that gemcitabine is not effective in patients with adenocarcinoma.
Because this patient did not have an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation, there is no role for erlotinib treatment. Erlotinib is effective only in patients with an identified activating EGFR mutation.
For patients with metastatic disease, radiation is reserved for palliation of cancer-related symptoms, most commonly pain. It has no role in treatment of the cancer.

**Bibliography**

Ciuleanu T, Brodowicz T, Zielinski C, et al. Maintenance pemetrexed plus best supportive care versus placebo plus best supportive care for non-small-cell lung cancer: a randomised, double-blind, phase 3 study. Lancet. 2009 Oct 24;374(9699):1432-40. PMID: 19767093

This content was last updated in August 2018.