
### Correct Answer: A) Admit patient to the hospital for inpatient management 

**Educational Objective:** Treat an asthma exacerbation in the hospital.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with asthma exacerbations who have signs that indicate a severe attack should be hospitalized.

This patient should be hospitalized for further management. She has an asthma exacerbation and factors that increase her risk of asthma-related death, including several recent exacerbations, history of intubation for asthma, history of anxiety, and poor compliance with her controller medications. She also has worrisome clinical signs, including tachycardia and diminished oxygen saturation, increased work of breathing and decreased air movement on chest examination. These physical findings suggest a severe degree of airflow obstruction and risk for impending respiratory failure; therefore, the most appropriate site of care is the hospital.
Management should include close monitoring of dyspnea, work of breathing, and vital signs; frequent bronchodilator treatment; and systemic glucocorticoids. Pulse oximetry may be falsely reassuring because patients maintain normal oxygen levels despite high work of breathing, and hypoxemia is a late sign of pending respiratory failure. In patients who are at high risk or have lack of symptom resolution with initial therapies, arterial blood gas assessment is vital and should initially reveal hyperventilation with a low arterial PCO2. Normalization of the arterial PCO2 could be an early indicator of respiratory muscle fatigue and impending respiratory arrest.
Outpatient treatment with prednisone and the patient's other medications would not be appropriate for this high-risk patient with severe asthma.

**Bibliography**

Prasad Kerlin M. In the clinic. Asthma. Ann Intern Med. 2014;160:ITC3 2-15; quiz ITC3 16-9. PMID: 24737276

This content was last updated in August 2018.