
### Correct Answer: E) Insert an endotracheal tube 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent airway aspiration by establishing a secure airway in patients who are unable to protect their airway.

#### **Key Point:** In patients who cannot maintain a patent airway or protect the airway against aspiration, a secure airway should be established.

An endotracheal tube should be placed to establish a secure airway. This patient has upper gastrointestinal bleeding and several features of cirrhosis (telangiectasias, jaundice, ascites), and likely has an acute variceal bleed. Mortality in these patients is high and requires multidisciplinary management. Initial management of esophageal variceal bleeding includes placement of two large-bore intravenous lines, fluid resuscitation, and erythrocyte transfusion to a goal hemoglobin level of 7 g/dL (70 g/L) or greater. Up to 50% of patients with cirrhosis and gastrointestinal bleeding develop infections within 1 week, and prophylactic antimicrobial agents improve mortality rates. A splanchnic vasoconstrictor such as octreotide is recommended for 3 to 5 days. Upper endoscopy with band ligation should be performed urgently after the patient is stabilized, followed by addition of a nonselective β-blocker. For the 10% to 20% of patients with uncontrolled bleeding and those with early rebleeding, a transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) should be placed. Early airway management to prevent aspiration is essential when a patient cannot protect the airway or is otherwise at risk for aspiration of blood or gastric contents. This patient has altered mental status and ongoing hemorrhage, both risk factors for airway aspiration.
A nonselective β-blocker is recommended as secondary prophylaxis against rebleeding after recovery from a variceal bleed, but it would not be warranted in the acute setting in this patient with hypotension.
Oxygen by nasal cannula is not indicated as the patient has adequate oxygenation; furthermore, additional oxygen though nasal cannula would not help establish a secure airway.
An upper endoscopy should be performed in this patient with presumed variceal hemorrhage, but only after his airway has been secured and he has been treated with standard pharmacotherapy (octreotide and antibiotics) and appropriately resuscitated to enable safe endoscopy.
Noninvasive bilevel positive airway pressure ventilation does not provide a secure airway and is contraindicated in patients with altered mental status or risk of vomiting because it can increase the risk of aspiration if the patient were to vomit into the mask.

**Bibliography**

Long B, Koyfman A. The emergency medicine evaluation and management of the patient with cirrhosis. Am J Emerg Med. 2017 Dec 23. pii: S0735-6757(17)31049-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ajem.2017.12.047. [Epub ahead of print] PMID: 29290508

This content was last updated in August 2018.