
### Correct Answer: B) Continue to observe for several hours 

**Educational Objective:** Treat acute opioid overdose with naloxone.

#### **Key Point:** In the treatment of opioid overdose the antidote effects of naloxone will usually wear off before the opioid effects are gone; observation and repeated dosing are often necessary.

The most appropriate management is continued observation for signs of recurrent respiratory failure. Patients with opioid overdose have findings that suggest the diagnosis including: miosis, respiratory depression, lethargy, confusion, hypothermia, bradycardia, and hypotension. An early empiric trial of the opioid antagonist naloxone is warranted when opioid overdose is suspected. It is important to remember that naloxone has a very short half-life, and its antidote effects will usually wear off before the opioid effects are gone. Naloxone is given at higher doses to apneic patients, such as 2 mg intravenously (IV), which is larger than the typical starting dose of 0.4 mg IV usually given to overdose patients who are still breathing. The dose of naloxone is titrated to a respiration rate of at least 12/min, not to a normal mental status. Chronic opioid users require close monitoring for withdrawal.
Serial escalating doses of naloxone may be necessary in some patients, and patients who respond to serial dosing may require a continuous naloxone infusion. However, there is no immediate need for more naloxone because this patient has normal breathing and mentation. During the period of observation, more naloxone may be needed if her respiration rate slows or stops.
This patient cannot be discharged until it is known that her respiratory suppression will not return when the naloxone wears off. Patients should be observed for at least 60 minutes after the last dose of naloxone. Drug addiction resources should be accessed for this patient. It is also appropriate after overdose to rule out suicidal ideation or intent and refer the patient to a psychiatric clinician if needed.
Endotracheal intubation would not be appropriate because the patient is protecting her airway and is not in respiratory distress or failure. Intubation is required for patients whose respiratory suppression cannot be quickly reversed with naloxone.

**Bibliography**

Willman MW, Liss DB, Schwarz ES, Mullins ME. Do heroin overdose patients require observation after receiving naloxone? Clin Toxicol (Phila). 2017;55:81-87. PMID: 27849133 doi:10.1080/15563650.2016.1253846

This content was last updated in August 2018.