
### Correct Answer: C) Obesity hypoventilation syndrome 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose obesity hypoventilation syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Obesity hypoventilation syndrome is characterized by daytime hypercapnia, defined as an arterial PCO2 greater than 45 mm Hg that is thought to be a consequence of diminished ventilatory drive and capacity related to extreme obesity.

The most likely diagnosis is obesity hypoventilation syndrome. Obesity hypoventilation syndrome is characterized by daytime hypercapnia (arterial PCO2 greater than 45 mm Hg [5.9 kPa]) that is thought to be a consequence of diminished ventilatory drive and capacity related to extreme obesity. Persons with a BMI of 35 or higher are considered at risk for obesity hypoventilation syndrome; it's estimated that more than half of patients with a BMI of 50 or higher have this condition. This patient's BMI of 44, compensated hypercapnic respiratory failure, hypoxemia during wakefulness but more pronounced during sleep, and polycythemia are all consistent with obesity hypoventilation syndrome. Positive airway pressure therapy (continuous positive airway pressure or bilevel positive airway pressure), sometimes with supplemental oxygen, is first-line therapy.
Neuromuscular diseases that can affect the respiratory system must be considered in the differential diagnosis of hypoventilation syndromes. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) often leads to hypercapnic respiratory failure. However, this patient has an unremarkable neurologic examination and none of the typical features of ALS, such as muscle weakness and fasciculations and hyperactive deep tendon reflexes.
Central sleep apnea (CSA) is defined by intermittent reduced central drive to breathe but is not a hypoventilation syndrome. In fact, the tendency to hyperventilate, as seen with the cyclic ventilatory pattern of Cheyne-Stokes breathing, is a key underlying mechanism of CSA. Patients with CSA are generally normocapnic or slightly hypocapnic on blood gas testing.
An apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) of 5 to 15 is indicative of mild obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). This patient has mild OSA based upon an AHI of 6. OSA is typically encountered on sleep testing in those with obesity hypoventilation syndrome, with upper airway collapse superimposed on obesity-related hypoventilation. Severe OSA is defined as an AHI of at least 30; OSA severity is not defined by degree or duration of hypoxemia.

**Bibliography**

Randerath W, Verbraecken J, Andreas S, Arzt M, Bloch KE, Brack T, et al. Definition, discrimination, diagnosis and treatment of central breathing disturbances during sleep. Eur Respir J. 2017;49. PMID: 27920092 doi:10.1183/13993003.00959-2016

This content was last updated in August 2018.