
### Correct Answer: E) Levofloxacin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat an acute exacerbation of bronchiectasis with antibiotics.

#### **Key Point:** If previous data on bronchiectasis exacerbations are not available, a fluoroquinolone should be started to ensure Pseudomonas coverage until the sputum culture is completed.

The most appropriate treatment of this patient is levofloxacin. Oral antibiotic treatment is appropriate for clinically stable patients with an acute exacerbation of bronchiectasis. The choice of antibiotic therapy can be based on previous sputum culture results, if available. If not available, a reasonable empiric antibiotic choice is a respiratory fluoroquinolone such as levofloxacin or moxifloxacin. Although duration of therapy is not well defined, most experts treat for 10 to 14 days.
Amoxicillin or a macrolide such as azithromycin is a reasonable choice for patients in the absence of β-lactamase-positive Haemophilus influenzae or Pseudomonas. Initial empiric therapy can also be deescalated to amoxicillin based on the results of sputum culture and sensitivity. However, in the absence of bacteriologic data from sputum culture, amoxicillin is an inadequate choice for empiric therapy in patients with recurrent acute exacerbations previously treated with antibiotics due to the high risk of β-lactamase producing organisms and Pseudomonas.
For similar reasons, azithromycin is not an appropriate empiric antibiotic for this patient. There is likely a role for long-term azithromycin therapy to prevent recurrent exacerbations of bronchiectasis. The salutary effect on chronic macrolide therapy in these situations may not be entirely due to its antimicrobial properties but rather its well-known antiinflammatory properties. However, the development of antibiotic resistance is a potential risk.
Oral or inhaled glucocorticoids would seem to be reasonable adjunctive therapy for patients with acute exacerbation of bronchiectasis, but supporting evidence for their use is sparse. Some experts may employ glucocorticoids in patients with coexistent asthma and wheezing or allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, but the risk of routine use is related to immunosuppression and promotion of bacterial and fungal colonization and is not recommended.
Inhaled aerosols of antibiotics, including inhaled tobramycin solution, are not recommended for an acute exacerbation of bronchiectasis. This recommendation is based on a multicenter randomized trial that demonstrated the addition of inhaled tobramycin to ciprofloxacin was not superior to ciprofloxacin alone but was associated with more wheezing. There may be a role of inhaled antibiotics in the prophylaxis of acute exacerbations of bronchiectasis.

**Bibliography**

Smith MP. Diagnosis and management of bronchiectasis. CMAJ. 2017;189:E828-E835. PMID: 28630359 doi:10.1503/cmaj.160830

This content was last updated in August 2018.