
### Correct Answer: A) Beclomethasone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat inadequately controlled mild persistent asthma by stepping up therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with mild persistent asthma uncontrolled with a short-acting β2-agonist should be stepped up to a controller medication; low-dose inhaled glucocorticoids are preferred.

This patient has mild persistent asthma (albuterol use more than twice weekly but no more than once per day, and FEV1 greater than 80% predicted) and the most appropriate management is to begin low-dose inhaled glucocorticoids such as beclomethasone. An appropriate dosage would be 40 µg per puff with 1 inhalation twice daily. Patients with asthma who require a short-acting β2-agonist more than twice per week for symptom control, rather than to prevent exercise-induced bronchospasm, are considered uncontrolled. The next step in treatment is the addition of low-dose inhaled glucocorticoids. An alternative would be to add montelukast but low-dose inhaled glucocorticoid therapy is preferred. Inhaler technique should be confirmed in all patients when beginning therapy and reviewed regularly.
When inhaled glucocorticoids alone do not achieve asthma control, the addition of a long-acting β2-agonist (LABA) has proved to be effective as step-up therapy. Combination preparations that contain an inhaled glucocorticoid and a LABA are available, such as fluticasone/salmeterol. In addition to bronchodilation, LABAs appear to potentiate anti-inflammatory effects of inhaled glucocorticoids when taken together. However, beginning an inhaled glucocorticoid and a LABA combination is not appropriate, as this patient has mild persistent asthma and a combination inhaled glucocorticoid/LABA is indicated for moderate persistent asthma.
Anticholinergic agents dilate bronchial smooth muscle by decreasing the constrictive cholinergic tone in the airways. Although it is less effective than β2-agonists, the short-acting agent ipratropium can be used as adjunctive quick-relief therapy during asthma exacerbations. However, this patient has poorly controlled asthma and it is appropriate to start controller therapy, such as an inhaled glucocorticoid, to reduce airway inflammation from asthma.
Leukotriene receptor antagonists (LTRAs), such as montelukast, are not considered preferred first-line controller therapy in any asthma population. LTRAs may have a particular role in aspirin-sensitive asthma and a protective role in exercise-induced asthma; however, low-dose inhaled glucocorticoids are preferred in this patient with uncontrolled mild persistent asthma.

**Bibliography**

McCracken JL, Veeranki SP, Ameredes BT, Calhoun WJ. Diagnosis and management of asthma in adults: a review. JAMA. 2017;318:279-290. PMID: 28719697 doi:10.1001/jama.2017.8372

This content was last updated in March 2020.