
### Correct Answer: C) Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

#### **Key Point:** Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis typically occurs in older individuals with nonproductive cough and progressive dyspnea on exertion; the diagnosis is supported by findings of usual interstitial pneumonitis on a high-resolution CT scan of the chest.

The most likely diagnosis is idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Patients with IPF typically present with chronic shortness of breath on exertion and a dry cough. The prevalence of disease increases with increasing age and is rare in individuals younger than 50 years. Clubbing is common. A history of smoking is a risk factor for the development of IPF and is commonly seen in these patients. The finding of bilateral, peripheral, and basal predominant septal line thickening with honeycomb changes on CT scan is consistent with usual interstitial pneumonia pathologic pattern and can also be seen in connective tissue disease, asbestosis, and chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis. However, the history is negative for symptoms suggestive of connective tissue disease and for significant environmental exposures. The exclusion of connective tissue diseases and environmental exposures combined with a definite usual interstitial pneumonia imaging pattern supports the diagnosis of IPF. Tobacco smoke is associated with the development of several diffuse parenchymal lung diseases (DPLDs), including IPF. There are also several disorders that generally develop only in individuals who are active smokers; these diseases are all subacute, evolving during weeks to months.
Desquamative interstitial pneumonia is due to extensive, diffuse macrophage filling of alveolar spaces and is accompanied by predominant cough and dyspnea symptoms and bilateral ground-glass opacities on chest imaging.
Hypersensitivity pneumonitis, in its chronic form, is the most common DPLD included in the differential diagnosis for patients with IPF. When fibrosis occurs with chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis, it is typically in the midlung and upper-lung zones and is associated with an environmental exposure, which was not elicited in this patient. Although many patients with chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis may no longer have an exposure to a causative antigen, the typical age of onset, history, and basal predominant CT scan abnormalities favor a diagnosis of IPF rather than hypersensitivity pneumonitis.
Pulmonary Langerhans cell histiocytosis is characterized by thin-walled cysts with accompanying nodules and is often associated with pulmonary hypertension. All of these diseases are subacute, evolving during weeks to months and present in active smokers.
Respiratory bronchiolitis–associated interstitial lung disease is used to describe disease in active smokers who have imaging findings of centrilobular micronodules with a pathologic finding of respiratory bronchiolitis on biopsy.

**Bibliography**

Raghu G, Collard HR, Egan JJ, Martinez FJ, Behr J, Brown KK, et al; ATS/ERS/JRS/ALAT Committee on Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis. An official ATS/ERS/JRS/ALAT statement: idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis: evidence-based guidelines for diagnosis and management. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2011;183:788-824. PMID: 21471066 doi:10.1164/rccm.2009-040GL

This content was last updated in August 2018.