
### Correct Answer: E) No additional testing 

**Educational Objective:** Assess intravascular volume status.

#### **Key Point:** The most appropriate method to evaluate volume status remains the physical examination; several technologies can help confirm the assessment.

No further testing is required. The physical examination has several features that suggest she has decreased intravascular volume and reduced systemic vascular resistance. The presence of warm and vasodilated skin, a very low diastolic pressure, absent jugular venous distention, and tachycardia all suggest severe vasodilation. There are several invasive and noninvasive devices available to aid the clinician to confirm the clinical diagnosis; however, none of them alone can provide a definite answer. Integrating the physical examination and basic vital signs remains the best clinical method to define intravascular volume status and the type of shock.
Central venous catheter measurement of venous pressure can provide information that helps confirm the diagnosis of low central venous pressure; however, it is invasive, subject to technical issues, and the presence of spontaneous breathing needs to be considered when obtaining readings. Studies have demonstrated that a single measurement does not help define intravascular volume status or volume responsiveness. Thus the value must be taken in the context of the history and physical exam.
Fullness of the vena cava as detected by ultrasonography is thought to correlate with increased right atrial pressure, whereas a collapsing inferior vena cava at the end of expiration suggests volume responsiveness. Volume responsiveness refers to an increase in cardiac output upon the administration of fluid. A common inference is that intravascular volume is high when the patient is not volume responsive; however, this would be a limited assumption as the response to volume also involves cardiac function and infusion volume. In addition, the presence of increased respiratory effort will make the measurements unreliable.
A pulmonary artery catheter will provide a plethora of information on the intravascular pressures (by inference, the volume status) and cardiac output of the patient. However, placing a pulmonary artery catheter in a patient with sepsis is invasive, does not improve management, increases complications, and has not demonstrated improved outcome.
Pulse pressure is the difference between systolic and diastolic arterial blood pressure during respiration induced by positive pressure ventilation. A low variation in pulse pressure is believed to be an indicator of unresponsiveness to a fluid challenge whereas a pulse pressure variation of at least 13% to 15% is associated with volume responsiveness. However, this measurement is only reliable in patients who are mechanically ventilated (and not spontaneously triggering the ventilator), receiving 8 mL/kg or more of tidal volume, and in sinus rhythm.

**Bibliography**

Teboul JL, Saugel B, Cecconi M, De Backer D, Hofer CK, Monnet X, et al. Less invasive hemodynamic monitoring in critically ill patients. Intensive Care Med. 2016;42:1350-9. PMID: 27155605 doi:10.1007/s00134-016-4375-7

This content was last updated in August 2018.