
### Correct Answer: C) Small cell lung cancer 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose small cell lung cancer.

#### **Key Point:** Typical imaging findings in patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC) include a large mediastinal mass; hyponatremia due to ectopic production of antidiuretic hormone is most often due to SCLC and is rarely seen with other lung tumors.

The most likely diagnosis is small cell lung cancer (SCLC). SCLC is a neuroendocrine tumor that accounts for approximately 15% of all lung cancers and occurs predominantly in smokers.
This patient has signs and symptoms of hyponatremia and chest CT scan shows a large mediastinal right hilar mass and right-lower-lobe mass (arrows).
Imaging studies in SCLC commonly demonstrate a large hilar mass with bulky mediastinal lymphadenopathy; some patients may not have an obvious primary lesion. Signs and symptoms include cough, dyspnea, weight loss, and debility. Less commonly SCLC can present with endocrinologic or neurologic paraneoplastic syndromes. The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) due to ectopic production of antidiuretic hormone (ADH) is most often due to a SCLC and is rarely seen with other lung tumors. It occurs in approximately 10% of patients and results in hyponatremia. The severity of symptoms is related to the degree of hyponatremia and rapidity of the decrease. They may include anorexia, nausea, and vomiting, but if the decrease is rapid, cerebral edema can occur and may result in irritability, restlessness, personality changes, confusion, coma, seizures, and respiratory arrest. SCLC is more aggressive than non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), is usually already disseminated at presentation, and requires prompt treatment; however, it is often initially more sensitive to chemotherapy and radiotherapy but typically relapses and becomes resistant to further treatment. Staging should not delay treatment.
NSCLC accounts for 80% of lung cancers, of which adenocarcinoma is the most common type, followed by squamous cell. Although NSCLC is in the differential diagnosis for this patient, hyponatremia and a large mediastinal mass are most consistent with SCLC.
Malignant pleural mesothelioma typically presents as a recurrent exudative pleural effusion with pleural thickening in a patient with exposure to asbestos. This patient did not present with a pleural effusion, which makes this diagnosis less likely.

**Bibliography**

Jett JR, Schild SE, Kesler KA, Kalemkerian GP. Treatment of small cell lung cancer: diagnosis and management of lung cancer, 3rd ed: American College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. Chest. 2013;143:e400S-e419S. PMID: 23649448 doi:10.1378/chest.12-2363

This content was last updated in August 2018.