
### Correct Answer: B) Electrocardiogram 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate an acute exacerbation of COPD.

#### **Key Point:** The first steps in managing a patient with a presumed COPD exacerbation are to confirm the diagnosis and to evaluate other causes of the acute presentation.

An electrocardiogram should be obtained for this patient to evaluate other causes of her acute presentation, such as acute myocardial infarction, arrhythmia, and atrial fibrillation. The first steps in managing a patient with a presumed COPD exacerbation are to confirm the diagnosis. Studies helpful in the evaluation may include pulse oximetry to assess oxygenation or guide oxygen therapy; a chest radiograph to rule out an alternative diagnosis; a complete blood count to identify the presence of polycythemia, anemia, or leukocytosis; arterial blood gas studies; a biochemical panel to assess for electrolyte and glycemic abnormalities; and an electrocardiogram to evaluate tachycardia (as in this patient) and for other possible cardiac comorbidity. This patient has already had a chest radiograph and appropriate laboratory studies but an electrocardiogram is also indicated.
Patients with pulmonary embolism (PE) can present with symptoms similar to a COPD exacerbation. Because of this, pretest probability models such as the Wells criteria have been developed and validated to assist in clinical decision making. Patients who have a low pretest probability for PE using the Wells criteria, such as this patient, and who meet all Pulmonary Embolism Rule-Out Criteria do not need further testing to rule out PE. Physicians should obtain a D-dimer assay in patients with intermediate pretest probability for PE or for those with a low pretest probability for PE who do not meet all Pulmonary Embolism Rule-Out Criteria. In these patients, imaging studies should not be used for initial evaluation.
A sputum culture or Gram stain is not routinely used to assess COPD exacerbations as it rarely changes management. For patients with a confirmed COPD exacerbation with cough, increased sputum, and dyspnea, antibiotics are usually initiated regardless of the results of the sputum Gram stain or culture.

**Bibliography**

Holden V, Slack III D, McCurdy MT, Shah NG. Diagnosis and management of acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Emerg Med Pract. 2017;19:1-24. PMID: 28926214

This content was last updated in August 2018.