
### Correct Answer: C) Excessive daytime sleepiness 

**Educational Objective:** Identify the sequela of obstructive sleep apnea most responsive to therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Excessive daytime sleepiness is the strongest indication for treatment of obstructive sleep apnea.

Excessive daytime sleepiness is the strongest indication for treatment of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Excessive daytime sleepiness is thought to result primarily from disruption of sleep architecture due to repetitive breathing events. Randomized trials and meta-analyses of systematic reviews show that positive airway pressure therapy reduces the frequency of respiratory events during sleep and is associated with reduction in daytime sleepiness and improved sleep-related quality of life.
Observational studies that suggest benefit from positive airway pressure therapy on the natural history of atrial fibrillation is yet to be proved in randomized trials. There is a similar lack of proved benefit in other important conditions, such as cardiovascular death. In addition, a recent large multicenter trial failed to show mortality benefit afforded by positive airway pressure therapy in those with OSA and cardiovascular disease.
Trials assessing various measures of glucose homeostasis (fasting glucose, insulin resistance, hemoglobin A1c) in patients with OSA treated with positive airway pressure have shown inconsistent results. This patient requires adjustment of his medication with the goal of reducing the hemoglobin A1c level.
Positive airway pressure therapy has been shown to modestly reduce blood pressure in those with OSA, but the effects are not always consistent. Those with excessive daytime sleepiness tend to be more responsive to these effects than those who are not sleepy. Also, comparative efficacy trials in those with OSA have shown greater reductions in blood pressure with antihypertensive drug therapy than positive airway pressure. This patient's antihypertensive medications should be adjusted with the goal of achieving the target blood pressure level recommended by the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association of less than 130/80 mm Hg.

**Bibliography**

McEvoy RD, Antic NA, Heeley E, Luo Y, Ou Q, Zhang X, et al; SAVE Investigators and Coordinators. CPAP for prevention of cardiovascular events in obstructive sleep apnea. N Engl J Med. 2016;375:919-31. PMID: 27571048 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1606599

This content was last updated in August 2018.