
### Correct Answer: B) Endotracheal intubation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with obesity hypoventilation syndrome and hypercarbic respiratory failure who does not improve quickly with noninvasive ventilation.

#### **Key Point:** Early intubation is indicated for patients with obesity hypoventilation syndrome and hypercapnic respiratory failure who do not improve with noninvasive positive pressure ventilation.

The most appropriate treatment is endotracheal intubation. This patient has developed acute on chronic hypercapnic respiratory failure in the setting of obesity hypoventilation syndrome. In a patient who is able to protect the airway, the initial management of acute hypercapnic respiratory failure due to obesity hypoventilation syndrome includes noninvasive positive pressure ventilation. Because he has an intact gag and cough reflex and is arousable, noninvasive positive pressure ventilation was an appropriate initial choice. However, when patients cannot protect their airway, do not tolerate bilevel positive airway pressure, or do not improve quickly, such as this patient, early intubation should be considered.
Respiratory stimulants such as acetazolamide have been considered adjunctive therapies of last resort for patients who chronically continue to have hypoventilation despite BPAP therapy and weight loss. Acetazolamide, by blocking carbon dioxide conversion to bicarbonate, can lower pH in the brain and theoretically increases central ventilatory drive. This patient already demonstrates significant acidemia with inadequate central respiratory drive. In addition, randomized trials demonstrating efficacy are lacking. Thus, acetazolamide is not recommended for either acute or chronic hypercapnic respiratory failure.
Although many patients with morbid obesity demonstrate features of obstruction or air trapping on pulmonary function testing, only a fraction have true reversible obstructive airways disease pathology. This patient has no clear evidence of obstruction on examination or chest radiograph and no history of asthma or other obstructive airways pathology. Therefore, prednisone use in this setting is not indicated.
Theophylline is a bronchodilator as well as a direct respiratory stimulant. Its use in obesity-hypoventilation syndrome has never been studied and thus is not recommended for treatment of this or other hypercapnic states.

**Bibliography**

Manthous CA, Mokhlesi B. Avoiding management errors in patients with obesity hypoventilation syndrome. Ann Am Thorac Soc. 2016;13:109-14. PMID: 26512908 doi:10.1513/AnnalsATS.201508-562OT

This content was last updated in August 2018.