
### Correct Answer: A) α1-Antitrypsin level 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose a patient with α1-antitrypsin deficiency.

#### **Key Point:** Measurement of α1-antitrypsin level is indicated for patients experiencing symptoms of COPD and who are younger than 45 years of age or have a strong family history of COPD.

An α1-antitrypsin level should be obtained. This patient is younger than the usual age of presentation of COPD, and he does not have a significant smoking history. In this situation it is prudent to rule out other causes of dyspnea, especially in a patient where a diagnosis of COPD is unexpected. Patients experiencing symptoms of COPD and who are younger than 45 years of age or have a strong family history of COPD should be tested for α1-antitrypsin deficiency. Several guidelines even recommend that all patients with COPD regardless of age should be tested for α1-antitrypsin deficiency after weighing the risks and benefits of testing. Patients with this disorder are often misdiagnosed with asthma for many years. They may have a modest smoking history and basilar emphysema (although they may present with any pattern of emphysema), and they may have concurrent liver disease. Patients with α1-antitrypsin deficiency who never smoke may develop symptoms later in life. If the diagnosis of α1antitrypsin deficiency is confirmed, α1-antitrypsin augmentation therapy may slow disease progression, although data on its efficacy are limited.
Nitric oxide promotes dilation of bronchial blood vessels and airways. The fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FENO) is a noninvasive test most commonly used in patients with severe airflow obstruction when other techniques are difficult to perform (for example, assessing airflow in a child or mentally impaired adult). High levels of FENO are typically associated with asthma and other inflammatory airway conditions. Measurement of FENO is not indicated as the next diagnostic test in this patient with a history strongly suspicious for α1-antitrypsin deficiency.
High-resolution CT (HRCT) is indicated if diffuse parenchymal lung disease is suspected. HRCT can help narrow the differential diagnosis based on the distribution of the lung parenchymal abnormalities and the presence or absence of associated findings. Diffuse parenchymal lung disease should be suspected in the presence of restrictive or combined obstructive/restrictive diseases. HRCT is also diagnostically definitive for bronchiectasis, but this condition is typically characterized by cough and voluminous, often purulent, sputum production, which is not present in this patient.
A vascular endothelial growth factor-D level can help in the diagnosis of lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM). However, LAM is a cystic lung disease that mostly affects young women, so testing would not be indicated for this patient.

**Bibliography**

American Thoracic Society. American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society statement: standards for the diagnosis and management of individuals with alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2003;168:818-900. PMID: 14522813

This content was last updated in August 2018.