
### Correct Answer: C) Heated humidification 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient for side effects of positive airway pressure therapy.

#### **Key Point:** In-line heated humidification is available on all positive airway pressure machines and is a simple intervention to mitigate mucosal irritation.

The most appropriate treatment is heated humidification. A common complication of positive airway pressure therapy is desiccation of the nasopharyngeal mucosa by the forced air, often resulting in throat irritation and nasal congestion. In-line heated humidification, available on all positive airway pressure machines, is a simple intervention to mitigate mucosal irritation. Patients can control the temperature and degree of humidity. Although there is conflicting evidence that in-line humidification improves adherence to positive airway pressure therapy, it does mitigate upper airway symptoms.
Bilevel positive airway pressure is indicated for hypoventilation syndromes caused by severe COPD or neuromuscular weakness. There is no evidence that bilevel positive airway pressure is superior to continuous positive airway pressure for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnea without hypoventilation. This patient does not suffer from a hypoventilation syndrome, and he is improving on current therapy; therefore, a change in therapy is not indicated. Finally, bilevel positive airway pressure without humidification will not relieve his upper airway symptoms.
The role of hypnotics in promoting positive airway pressure adherence is controversial and not generally recommended. One study showed nightly eszopiclone (a benzodiazepine receptor agonist) administered to unselected patients during the first 2 weeks of continuous positive airway pressure treatment improved adherence as long as 6 months later. Its continued use beyond initiation of positive airway pressure treatment has not been studied and the risk of side effects may outweigh its benefit. Finally, eszopiclone will not relieve this patient's throat irritation or nasal congestion.
Topical nasal steroids are often prescribed to reduce these side effects of nasal congestion and rhinorrhea, but evidence supporting their effectiveness in reducing upper airway symptoms is sparse. A recent randomized clinical study failed to show a reduction in nasal symptoms or improved adherence to therapy in patients treated with nasal fluticasone compared to placebo.

**Bibliography**

Sommer JU, Kraus M, Birk R, Schultz JD, Hörmann K, Stuck BA. Functional short- and long-term effects of nasal CPAP with and without humidification on the ciliary function of the nasal respiratory epithelium. Sleep Breath. 2014;18:85-93. PMID: 23657665 doi:10.1007/s11325-013-0853-0

This content was last updated in August 2018.