
### Correct Answer: C) Discontinue ibuprofen, begin prednisone 

**Educational Objective:** Recognize the role of NSAIDs in poor control of asthma.

#### **Key Point:** Treatment of aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease consists of symptom treatment with glucocorticoids and removal of the exposure; treatment can also include a leukotriene receptor antagonist.

Treatment with ibuprofen should be discontinued for this patient, and therapy with prednisone should be started. This patient is presenting with signs of aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease, triggered by his use of ibuprofen. This condition refers to upper and lower respiratory tract reactions to ingestion of substances inhibiting cyclooxygenase-1, which includes aspirin and many NSAIDs. Also known as aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease or Samter's triad, aspirin-sensitive asthma includes severe persistent asthma, aspirin sensitivity, and hyperplastic eosinophilic sinusitis with nasal polyposis. Asthma is worsened by exposure to aspirin or other NSAIDs, likely because of the inhibition of cyclooxygenase and the resulting increase in leukotriene synthesis. Ingestion of cyclooxygenase-1–inhibiting substances can sometimes cause life-threatening bronchospasm, but patients can also have less severe symptoms, which often cause them to not recognize these substances as a trigger. In addition, the sensitivity to aspirin and other NSAIDs develops over time, generally after the onset of rhinosinusitis. Treatment consists of avoidance of aspirin or other NSAIDs along with typical asthma management. For patients who require aspirin use (such as those with coronary artery disease), an aspirin desensitization procedure can be performed. Successful desensitization down-regulates leukotriene receptors and modifies interleukin sensitivity, which may relieve asthma symptoms in some patients. For this reason, the addition of a leukotriene inhibitor such as montelukast or zafirlukast to an asthma maintenance regimen is helpful for most patients to modify the leukotriene dysregulation thought to contribute to the syndrome; however, addition of a leukotriene inhibitor alone would not be the appropriate next step for this patient.
24-Hour esophageal pH monitoring is helpful to diagnose gastroesophageal reflux disease, but the patient has no symptoms of this; moreover, a trial of empiric proton pump inhibitor therapy would be indicated before invasive testing.
A nasal polypectomy may be helpful in the long-term management of this syndrome, but it is not the initial step.

**Bibliography**

Ledford DK, Wenzel SE, Lockey RF. Aspirin or other nonsteroidal inflammatory agent exacerbated asthma. J Allergy Clin Immunol Pract. 2014;2:653-7. PMID: 25439353 doi:10.1016/j.jaip.2014.09.009

This content was last updated in August 2018.