
### Correct Answer: C) Initiate a trial of mepolizumab therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with eosinophilic asthma with mepolizumab.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with moderate to severe uncontrolled asthma with the eosinophilic phenotype, treatment with mepolizumab can reduce emergency department visits, hospitalizations, and requirements for inhaled and oral glucocorticoids.

The most appropriate treatment is initiation of a trial of mepolizumab therapy. This patient has signs and symptoms of severe persistent asthma that is uncontrolled (more than two exacerbations per year), despite treatment with a high-dose inhaled glucocorticoid, long-acting β2-agonist, long-acting anticholinergic agent, leukotriene-receptor antagonist, and oral glucocorticoids, so her therapy should be stepped up. Biologic therapies that target atopic pathways of asthma are indicated in appropriate patients. Currently available agents are directed against either eosinophils or their products (IgE). Interleukin (IL-5) is a pro-eosinophilic cytokine that promotes eosinophil production and contributes to eosinophilic inflammation in the airways. Mepolizumab and reslizumab are monoclonal antibodies to IL-5 and both agents reduce exacerbations of severe asthma in patients who have blood eosinophil counts of 150/µL or 300/µL, respectively, or higher. Mepolizumab is administered subcutaneously every 4 weeks, whereas reslizumab is an infusion. Although these agents are expensive, patients with uncontrolled eosinophilic asthma treated with mepolizumab have reduced emergency department visits and hospitalizations, and both agents have reduced the requirement for inhaled and oral glucocorticoids. Use of these agents is contraindicated during acute asthma exacerbations.
Treatment with doxycycline is not indicated because there are no signs or symptoms of bacterial infection.
Changing from one inhaled glucocorticoid/long-acting β2-agonist to another would not be expected to have a significant effect, as the inhaled glucocorticoid dose is similar and there is no apparent difference in the efficacy of the various combinations.
Omalizumab, a humanized monoclonal antibody directed at IgE, was the first biologic agent approved by the FDA for use in asthma. Administered subcutaneously every 2 to 4 weeks, omalizumab is indicated in patients with moderate to severe persistent asthma with the following characteristics: (1) symptoms inadequately controlled with inhaled glucocorticoids, (2) evidence of allergies to perennial aeroallergens, and (3) serum IgE levels between 30 and 700 U/mL (30-700 kU/L) (normal range, 0-90 U/mL [0-90 kU/L]). Omalizumab has been shown to reduce exacerbations and emergency department visits; it is not indicated for use in patients other than those meeting these treatment parameters.

**Bibliography**

Israel E, Reddel HK. Severe and difficult-to-treat asthma in adults. N Engl J Med. 2017;377:965-976. PMID: 28877019 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1608969

This content was last updated in August 2018.