
### Correct Answer: D) Hyperbaric oxygen therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat severe carbon monoxide poisoning with hyperbaric oxygen therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Cited indications for hyperbaric oxygen therapy include loss of consciousness, ischemic cardiac changes, neurological deficits, significant metabolic acidosis, or carboxyhemoglobin level greater than 25%.

This patient should receive hyperbaric oxygen therapy. Inhaled carbon monoxide has a much higher affinity for hemoglobin binding sites than oxygen and readily forms carboxyhemoglobin, which is an ineffective oxygen transporter and results in reduced tissue oxygen content. Symptoms of carbon monoxide poisoning vary and include headache, confusion, nausea, vomiting, and, in severe cases, loss of consciousness. It is important to understand that carboxyhemoglobin does not lower oxygen saturation measured by standard pulse oximetry or reduce arterial PO2 determined by blood gas analysis. Co-oximetry, which measures carboxyhemoglobin levels, is used to make the diagnosis. She has severe carbon monoxide poisoning due to unvented combustion in a small, enclosed area. Cited indications for hyperbaric oxygen therapy include loss of consciousness, ischemic cardiac changes, neurological deficits, significant metabolic acidosis, or carboxyhemoglobin level greater than 25%. A carboxyhemoglobin level of 50% is critical and needs to be reduced as quickly as possible. Breathing 100% oxygen at normal atmospheric pressure, this patient will clear the carboxyhemoglobin with a half-life of 90 minutes, but hyperbaric oxygen therapy will lower the half-life to 30 minutes. Also, there is considerable risk of delayed neurocognitive impairment following a severe exposure such as this, and hyperbaric oxygen is believed to lower the risk of this long-term complication, although the strength of this evidence is disputed.
Maintaining the current ventilator settings of 50% oxygen or decreasing the oxygen to 30% will not clear the carboxyhemoglobin as rapidly as hyperbaric oxygen. If hyperbaric oxygen therapy is unavailable, or if the toxicity is less severe, administration of 100% oxygen is the most appropriate therapy. However, this patient has mental status changes and the carboxyhemoglobin level is 50%; hyperbaric treatment is clearly indicated.
Carbon monoxide poisoning resulting from smoke inhalation should prompt consideration of concomitant inhaled cyanide poisoning. Hydroxocobalamin effectively binds intracellular cyanide to form cyanocobalamin, which poses no harm. However, this patient's carbon monoxide poisoning is due to combustion of propane in an enclosed space, not a house fire; therefore, hydroxocobalamin is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Hampson NB, Piantadosi CA, Thom SR, Weaver LK. Practice recommendations in the diagnosis, management, and prevention of carbon monoxide poisoning. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2012;186:1095-101. PMID: 23087025 doi:10.1164/rccm.201207-1284CI

This content was last updated in August 2018.