
### Correct Answer: A) Arterial blood gas analysis 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient who has an acute exacerbation of COPD with arterial blood gas analysis.

#### **Key Point:** Arterial blood gas analysis is recommended for patients with a severe exacerbation of COPD to assess for hypercapnia and hypoxemia.

Arterial blood gas analysis is the most appropriate test for this patient with a COPD exacerbation. An exacerbation is considered mild when a change in the clinical condition is noted but no change in medication is necessary; moderate when medication changes are made; and severe if emergency department evaluation or hospitalization is required. A severe exacerbation can also be diagnosed if the patient has two of the three following symptoms: increased dyspnea, increased sputum volume, or increased sputum purulence. Studies helpful in the evaluation of a severe exacerbation may include pulse oximetry to assess oxygenation or guide oxygen therapy; a chest radiograph to rule out an alternative diagnosis; a complete blood count to identify the presence of polycythemia, anemia, or leukocytosis; a biochemical panel to assess for electrolyte and glycemic abnormalities; an electrocardiogram to evaluate for a possible cardiac comorbidity; and arterial blood gas analysis. Arterial blood gas analysis is recommended for patients with a severe exacerbation of COPD to assess for hypercapnia and hypoxemia. This information is helpful in determining site of care and the need for additional therapy such as noninvasive mechanical ventilation.
The patient has no signs or symptoms of heart failure or other cardiac disease to explain his presentation. Therefore, B-type natriuretic peptide measurement and echocardiogram are unlikely to change management at this time.
According to best practice advice from the Clinical Guidelines Committee of the American College of Physicians, patients who have a low pretest probability for pulmonary embolism (PE) using a validated clinical prediction rule (such as the Wells criteria for prediction of PE) and who meet all Pulmonary Embolism Rule-Out Criteria do not need further testing to rule out PE. Using the Wells criteria, this patient is a low risk for PE (0 points) and scores 2 points on the Pulmonary Embolism Rule-Out Criteria (fails to meet 2 criteria: age younger than 50 years and oxygen saturation greater than 94%). Additional evaluation for PE in this patient might include a D-dimer measurement as an initial test, but not an imaging study.

**Bibliography**

Qureshi H, Sharafkhaneh A, Hanania NA. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbations: latest evidence and clinical implications. Ther Adv Chronic Dis. 2014;5:212-27. PMID: 25177479 doi:10.1177/2040622314532862

This content was last updated in August 2018.