
### Correct Answer: E) Supervised weight loss program 

**Educational Objective:** Manage obesity-related asthma with a supervised weight loss program.

#### **Key Point:** Weight loss in patients with obesity-related asthma improves asthma control, lung function, and quality of life; reduces asthma medication use; and should be considered an essential part of the treatment plan.

This patient should be referred to a supervised weight loss program. He has poorly controlled asthma despite maximal medical therapy and in the absence of other factors known to exacerbate asthma (environmental triggers, uncontrolled gastroesophageal reflux disease, sinus disease, or obstructive sleep apnea). Obesity is associated with poor asthma control, and the incidence of asthma is 1.47 times greater in patients with obesity than patients without obesity. Weight loss in patients with obesity-related asthma improves asthma control, lung function, and quality of life; reduces asthma medication use; and should be considered an essential part of the treatment plan.
Addition of beclomethasone is not appropriate because this patient is already on adequate inhaled therapy and glucocorticoids; increasing the inhaled steroid dose is unlikely to be beneficial.
Between attacks and exacerbations of asthma, spirometry can be normal in patients with suspected but undiagnosed asthma. Therefore, a bronchial challenge test, such as a methacholine challenge, may be helpful for diagnosis if positive or make the diagnosis less likely if negative. Methacholine challenge testing is not necessary in this patient because spirometry confirms reversible airflow obstruction (with a 12% or greater improvement in FEV1 or FVC of 200 mL after administration of a bronchodilator), supporting a diagnosis of asthma.
Mepolizumab is a monoclonal antibody to IL-5 that has been shown to reduce asthma exacerbations in patients with difficult-to-control asthma and elevated blood eosinophil counts. This patient's eosinophil count was normal; therefore, add-on therapy with mepolizumab is not indicated.
Although omalizumab can reduce hospitalizations when added to standard therapy, it is a monoclonal antibody used for treatment of allergic asthma, and it targets elevated levels of IgE. Because this patient does not have a history of allergies and his IgE level is normal, treatment with omalizumab would not be appropriate.

**Bibliography**

Pakhale S, Baron J, Dent R, Vandemheen K, Aaron SD. Effects of weight loss on airway responsiveness in obese adults with asthma: Does weight loss lead to reversibility of asthma? Chest. 2015;147:1582-1590. PMID: 25763936 doi:10.1378/chest.14-3105

This content was last updated in August 2018.