
### Correct Answer: C) Furosemide 

**Educational Objective:** Treat heart failure in a patient with a Cheyne-Stokes breathing pattern.

#### **Key Point:** Initial treatment of central sleep apnea should target modifiable risk factors; medical optimization of heart failure has been shown to improve central sleep apnea and Cheyne-Stokes breathing and should precede other therapies for sleep apnea.

Diuresis with furosemide is the most appropriate treatment option. This patient has central sleep apnea with Cheyne-Stokes breathing in the setting of decompensated heart failure, a state of ventilatory instability. Cheyne-Stokes breathing is an abnormal respiratory pattern characterized by cyclic crescendo-decrescendo respiratory effort during sleep (and sometimes during wakefulness), in the absence of upper airway obstruction. Apnea accompanying the decrescendo effort defines central sleep apnea. The degree of central sleep apnea tends to correlate with left ventricular dysfunction. This patient has evidence on examination of volume overload (crackles and wheezing on lung exam, jugular venous distention, peripheral edema). Optimizing medical management of heart failure and improving fluid balance should precede other therapies for sleep apnea.
Adaptive servo-ventilation is a form of positive airway pressure therapy initially designed as a treatment of Cheyne-Stokes breathing. However, a large multicenter trial unexpectedly showed increased mortality in a subset of patients with systolic heart failure (left ventricular ejection fraction less than 45%) and central sleep apnea treated with adaptive servo-ventilation.
Auto-adjusting positive airway pressure is not an initial treatment for central sleep apnea. It is used to treat obstructive sleep apnea, where proprietary algorithms deliver varying pressure sufficient to prevent upper airway closure.
Supplemental oxygen is sometimes used in advanced heart failure where impaired gas exchange results in hypoxemia. This patient has preserved oxyhemoglobin saturation. Small trials have studied the use of nocturnal supplemental oxygen in the setting of central sleep apnea, with variable results. Such treatment would be premature before optimization of fluid status.

**Bibliography**

Hernandez AB, Patil SP. Pathophysiology of central sleep apneas. Sleep Breath. 2016;20:467-82. PMID: 26782104 doi:10.1007/s11325-015-1290-z

This content was last updated in August 2018.