
### Correct Answer: B) Inhaled glucocorticoid and long-acting β2-agonist 

**Educational Objective:** Treat asthma-COPD overlap syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with a history of asthma-COPD overlap syndrome should not be prescribed a long-acting β2-agonist without concurrent therapy with an inhaled glucocorticoid because of the increased risk of mortality in patients with asthma who are prescribed long-acting β2-agonist monotherapy.

The most appropriate treatment is a combination inhaled glucocorticoid and a long-acting β2-agonist. This patient has progressive symptoms, spirometry showing diminished FEV1 that partially reversed with bronchodilation, and eosinophilia. Several diagnostic terms have been used to describe patients with both asthma and COPD, most including the word overlap, but there is no universally agreed upon term or defining diagnostic features for this condition. Given her progression of symptoms, her short-acting inhaler therapy should be augmented. Although a long-acting β2-agonist is indicated in symptomatic patients with COPD and an FEV1 of less than 60% of predicted, this may not be the best treatment for a patient with asthma. Patients with asthma are at increased risk of mortality when a long-acting bronchodilator is prescribed without a controller medication. Experts recommend that patients who have an asthma-COPD overlap syndrome who are receiving a long-acting bronchodilator should ideally also be prescribed an inhaled glucocorticoid. Combination therapy seems to mitigate the excess risk of mortality observed in patients with asthma treated with long-acting β2-agonist monotherapy. Therefore, the patient should be started on a combination therapy of an inhaled glucocorticoid and a long-acting β2-agonist.
Chronic macrolide therapy can reduce the incidence of acute exacerbations but this patient has not had any exacerbations to warrant starting a macrolide.
Using a long-acting β2-agonist or a long-acting muscarinic agent/long-acting β2-agonist combination inhaler is likely not indicated for this patient with asthma-COPD overlap syndrome based on current guidelines. Long-acting bronchodilators should only be used in combination with inhaled glucocorticoids in patients with a history of asthma. Using long-acting bronchodilators alone has been linked to increased risk of asthma-related deaths.

**Bibliography**

GINA/GOLD Joint Report. 2015 asthma, COPD and asthma-COPD overlap syndrome (ACOS) [Internet] Bethesda: Global Initiative for Asthma; 2016. Available from: http://ginasthma.org/asthma-copd-and-asthma-copd-overlap-syndrome-acos/. Accessed May 1, 2018.

This content was last updated in August 2018.