
### Correct Answer: C) Pneumothorax 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose pneumothorax in a patient with lung disease in the setting of air travel.

#### **Key Point:** During air travel, pneumothorax is most likely to occur at cruising altitude in patients with bullous lung disease, particularly those with a recent exacerbation of airways disease who are, therefore, more prone to air trapping.

The most likely diagnosis is pneumothorax. An estimated 12% of in-flight medical emergencies involve a respiratory complaint. Commercial airline cabins are partially pressurized, typically to the equivalent of approximately 1400 to 2500 meters (4000 to 8000 feet) above sea level, limiting exposure to extreme hypobaric conditions. The risk of pneumothorax is therefore mitigated but it is most likely to occur at cruising altitude in patients with bullous lung disease, particularly those with a recent exacerbation of airways disease who are, therefore, more prone to air trapping. Pain is typically pleuritic; dyspnea may be present, depending upon the volume of trapped air. If tension physiology develops (hypotension, shock, altered mental status), needle thoracostomy using the on-board equipment can be life-saving. Descending to a lower altitude may also be beneficial, because cabin pressure is inversely related to the altitude of the aircraft.
Descending aortic dissection typically presents with acute, severe back pain. Although chest pain can occur, it is less common. Radiation of pain to the abdomen can occur with disruption of blood flow to the abdominal viscera. Hypertension is the most important risk factor and is present in more than half of patients with descending aortic dissection. Pulse deficits are common. However, this patient does not have a history of hypertension and has normal peripheral pulses, making a diagnosis of descending aortic dissection unlikely.
Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia is unlikely to present in this manner. Although systemic glucocorticoids increase the risk for opportunistic lung infections such as P. jirovecii pneumonia, the risk is minimal during the course of a typical prednisone burst and taper used for a COPD exacerbation. In general, those taking prednisone dosage equivalents of at least 20 mg/day for more than 3 weeks should receive P. jirovecii pneumonia prophylaxis.
Air travel increases the risk of venous thromboembolism, though the risk is higher during relative immobilization on long flights and in those with other risk factors, such as cancer. The risk of pulmonary embolism does not really increase until the flight distance becomes greater than 5000 km (3000 miles). It is unlikely that a flight duration of only 90 minutes would heighten thrombotic risk in this patient.

**Bibliography**

Nable JV, Tupe CL, Gehle BD, Brady WJ. In-flight medical emergencies during commercial travel. N Engl J Med. 2015;373:939-45. PMID: 26332548 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1409213

This content was last updated in August 2018.