
### Correct Answer: B) Evaluation for lung volume reduction surgery 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with heterogenous emphysema and significant exercise limitations for lung volume reduction surgery.

#### **Key Point:** Lung volume reduction surgery improves quality of life and survival for patients with upper-lobe predominant emphysema and significant exercise limitations.

Evaluation for lung volume reduction surgery is the most appropriate management for this patient with heterogeneous emphysema, significant exercise limitation, and poor quality of life. Lung volume reduction surgery excises areas of emphysematous lung, improves the mechanical efficiency of respiratory muscles, and increases the elastic recoil of the lungs to improve expiratory flow and reduce exacerbations. The National Emphysema Treatment Trial (NETT) demonstrated that overall, lung-volume-reduction surgery increases the chance of improved exercise capacity but does not confer a survival advantage over medical therapy. It does yield a survival advantage for patients with both predominantly upper-lobe emphysema and low base-line exercise capacity. Symptomatic improvement with the surgery appears to be durable. It is reasonable to evaluate this patient with heterogenous emphysema, poor exercise capacity, and reduced quality of life for lung volume reduction surgery.
Roflumilast is an oral selective phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitor. It is used primarily as add-on therapy in severe COPD associated with chronic bronchitis and a history of recurrent exacerbations despite other therapies; it has been shown to relieve symptoms and reduce risk and frequency of exacerbations in these individuals. However, it is not a bronchodilator, is expensive, and has not been shown to be effective in other groups of patients with COPD. It is not indicated in the treatment of primary emphysema and has not been shown to decrease exertional dyspnea and would not benefit this patient.
Although patients with chronic lung conditions can develop pulmonary hypertension, this patient had an unremarkable echocardiogram and has no evidence of pulmonary hypertension on examination. Therefore, proceeding with a right heart catheterization is unnecessary and unlikely to change management at this time.
This patient has already participated in a pulmonary rehabilitation program. Although it is helpful for patients to continue exercise, restarting a formal pulmonary rehabilitation program is unlikely to provide him with any more significant symptomatic improvement.

**Bibliography**

Ginsburg ME, Thomashow BM, Bulman WA, Jellen PA, Whippo BA, Chiuzan C, et al. The safety, efficacy, and durability of lung-volume reduction surgery: a 10-year experience. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2016;151:717-724.e1. PMID: 26670190 doi:10.1016/j.jtcvs.2015.10.095

This content was last updated in October 2020.