
### Correct Answer: D) Spirometry 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose COPD with spirometry.

#### **Key Point:** A postbronchodilator FEV1/FVC of less than 0.70 is diagnostic of airflow obstruction and is consistent with the diagnosis of COPD.

This patient's symptoms are consistent with a possible diagnosis of COPD and spirometry should be performed. Spirometric evaluation is required for the clinical diagnosis of COPD. Spirometry is warranted in any patient presenting with dyspnea, chronic cough, or sputum production. Screening for COPD with spirometry should not be performed in asymptomatic patients. For diagnosis of COPD, spirometry should be performed both before and after administration of an inhaled bronchodilator. A postbronchodilator FEV1/FVC of less than 0.70 is diagnostic of airflow obstruction that is not completely reversible with bronchodilator therapy and is consistent with a diagnosis of COPD.
Diagnostic testing for structural heart disease should be based on a thorough history and physical examination. New murmurs or a change in examination findings or symptoms in a patient with known structural heart disease should prompt further evaluation. The patient's examination is not consistent with pulmonary hypertension, heart failure, or valvular disease. Therefore, an echocardiogram is unlikely to be helpful.
In patients with a previous history of coronary artery disease and worsening cardiac symptoms, stress testing is helpful to assess for possible recurrent or progressive disease. Given this patient's cough, which would be an unusual presentation of heart disease in the absence of volume overload, a diagnosis of COPD is much more likely and should be investigated further. A cardiac stress test could be considered if his evaluation is otherwise unremarkable.
Although interstitial lung disease can present with similar symptoms, the absence of pulmonary crackles and normal chest radiograph do not support this diagnosis. Therefore, a high-resolution chest CT is currently not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Qaseem A, Wilt TJ, Weinberger SE, Hanania NA, Criner G, van der Molen T, et al; American College of Physicians. Diagnosis and management of stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a clinical practice guideline update from the American College of Physicians, American College of Chest Physicians, American Thoracic Society, and European Respiratory Society. Ann Intern Med. 2011;155:179-91. PMID: 21810710

This content was last updated in August 2018.