
### Correct Answer: D) Palliative care 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient with progressive idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis with palliative care.

#### **Key Point:** For individuals with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis who develop severe respiratory distress that has no underlying reversible cause, supportive mechanical ventilation is of little long-term benefit; in these circumstances, the focus should be on palliation of the patient's underlying dyspnea.

This patient should receive palliative care including morphine for the symptom of dyspnea. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is the most common idiopathic interstitial pneumonia. It occurs predominantly in older individuals. Prognosis is poor, and individuals diagnosed with IPF have an estimated average survival of 3 to 5 years. The most common cause of death in IPF is respiratory failure. Patients with IPF may experience an acute exacerbation of IPF, diagnosed when the chest radiograph shows new alveolar infiltrates and medical evaluation does not reveal another cause for dyspnea such as infection, heart failure, or pulmonary embolism. Despite maximal supportive care during the past 5 days, this patient has progressed and is now on the brink of respiratory failure. Lung transplantation has been shown to provide a survival advantage in select patients with IPF. This patient gives a history consistent with severe and prolonged deconditioning associated with chronic respiratory failure. She now presents with frank respiratory failure and rapid progression of IPF with an unclear trigger. Consideration for transplant typically includes a full assessment of the patient for evidence of additional organ disease and education regarding the risks and benefits of the procedure. This is best accomplished long before the development of an acute exacerbation. Because of this patient's age, functional status, and lack of previous assessment by a transplant center, lung transplantation is not a viable option for her. At this time, she remains awake and alert and is able to participate in her end-of-life decision making. Patients with this presentation and functional status do not typically respond favorably to intubation and mechanical ventilation and, as such, recommending palliative medicines and comfort measures is most appropriate.
Although high-dose glucocorticoids are often used for acute exacerbation, their efficacy remains unknown. This patient has already been treated with glucocorticoids without apparent improvement; this indicates that administration of additional glucocorticoids is not likely to be of benefit.
Albuterol is a bronchial vasodilator. Unfortunately, the limitation in patients with IPF that results in hypoxemia and dyspnea is at the level of the interstitium, and bronchial dilators have little effect on these symptoms.
For individuals who develop severe respiratory distress that has no underlying reversible cause, supportive mechanical ventilation is of little long-term benefit. Therefore, the most recent evidence-based consensus statement recommends against mechanical ventilation for individuals with acute respiratory failure due to either progression or an acute exacerbation of IPF. In these circumstances, the focus should be on palliation of the patient's underlying dyspnea.

**Bibliography**

Raghu G, Collard HR, Egan JJ, Martinez FJ, Behr J, Brown KK, et al; ATS/ERS/JRS/ALAT Committee on Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis. An official ATS/ERS/JRS/ALAT statement: idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis: evidence-based guidelines for diagnosis and management. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2011;183:788-824. PMID: 21471066 doi:10.1164/rccm.2009-040GL

This content was last updated in August 2018.