
### Correct Answer: C) High-resolution chest CT scan 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis for diffuse parenchymal lung disease.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis are at high risk for the development of diffuse parenchymal lung disease, which is the leading cause of death in these patients.

This patient should receive a high-resolution CT (HRCT) scan of the chest. She has a history of diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis and has a chronic cough and dyspnea concerning for the possibility of scleroderma-associated interstitial lung disease. The most common cause of death from scleroderma is no longer kidney disease but progressive respiratory failure due to diffuse parenchymal lung disease. Among patients with the scleroderma spectrum disorders, patients with diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis and anti-Scl antibodies have the highest risk of interstitial lung disease. The most common pathologic finding in such patients is nonspecific interstitial pneumonia (NSIP). This patient has physiologic evidence of parenchymal lung disease with a mild restrictive defect and exercise-induced oxygen desaturation. Chest radiography can often miss mild disease and in these cases more advanced imaging is required. HRCT findings associated with NSIP include peripheral and basal predominant ground-glass opacities (cellular form) that spare the subpleural areas, basal predominant septal line thickening, and traction bronchiectasis in the fibrotic form.
Results of a 6-minute walk test (6MWT) are helpful to assess disability and prognosis in chronic lung conditions. During a 6MWT, oxygen saturation, heart rate, dyspnea and fatigue level, and distance walked in 6 minutes are recorded. The 6MWT is routinely used before, during, and after pulmonary rehabilitation programs. It would not be helpful in this patient with probable interstitial lung disease.
Cardiopulmonary exercise testing is routinely performed to assess prognosis in patients being evaluated for transplantation. Patients with low oxygen consumption or a high ratio of ventilation-to-carbon dioxide production have a poor 1-year prognosis. It may also be helpful in detecting deconditioning as a cause of dyspnea of unclear cause. It would not be appropriate in this patient with known restrictive lung disease.
Patients with a pulmonary nodule or other findings suggestive of malignancy may require PET/CT. This test most commonly uses fluorodeoxyglucose as a metabolic marker to identify rapidly dividing cells such as tumor cells and, to a lesser degree, any inflammatory lesion. It has no role in the evaluation on this patient with probable interstitial lung disease.

**Bibliography**

Suliman S, Al Harash A, Roberts WN, Perez RL, Roman J. Scleroderma-related interstitial lung disease. Respir Med Case Rep. 2017;22:109-112. PMID: 28761806 doi:10.1016/j.rmcr.2017.07.007

This content was last updated in August 2018.