
### Correct Answer: D) Obtain methacholine challenge testing 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose cough-variant asthma.

#### **Key Point:** Cough-variant asthma refers to asthma in which the predominant manifestation is cough, and without other typical asthma symptoms; the diagnosis is supported by abnormal spirometry or methacholine challenge testing if spirometry is normal.

The most appropriate management is to perform methacholine challenge testing. This patient has a chronic cough with no cause identified by history or physical examination, and a normal chest radiograph. In such patients who are not taking ACE inhibitors and are not exposed to environmental irritants or tobacco smoke, the most common causes are asthma, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and rhinosinusitis. Cough-variant asthma refers to asthma in which the predominant manifestation is cough, without other typical asthma symptoms such as wheezing, breathlessness, and chest tightness. Although most patients with asthma have obstructive physiology on pulmonary function testing, in those patients with normal spirometry, methacholine challenge testing is indicated to evaluate for bronchial hyperreactivity, which supports a diagnosis of asthma. Bronchial challenge testing uses a controlled inhaled stimulus to induce bronchospasm in association with spirometry; a positive test is indicated by a drop in the measured FEV1. Methacholine is a commonly used agent that induces cholinergic bronchospasm at low concentrations in patients with asthma; levels of exhaled nitric oxide may also be elevated. Positive methacholine testing is not specific enough to diagnose asthma; therefore, patients with cough and a positive methacholine challenge must also respond clinically to treatment with asthma therapies to be considered to have cough-variant asthma.
Although an empiric trial of asthma treatment with budesonide and albuterol could be considered, expert consensus indicates that it is preferable to first establish a diagnosis to avoid making an incorrect diagnosis and prescribing unnecessary or incorrect treatment.
Esophageal manometry and 24-hour pH testing would not be appropriate because the patient has no symptoms of GERD. Current guidelines suggest an empiric trial of diet and lifestyle modification for cough due to GERD before invasive testing for the disease.
A high-resolution CT scan of the chest would be indicated in some patients with chronic cough to evaluate for interstitial lung disorders or bronchiectasis, but the chest radiograph and physical examination findings are normal and the more common condition of asthma should be excluded first.

**Bibliography**

Kahrilas PJ, Altman KW, Chang AB, Field SK, Harding SM, Lane AP, et al; CHEST Expert Cough Panel. Chronic cough due to gastroesophageal reflux in adults: CHEST Guideline and Expert Panel Report. Chest. 2016;150:1341-1360. PMID: 27614002 doi:10.1016/j.chest.2016.08.1458

This content was last updated in August 2018.