
### Correct Answer: B) Peripheral wide-bore catheter 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with shock using a peripheral wide-bore catheter.

#### **Key Point:** Peripheral wide-bore venous catheters are the preferred method for rapid intravenous administration of large amounts of fluids.

The most appropriate treatment is to insert a peripheral wide-bore catheter. This patient is in shock with several possible causes. Flow of fluid through a catheter is inversely proportional to catheter length and proportional to the radius of the catheter to the fourth power. Therefore, the highest flow rates may be achieved through shorter, large-bore catheters. Peripheral intravenous (IV) catheters are shorter and larger than catheters used for central access or peripherally inserted central catheters and can deliver high volumes of fluid rapidly. For this reason, use of larger, shorter peripheral catheters is preferred for fluid resuscitation in patients requiring emergent treatment. However, peripheral IV catheters can sometimes be difficult to insert in patients in shock, and intraosseous ports and central venous catheters are the alternatives.
Intraosseous ports provide rapid access, but this patient has osteoporosis, which is a contraindication to this method. When used, an initial dose of lidocaine is needed before infusing because pain levels are very high with initial flushes and infusion.
Subcutaneous intravenous ports are long and small bore, which makes them useful for blood draws and small-volume infusion administration but not for rapid, large-volume fluid resuscitation.
A triple-lumen central catheter is an acceptable alternative when no other intravenous access can be obtained; however, it takes longer to insert compared to a peripheral wide-bore catheter. When used, care should be taken to choose wider-bore catheters to overcome the flow restriction from longer lengths.

**Bibliography**

Khoyratty SI, Gajendragadkar PR, Polisetty K, Ward S, Skinner T, Gajendragadkar PR. Flow rates through intravenous access devices: an in vitro study. J Clin Anesth. 2016;31:101-5. PMID: 27185686 doi:10.1016/j.jclinane.2016.01.048

This content was last updated in March 2020.