
### Correct Answer: B) CT pulmonary angiography 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose pulmonary embolism as a potential trigger for acute COPD exacerbations.

#### **Key Point:** Patients who are not responding to typical therapy for COPD exacerbations should be carefully evaluated for heart failure, pneumonia, and pulmonary embolism.

This patient should undergo CT pulmonary angiography. Some COPD exacerbations thought to be of unknown cause may actually be due to other medical conditions, including a pulmonary embolism (PE). A meta-analysis suggests that the prevalence of PE in patients hospitalized for an acute COPD exacerbation is as high as 25%. Testing for PE is indicated for patients who are not responding to typical therapy for acute exacerbations unless the pretest probability for PE is unlikely. Other important entities in the differential diagnosis with high risk for mortality include heart failure and pneumonia. These entities are less likely in this patient because of the absence of fever, crackles, edema, normal chest radiograph, and normal B-type natriuretic peptide level.
Spirometry usually does not change management during an acute exacerbation. In addition, the patient may not be able to complete the testing given his symptoms and the increased work of breathing.
Evaluation for influenza may be useful in patients who present with compatible symptoms, including fever, headache, myalgia, pharyngeal irritation, and respiratory symptoms (nonproductive cough and nasal discharge), particularly during an influenza outbreak. During a confirmed local influenza outbreak, infection can be reliably diagnosed on the basis of clinical criteria alone. When confirmation is needed, polymerase chain reaction testing can be performed. Testing for influenza in this patient is not necessary in the absence of influenza symptoms.
Similarly, a sputum culture is usually not indicated as it infrequently changes management of COPD. An antibiotic is often added because infections are the most common triggers for an acute exacerbation.

**Bibliography**

Aleva FE, Voets LWLM, Simons SO, de Mast Q, van der Ven AJAM, Heijdra YF. Prevalence and localization of pulmonary embolism in unexplained acute exacerbations of COPD: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Chest. 2017;151:544-554. PMID: 27522956 doi:10.1016/j.chest.2016.07.034

This content was last updated in October 2020.