
### Correct Answer: C) Surgical wedge resection 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a solitary pulmonary nodule in a patient at high risk for malignancy.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with a solid indeterminate lung nodule larger than 8 mm and high probability of malignancy should be staged using a PET/CT scan followed by definitive management.

Definitive treatment is recommended for this patient and, therefore, a surgical wedge resection is appropriate. She has several risk factors for malignancy, including age, size of the nodule, upper-lobe location of the nodule, smoking history, and history of malignancy. In addition, the PET/CT scan showed fludeoxyglucose avidity, confirming the high probability of malignancy but without evidence of distant metastasis. As with subcentimeter nodules, the availability of previous imaging of the chest to assess the stability or growth of these lesions is helpful. An enlarging or new pulmonary nodule warrants more aggressive evaluation with tissue diagnosis or excision depending on the nodule's pretest probability of malignancy. The first step when evaluating a solid pulmonary nodule that is larger than 8 mm is to estimate the probability of malignancy. This can be done either clinically or using quantitative models and should place the patient in one of three categories: low probability (less than 5%), intermediate probability (5% to 65%), or high probability (greater than 65%). This is most useful when nodules are 8-30 mm. If the lesion is larger than 30 mm, the likelihood of malignancy is so high that it typically is resected; in contrast, when the lesion is smaller than 8 mm, the likelihood of malignancy is low and the patient should undergo routine radiological surveillance with serial CT scans.
Biopsy of the nodule or a transthoracic approach is preferred when the probability of malignancy is intermediate (5% to 65%) and would not be appropriate for this patient with a hypermetabolic nodule on PET/CT scan suggesting a high probability of malignancy. Furthermore, the sampling procedure is chosen according to size and location of the nodule, availability, and local expertise. Typically, peripheral nodules are sampled using CT-guided transthoracic needle aspiration, and more central lesions are sampled using bronchoscopic techniques. This lesion is described as peripheral.
Radiologic surveillance with serial CT scans is preferred if the probability of malignancy is low (less than 5%).
This patient's lung nodule is highly suspicious for malignancy on CT/PET scan so sampling with CT-guided transthoracic needle aspiration is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Gould MK, Donington J, Lynch WR, Mazzone PJ, Midthun DE, Naidich DP, et al. Evaluation of individuals with pulmonary nodules: When is it lung cancer? Diagnosis and management of lung cancer, 3rd ed: American College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. Chest. 2013;143:e93S-e120S. PMID: 23649456 doi:10.1378/chest.12-2351

This content was last updated in August 2018.