
### Correct Answer: A) Asbestosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose a patient with asbestosis.

#### **Key Point:** Parietal plaques are the most common radiologic finding in patients with asbestos exposure and are the features that differentiate asbestosis from other interstitial lung diseases.

The most likely diagnosis is asbestosis. Asbestosis refers to the pneumoconiosis caused by inhalation of asbestos fibers. Asbestos is a silicate mineral fiber previously used as an insulating material that is a major cause of lung disease. Workers in construction, naval shipyards, and the automotive service industries are particularly at risk for asbestosis, with duration and extent of exposure being the key risk factors for the development of disease. Although asbestos use in the United States has been virtually eliminated since its peak in the 1980s, asbestos-related diseases will persist well into this century owing to the long latency period between exposure and disease development (15 to 35 years). Parietal pleural plaques are the most common finding and differentiate asbestos-induced parenchymal disease from other interstitial lung diseases. Diffuse parenchymal lung disease (DPLD) due to asbestos is related to the extent of the fiber burden. The most common symptom is exertional dyspnea; cough and sputum production are unusual unless the patient is a cigarette smoker. The CT scan imaging of pleural plaques and DPLD combined with the exposure history is adequate to make the diagnosis of asbestosis.
Chronic forms of hypersensitivity pneumonitis are believed to be associated with more chronic low-level exposures to inhaled antigen. This patient's hobby is wood working and wood dust is a potential source of antigen exposure. Patients with chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis will ultimately present with cough, dyspnea, malaise, and weight loss. High-resolution CT findings include centrilobular micronodules in upper-lung and midlung distribution, as well as evidence of septal line thickening and fibrosis. Pleural plaques are not found. This patient's symptoms and CT findings are not compatible with this diagnosis.
Although this patient has some CT scan findings consistent with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, that diagnosis can only be made in a patient who does not have another plausible cause for fibrosis. In addition, the finding of pleural plaques makes idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis unlikely.
Respiratory bronchiolitis–associated DPLD is a disease in active smokers who have imaging findings of centrilobular micronodules. The patient's negative smoking history and presence of pleural plaques on imaging excludes this diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Fishwick D, Barber CM. Non-malignant asbestos-related diseases: a clinical view. Clin Med (Lond). 2014;14:68-71. PMID: 24532750 doi:10.7861/clinmedicine.14-1-68

This content was last updated in August 2018.