
### Correct Answer: B) Magnesium sulfate, intravenously 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient for an acute asthma exacerbation with magnesium sulfate.

#### **Key Point:** Intravenous magnesium sulfate reduces hospital admissions and improves lung function in adults with acute asthma who have not responded sufficiently to oxygen, nebulized short-acting β2-agonists, and intravenous glucocorticoids.

The most appropriate treatment is a single dose of magnesium sulfate. This patient is experiencing an acute asthma exacerbation. Treatment of acute asthma exacerbations can be difficult and requires prompt, aggressive management. The cornerstone of therapy in severe acute asthma exacerbation includes early administration of several doses of a short-acting β2-agonist (SABA), a short-acting muscarinic antagonist (SAMA), and oral or intravenous glucocorticoids. In patients with a moderate to severe asthma exacerbation, combination therapy with a SAMA/SABA has been shown to reduce hospitalizations and improve lung function compared to SABA alone. Although use of a SAMA is not FDA-approved for treatment of an acute asthma exacerbation, several trials have demonstrated efficacy in both children and adults, and its use is supported by guidelines. Magnesium sulfate administration should also be considered early in the course of severe asthma exacerbation given its ability to relax bronchial smooth muscle tissue. A 2014 systematic review concluded that a single intravenous infusion of 1.2 g or 2 g of magnesium sulfate over 15 to 30 minutes reduces hospital admissions and improves lung function in adults with acute asthma who have not responded sufficiently to oxygen, nebulized SABAs and intravenous glucocorticoids.
Despite the theoretical bronchodilatory effect of intravenous ketamine, two randomized controlled trials have failed to demonstrate added bronchodilator effects when ketamine was compared to conventional management of asthma exacerbation.
Adjunct therapies such as a long-acting β2-agonist, montelukast sodium, and theophylline have not demonstrated therapeutic benefit when used in the treatment of an acute asthma exacerbation and are not appropriate choices for this patient. However, their efficacy as long-term options in the outpatient setting should be considered in the overall treatment of asthma once the patient has been stabilized and is ready for hospital discharge.

**Bibliography**

Albertson TE, Sutter ME, Chan AL. The acute management of asthma. Clin Rev Allergy Immunol. 2015;48:114-25. PMID: 25213370 doi:10.1007/s12016-014-8448-5

This content was last updated in August 2018.