
### Correct Answer: B) Hydrocortisone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat septic shock that persists after adequate fluid resuscitation using glucocorticoids.

#### **Key Point:** Glucocorticoids are indicated in patients with sepsis who have not achieved hemodynamic stability from intravenous fluid administration and vasopressor therapies.

Hydrocortisone is the most appropriate treatment. There is controversy about the role of glucocorticoids in the treatment of septic shock, but the Surviving Sepsis Guidelines published in 2016 recommend that if glucocorticoids are used, they should be used in refractory shock with persistent hypotension after adequate fluid resuscitation and after vasopressor medications have been titrated to high dose, and that the dose should be no more than 200 mg of hydrocortisone in 24 hours.
It is unlikely that substituting norepinephrine with another catecholamine vasopressor (dopamine) will lead to increased blood pressure. Dopamine also has a higher risk of inducing cardiac arrhythmias, and in this elderly patient who already has sinus tachycardia and frequent ectopic beats, dopamine would be an inappropriate substitution. Dopamine might best be reserved for selected patients with hypoperfusion and relative bradycardia.
Vasopressin levels in septic shock have been reported to be lower than anticipated for a shock state. Low doses of vasopressin may be effective in raising blood pressure in shock refractory to other vasopressors. Guidelines suggest adding vasopressin (up to 0.03 U/min) to norepinephrine with the intent of raising blood pressure to target or to decrease norepinephrine dosage. Vasopressin is not titrated like other pressors. Higher doses of vasopressin lead to ischemic complications, which more than offset any hemodynamic benefit.
Guidelines currently recommend against the use of intravenous (IV) immunoglobulins in patients with sepsis or septic shock. The most recent systematic review and meta-analysis differentiated between standard polyclonal IV immunoglobulins and M-enriched polyclonal immunoglobulin. Studies included in the review had low to moderate certainty of results based on risk of bias and heterogeneity. After excluding low-quality trials, no survival benefit was discernable with either immune globulin preparation.

**Bibliography**

Rhodes A, Evans LE, Alhazzani W, Levy MM, Antonelli M, Ferrer R, et al. Surviving Sepsis Campaign: international guidelines for management of sepsis and septic shock: 2016. Intensive Care Med. 2017;43:304-377. PMID: 28101605 doi:10.1007/s00134-017-4683-6

This content was last updated in August 2018.