
### Correct Answer: C) Malignant pleural mesothelioma 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose malignant pleural mesothelioma.

#### **Key Point:** Asbestos exposure is the primary risk factor for malignant pleural mesothelioma, and patients most commonly present with symptoms of chest pain and a slowly enlarging pleural effusion.

The most likely diagnosis is malignant pleural mesothelioma. Asbestos exposure is the primary risk factor for mesothelioma, which has a latency period of 20 to 40 years, and this patient likely has a history of asbestos exposure from working as a brake mechanic. Occupational exposure to asbestos is most common in miners, electricians, plumbers, brake mechanics, shipyard workers, home remodelers, and selected military personnel. Patients most commonly present with symptoms of chest pain and a slowly enlarging pleural effusion. Chest imaging typically shows a unilateral pleural effusion, but patients can also present with pleural thickening, calcification, nodules, or masses. If malignant pleural mesothelioma is suspected, a thoracentesis should be performed, including pleural fluid cytology. Additional evaluation includes a chest CT scan to determine the extent of disease and evaluate for pleural lesions. Confirmation of the diagnosis requires pleural biopsy. Video-assisted thoracoscopic biopsy or open thoracotomy is required when the diagnosis remains uncertain, as diagnosis of mesothelioma cannot be made using cytology alone.
Empyema often presents with unilateral loculated exudative pleural effusion; however, the patient would not have a 6-month history of symptoms in the absence of fever and with a normal complete blood count. Finally, the pleural fluid characteristics are not consistent with empyema (typically pleural fluid pH less than 7.2, purulent effusion, or positive Gram stain).
Although cough, dyspnea, and pleural effusion could occur in patients with heart failure, the lack of physical examination findings consistent with volume overload and findings of a serosanguineous exudative effusion on thoracentesis would not be consistent with a diagnosis of heart failure (transudative effusion).
Rheumatoid pleuritis would also present with an exudative pleural effusion, but the patient has no other signs or symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis.

**Bibliography**

Scherpereel A, Astoul P, Baas P, Berghmans T, Clayson H, de Vuyst P, et al; European Respiratory Society/European Society of Thoracic Surgeons Task Force. Guidelines of the European Respiratory Society and the European Society of Thoracic Surgeons for the management of malignant pleural mesothelioma. Eur Respir J. 2010;35:479-95. PMID: 19717482 doi:10.1183/09031936.00063109

This content was last updated in August 2018.