
### Correct Answer: B) Home sleep testing 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient for obstructive sleep apnea.

#### **Key Point:** Home sleep testing is the first test indicated in a patient with a high probability of obstructive sleep apnea without underlying cardiopulmonary or neuromuscular disease.

The most appropriate next step is home sleep testing. This patient has signs (loud snoring, breathing pauses, gasping), symptoms (excessive daytime sleepiness, nocturia), and physical examination findings (BMI greater than 30, large neck size, crowded oropharynx, a low-lying soft palate) consistent with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Home sleep testing is the preferred diagnostic test when there is a high likelihood of OSA and an absence of significant comorbidities such as cardiopulmonary or neuromuscular disease. If OSA is confirmed, daytime sleepiness represents a strong indication for treatment. Polysomnography performed in a sleep laboratory is the preferred diagnostic test for OSA in patients with underlying cardiopulmonary or neuromuscular disease who might require advanced positive airway pressure modes (such as bilevel positive airway pressure) or supplemental oxygen but would not be indicated for this patient who has no evidence of such comorbidities.
Objective testing should occur before treatment of OSA is prescribed. Auto-adjusting positive airway pressure generally follows home sleep testing that confirms OSA.
Occasionally, multiple sleep latency testing (MSLT) is used to provide an objective measure of sleepiness. MSLT requires a series of brief nap opportunities during the course of a full day in a sleep laboratory to determine the average time to fall asleep and is time and labor intensive; however, it is necessary to establish the diagnoses of narcolepsy and idiopathic hypersomnia. A mean sleep latency of less than 5 minutes is a clear indicator of pathologic sleepiness, whereas more than 15 minutes is considered normal. If these additional sleep disorders were suspected in a patient with obstructive sleep apnea, MSLT would occur only after positive airway pressure treatment has been optimized.
There is no established role for overnight pulse oximetry as a screening or diagnostic tool in OSA. With limited sensitivity and specificity in the symptomatic patient with a high pretest probability of OSA, overnight oximetry is not likely to add diagnostic information beyond home sleep testing, nor will it alter the decision to treat.

**Bibliography**

Kapur VK, Auckley DH, Chowdhuri S, Kuhlmann DC, Mehra R, Ramar K, et al. Clinical practice guideline for diagnostic testing for adult obstructive sleep apnea: an American Academy of Sleep Medicine clinical practice guideline. J Clin Sleep Med. 2017;13:479-504. PMID: 28162150 doi:10.5664/jcsm.6506

This content was last updated in August 2018.