
### Correct Answer: C) Short-acting bronchodilator 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with newly diagnosed mild COPD.

#### **Key Point:** Patients whose symptoms and spirometry are consistent with mild COPD can begin treatment with a short-acting bronchodilator as needed.

The most appropriate treatment is a short-acting bronchodilator. Two commonly used, evidence-based treatment schemes are available to guide therapy. The American College of Physicians, American College of Chest Physicians, American Thoracic Society, and European Respiratory Society classification and treatment scheme for stable COPD recommends an inhaled short-acting bronchodilator (anticholinergic or β2-agonist) for patients with an FEV1 between 60% and 80% of predicted. The Global Strategy for Diagnosis, Management and Prevention of COPD (GOLD) classification model allows for therapy for COPD based on spirometry, risk, and symptoms. According to the GOLD classification scheme, this patient is in group A (low risk, few symptoms, documented mild airflow obstruction with one or no exacerbations per year). Like the previous guideline, GOLD recommends a short-acting bronchodilator or a combination of short-acting bronchodilators.
Roflumilast is a phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE-4) inhibitor used as add-on therapy to reduce exacerbations in patients with severe COPD associated with chronic bronchitis and a history of recurrent exacerbations despite other therapies. Inhibition of PDE-4 decreases inflammation, which may be helpful in a limited number of patients with COPD in whom inflammation is a significant factor. Roflumilast has minimal bronchodilator activity and should always be used with at least one long-acting bronchodilator. This patient has no indication for roflumilast therapy and it should not be used as monotherapy.
If the patient's symptoms and airflow obstruction progress, both guidelines recommend the addition of a long-acting bronchodilator (either a long-acting β2-agonist or long-acting muscarinic agent). If symptoms persist, either an inhaled glucocorticoid or long-acting muscarinic agent can be added to the regimen.
Because this patient has mild disease with minimal symptoms, it is not necessary to start an inhaled glucocorticoid at this time. Short prednisone bursts are used to treat patients with acute exacerbations but are not indicated for the management of mild chronic symptoms related to COPD.

**Bibliography**

Qaseem A, Wilt TJ, Weinberger SE, Hanania NA, Criner G, van der Molen T, et al; American College of Physicians. Diagnosis and management of stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a clinical practice guideline update from the American College of Physicians, American College of Chest Physicians, American Thoracic Society, and European Respiratory Society. Ann Intern Med. 2011;155:179-91. PMID: 21810710

This content was last updated in August 2018.