
### Correct Answer: A) Bilevel positive airway pressure 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with chronic hypoventilation due to neuromuscular disease with noninvasive ventilation.

#### **Key Point:** Assisted breathing devices, such as bilevel positive airway pressure, can be prescribed to support gas exchange in patients with neuromuscular disorders and may prolong survival in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Bilevel positive airway pressure is the most appropriate next step in management. This patient has chronic hypoventilation due to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), as indicated by the elevated arterial Pco2 and a complicating metabolic alkalosis, resulting in a normal pH on blood gas testing. ALS is marked by hypoventilation during sleep and may be exacerbated by acute illness and anesthesia. Bilevel positive airway pressure therapy augments ventilation by providing pressure support, improves quality of life, and may prolong survival in patients with ALS. Ventilatory support should be started in the presence of respiratory symptoms or hypercarbia. It also is essential to discuss prognosis and establish goals of care with patients and families, thereby avoiding unnecessary diagnostic and therapeutic measures.
Continuous positive airway pressure is designed to maintain upper airway patency in obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and would not be appropriate ventilatory support in the setting of chronic respiratory failure due to hypoventilation.
Hypoglossal nerve stimulation is a treatment of OSA that activates the tongue muscles to increase upper airway caliber and prevent collapse. It has no effect on the respiratory pump muscles weakened by ALS.
Supplemental oxygen should generally not be prescribed for patients with hypoventilation due to neuromuscular disease without adjunctive ventilatory support because supplemental oxygen may further impair ventilation in patients with respiratory muscle weakness.
Tracheostomy may be appropriate for some patients with advanced respiratory failure due to neuromuscular disease, particularly those who experience difficulty in managing secretions or who require support during the waking hours. However, this patient is not yet affected by those issues, and noninvasive therapy should be the initial choice.

**Bibliography**

Radunovic A, Annane D, Rafiq MK, Brassington R, Mustfa N. Mechanical ventilation for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/motor neuron disease. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2017;10:CD004427. PMID: 28982219 doi:10.1002/14651858.CD004427.pub4

This content was last updated in October 2020.