
### Correct Answer: C) Smoking 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent recurrent spontaneous pneumothorax with smoking cessation.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with a primary spontaneous pneumothorax should be encouraged to stop smoking to prevent recurrence.

Smoking cessation is the most effective measure to prevent recurrent pneumothorax. This patient has a primary spontaneous pneumothorax (PSP) (air in the pleural space in someone without underlying lung disease). Cigarette smoking is a significant risk factor for PSP, likely because of airway inflammation. The lifetime risk of pneumothorax for men who are lifelong heavy smokers is 12%, compared to 0.1% for men who have never smoked. Because of the strong association between smoking and occurrence of PSP, smoking cessation may help prevent recurrence. Other risk factors for PSP are family history of PSP and thoracic endometriosis. PSP usually develops when the patient is at rest, and presenting patients are typically in their early 20s. Symptoms include the sudden onset of dyspnea and pleuritic chest pain. Recurrence is estimated at 23% to 50% during the first 5 years. Interventions to prevent recurrence includes chemical and mechanical pleurodesis, which are recommended after the second occurrence of PSP on the ipsilateral side, or first occurrence if the patient has a high-risk occupation such as deep sea diver or airplane pilot.
Air travel should be discouraged until resolution of the pneumothorax, but it is not in itself a risk factor for developing a pneumothorax.
There is no association between mountain climbing and development of a pneumothorax.
There is no association between the onset of pneumothorax and physical activity, with the occurrence being as likely when the patient is sedentary as when active.

**Bibliography**

MacDuff A, Arnold A, Harvey J; BTS Pleural Disease Guideline Group. Management of spontaneous pneumothorax: British Thoracic Society Pleural Disease Guideline 2010. Thorax. 2010;65 Suppl 2:ii18-31. PMID: 20696690 doi:10.1136/thx.2010.136986

This content was last updated in August 2018.