
### Correct Answer: D) Cystic fibrosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose an adult with cystic fibrosis.

#### **Key Point:** Conditions suggesting the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis in adults include chronic asthma-like symptoms, chronic sinusitis, nasal polyposis, recurrent pancreatitis, infertility, and bronchiectasis.

The most likely underlying diagnosis is cystic fibrosis. This patient has acute symptoms of increased cough, sputum production, fever, chills, wheezing, dyspnea, clubbing, and a chest radiograph (shown) with bilateral upper-lobe predominant bronchiectasis with mucoid impaction (arrows), as well as a history of chronic pulmonary and gastrointestinal disease. This constellation of signs and symptoms is most consistent with an acute exacerbation of bronchiectasis in a patient with cystic fibrosis.
Common variable immunodeficiency involves B- and T-cell abnormalities and results in clinically significant immune dysregulation. The primary manifestation is hypogammaglobulinemia, and adults present with recurrent respiratory infections. The gastrointestinal tract is frequently involved with malabsorption or chronic diarrhea. The diagnosis is made by confirming low levels of total IgG and IgA or IgM, as well as by a poor antibody response to vaccines. The patient's normal serum immunoglobulin levels exclude this diagnosis.
The most common of the early complement disorders is C2 deficiency; C6 deficiency is the most common of the late complement disorders. Patients lacking one of the early components usually present with a rheumatologic disorder. Those with late complement component deficiencies usually present with recurrent, invasive meningococcal or gonococcal infections. The patient's history and findings are not consistent with either early or late complement component deficiency.
Although the patient has obstruction on pulmonary function testing, her age and history of chronic sinus and gastrointestinal disease make a diagnosis of COPD less likely than cystic fibrosis.

**Bibliography**

Nick JA, Nichols DP. Diagnosis of adult patients with cystic fibrosis. Clin Chest Med. 2016;37:47-57. PMID: 26857767 doi:10.1016/j.ccm.2015.11.006

This content was last updated in August 2018.