
### Correct Answer: A) Azithromycin and prednisone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with an acute exacerbation of COPD.

#### **Key Point:** An exacerbation of COPD is defined as a sustained worsening of symptoms, typically cough, dyspnea, and sputum production; standard treatment of moderate to severe exacerbations includes antibiotics and oral glucocorticoids.

The most appropriate treatment of the COPD exacerbation in this patient is azithromycin and prednisone. Exacerbations are marked by increased breathlessness and are usually accompanied by increased cough and sputum production. The degree of exacerbation is considered mild when a change in the clinical condition is noted but no change in medication is necessary. An exacerbation is considered moderate when medication changes are made. A severe exacerbation results in hospitalization. Short-acting bronchodilator therapy is a mainstay of therapy for treating COPD exacerbation. Glucocorticoids, such as prednisone, have been shown to reduce recovery time, improve lung function and arterial hypoxemia, decrease risk of early relapse, decrease treatment failure, and decrease length of hospital stay. Guidelines recommend 40 mg of prednisone or an oral equivalent for 5 to 7 days. The most recent Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease report recommends that antibiotics should be considered in patients with moderate or severe COPD and symptoms of increased dyspnea, increased sputum, and sputum purulence. Recent studies in patients with moderate COPD have demonstrated improved patient outcomes. Commonly used regimens include an advanced macrolide (such as azithromycin), a cephalosporin, or doxycycline.
This patient's COPD appears to be well-controlled at baseline, so the addition of an inhaled glucocorticoid such as mometasone is not indicated for long-term COPD management. An inhaled glucocorticoid is not an effective treatment of an exacerbation of COPD.
Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) has a significant role in the management of patients with very severe COPD during an acute exacerbation and may be helpful to avoid intubation. NIPPV is strongly recommended in patients with acute COPD exacerbations who have respiratory acidosis. This patient does not have an indication for NIPPV.
Although roflumilast has been shown to decrease the frequency of recurrent exacerbations, there is no role for this agent in the treatment of an acute exacerbation. As this is a first exacerbation of COPD, chronic roflumilast therapy is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Holden V, Slack III D, McCurdy MT, Shah NG. Diagnosis and management of acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Emerg Med Pract. 2017;19:1-24. PMID: 28926214

This content was last updated in August 2018.