
### Correct Answer: D) Supplemental oxygen 

**Educational Objective:** Treat pulmonary hypertension secondary to chronic hypoxemia.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with pulmonary hypertension secondary to lung disease and associated hypoxemia should be treated with supplemental oxygen.

The most appropriate treatment is supplemental oxygen. The clinical assessment and echocardiographic findings are consistent with pulmonary hypertension in the setting of advanced COPD (Group 3 pulmonary hypertension [PH]). The mainstay of treatment of Group 3 PH targets the underlying lung disease. This patient is on maximal inhaler therapy for COPD. Hypoxemia during daytime rest and, in the setting of cor pulmonale or secondary polycythemia, hypoxemia during sleep, is an indication for supplemental oxygen, which has proved benefit in pulmonary hemodynamics and survival in this population.
Bilevel positive airway pressure is indicated in patients with hypercapnia in the setting of COPD. Furthermore, in patients with overlap of COPD and sleep disordered breathing, continuous positive airway pressure has been shown to increase quality of life and prolong survival. The arterial blood gas study shows this patient to be normocapnic, and polysomnography demonstrates hypoxemia but no sleep apnea. Therefore, positive airway pressure therapy is not indicated.
A short course of prednisone is indicated in acute exacerbations of COPD, which typically present with acute dyspnea, cough, and sputum production. The more insidious course of this patient's symptoms is not consistent with an acute exacerbation of COPD, and there is no role for systemic glucocorticoids in patients with PH due to COPD.
Therapy with a vasodilator such as sildenafil is generally not indicated in patients with pulmonary hypertension related to lung disease or hypoxemia. Such drugs may cause harm by worsening ventilation-perfusion matching and further impairing gas exchange.

**Bibliography**

Continuous or nocturnal oxygen therapy in hypoxemic chronic obstructive lung disease: a clinical trial. Nocturnal Oxygen Therapy Trial Group. Ann Intern Med. 1980;93:391-8. PMID: 6776858

This content was last updated in August 2018.