
### Correct Answer: A) Bosentan 

**Educational Objective:** Treat pulmonary arterial hypertension.

#### **Key Point:** Before administering advance therapy for patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), particularly idiopathic PAH, vasoreactivity testing directs agent selection by identifying those who may respond to calcium channel blockers.

The most appropriate treatment is bosentan. This patient has pulmonary hypertension most consistent with Group 1 (pulmonary arterial hypertension [PAH]), based upon the right heart catheterization demonstrating high pulmonary arterial pressures in the absence of left-sided heart failure, lung disease, and venous thromboembolic disease. Before administering advanced therapy for patients with PAH, vasoreactivity testing with nitric oxide is performed to identify those who may respond to calcium channel blockers (CCBs). CCBs are desirable therapy because they are less expensive and have fewer side effects than other forms of advanced therapy. Failure to achieve a favorable hemodynamic response with nitric oxide predicts unresponsiveness to CCBs and the need for other advanced therapy. The endothelin receptor antagonist bosentan is one of many oral pulmonary vasoactive drugs that is indicated in PAH in patients with negative vasoreactivity testing, such as this patient, some of which have been shown to increase exercise capacity and improve echocardiographic parameters.
CCBs such as diltiazem may be used in the setting of PAH when a response to a vasodilator such as nitric oxide is demonstrated during right heart catheterization. When a response is not found, CCBs are not indicated.
β-Blockers such as metoprolol do not have a proved role specific to PAH, though they might be used as an adjunct agent for supraventricular tachyarrhythmias that are common in this population.
Pirfenidone is an antifibrotic agent indicated for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Pulmonary hypertension is frequently observed in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, but pirfenidone would not be indicated for a patient with PAH without idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

**Bibliography**

Galiè N, Humbert M, Vachiery JL, Gibbs S, Lang I, Torbicki A, et al. 2015 ESC/ERS Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of pulmonary hypertension: The Joint Task Force for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Pulmonary Hypertension of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) and the European Respiratory Society (ERS): Endorsed by: Association for European Paediatric and Congenital Cardiology (AEPC), International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation (ISHLT). Eur Respir J. 2015;46:903-75. PMID: 26318161 doi:10.1183/13993003.01032-2015

This content was last updated in August 2018.