
### Correct Answer: C) Review employer Material Safety Data Sheet 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient for occupational exposure using a Material Safety Data Sheet.

#### **Key Point:** When an occupational lung disease is being considered, clinicians should request a Material Safety Data Sheet detailing chemical properties and known health risks associated with substances within the workplace.

The most appropriate management is to review the employer Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS). This patient is concerned that an occupational exposure is causing new respiratory symptoms and potentially may worsen her asthma control. When an occupational lung disease is being considered, clinicians should request the MSDS, which details chemical properties and known health risks associated with substances within the workplace. The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) requires that this information is available upon request for employees who work with potentially harmful materials. Establishing a clear causal link between this patient's symptoms of asthma and an occupational exposure is essential in diagnosis and management. Her history suggests a temporal relationship between the introduction of the new chemical and her cough. In addition, she feels the need to use her albuterol inhaler after exposure. Examples of known respiratory irritants include chlorine gas and sulfur dioxide, which are triggers of bronchospasm. Toluene diisocyanate is associated with allergic sensitization, cough, and bronchospasm that can develop weeks or months after initial exposure. Additional evaluation for occupational illness can include peak flow meter measurements before and after exposure, bronchoprovocation testing after prolonged time away from work and return to work, and, in select cases, specific inhalational challenges.
A chest CT scan is usually not needed for the evaluation of a patient with suspected occupational asthma. Exceptions to this rule include patients with abnormal chest radiography or suspected hypersensitivity pneumonitis. This patient has a normal lung examination, normal spirometry, and no symptoms compatible with acute hypersensitivity pneumonitis (fevers, flulike symptoms, cough, and shortness of breath). This patient has no indication for advanced imaging.
Although several commercial entities offer testing of hair samples for toxic chemicals, this testing is expensive, unlikely to be covered by insurance, and of questionable validity. It is, therefore, not recommended in the assessment of occupational exposure by primary care internists.
Supporting a patient's request to transfer work areas related to a health concern should be based on sound clinical assessment and judgment. A clinician's initial assessment should establish the presence of an occupational illness by assessing exposures, including known chemicals in the workplace, and establishing a temporal relationship between the introduction of the new chemical and symptoms.

**Bibliography**

Friedman-Jimenez G, Harrison D, Luo H. Occupational asthma and work-exacerbated asthma. Semin Respir Crit Care Med. 2015;36:388-407. PMID: 26024347 doi:10.1055/s-0035-1550157

This content was last updated in August 2018.