
### Correct Answer: B) Administer intravenous antibiotics 

**Educational Objective:** Treat pneumonia in a patient with inhalational injury.

#### **Key Point:** Secondary respiratory infections are common in patients with inhalational injuries, especially from Staphylococcus and Pseudomonas species, and are a major cause of morbidity and mortality.

Administration of empiric intravenous antibiotics for presumed pneumonia is the most appropriate treatment. This patient suffered an inhalational injury as a result of her exposure to a house fire. Common acute complications of inhalational injury include systemic toxicity from carbon monoxide and hydrogen cyanide, upper airway obstruction from pharyngeal edema, mucosal sloughing, bronchial cast formation, bronchoconstriction, pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome, and pulmonary edema. The most common complication following smoke inhalation injuries is pneumonia. Inhalational injury increases the risk for respiratory infections, especially from Staphylococcus and Pseudomonas species, because of several mechanisms, including impaired pulmonary macrophage activity, direct injury to the airway cilia and tracheobronchial mucosal epithelium, and impaired surfactant production. Although the patient is only borderline febrile, her increasing leukocyte count and the presence of a focal consolidation in her left lower lobe on chest radiograph increase the index of suspicion for pneumonia.
Acute cyanide poisoning primarily occurs through fire and occupational exposures. Although no reliable test for cyanide poisoning exists, patients suspected of cyanide poisoning should receive hydroxocobalamin. Because this patient's inhalational exposure occurred 3 weeks ago, it is unlikely that her acute respiratory failure is due to cyanide poisoning. Thus, hydroxocobalamin is not indicated.
Tracheobronchial stenosis is an infrequent but real complication of inhalational injury. However, it most commonly occurs several months postexposure. The patient's recent normal airway inspection also suggests stenosis is a less likely cause of her respiratory decline. Other long-term complications following smoke inhalation include vocal cord fixation, airway polyps, persistent dysphonia, bronchiolitis obliterans, and bronchiectasis.
Common indications for thoracostomy tube placement include empyema or pneumothorax. Although pneumothorax should be considered in a patient with acute respiratory failure, there is no pneumothorax on this patient's radiograph. A thoracentesis is indicated for any new unexplained pleural effusion. Observation and initiation of therapy without diagnostic thoracentesis is reasonable in the setting of a small parapneumonic effusion, as is seen in the left base of this patient's radiograph. If an empyema or other small fluid collection requires evaluation, the initial investigation with needle thoracentesis is generally indicated before consideration of thoracostomy tube placement.

**Bibliography**

Walker PF, Buehner MF, Wood LA, Boyer NL, Driscoll IR, Lundy JB, et al. Diagnosis and management of inhalation injury: an updated review. Crit Care. 2015;19:351. PMID: 26507130 doi:10.1186/s13054-015-1077-4

This content was last updated in August 2018.