
### Correct Answer: A) Chest CT scans every 2 years for 5 years 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a subsolid solitary pulmonary nodule.

#### **Key Point:** Subsolid lung nodules 6-8 mm in size should be initially followed up at 6-12 months and then every 2 years for 5 years because of the slow rate of growth if such masses are malignant.

The most appropriate management of the pulmonary nodule is to perform follow-up chest CT scanning at 6-12 months and then every 2 years for 5 years, as recommended by the Fleischner Society Guidelines. Nodules are classified as solid or subsolid. Subsolid nodules are either pure ground-glass nodules (no solid component) or part-solid nodules (both ground-glass and solid components). A ground-glass nodule is defined as a focal area of increased attenuation in the lung through which normal parenchymal structures can still be seen. The classification of nodules helps in the assessment of malignant potential (for example, adenocarcinoma is more likely to present as a subsolid and part-solid nodule) and guides appropriate follow-up. This patient has a solitary pure ground-glass subsolid nodule that is larger than 6 mm. Earlier guidelines recommended initial follow-up at 3 months, but this was changed to 6-12 months because earlier follow-up is unlikely to affect the outcome of these characteristically indolent lesions. The average doubling time of subsolid, cancerous nodules typically is 3-5 years. Therefore, longer initial and total follow-up intervals are recommended for subsolid nodules than for solid nodules.
Evaluation with a PET/CT scan would be recommended for a solid nodule that is greater than 8 mm in size. This test most commonly uses fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) as a metabolic marker to identify rapidly dividing cells such as tumor cells and, to a lesser degree, any inflammatory lesion. A nodule that demonstrates no FDG uptake is unlikely to be malignant. PET/CT imaging can also be used for staging a cancer by determining the presence or absence of metastatic disease.
Tissue sampling would not be appropriate at this stage because the vast majority of these lesions are not malignant.

**Bibliography**

MacMahon H, Naidich DP, Goo JM, Lee KS, Leung ANC, Mayo JR, et al. Guidelines for management of incidental pulmonary nodules detected on CT images: from the Fleischner Society 2017. Radiology. 2017;284:228-243. PMID: 28240562 doi:10.1148/radiol.2017161659

This content was last updated in August 2018.