
### Correct Answer: D) Monitor for signs of agitation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient at risk for alcohol withdrawal who has overdosed on benzodiazepines.

#### **Key Point:** Treatment for benzodiazepine overdose is supportive with assurance of adequate ventilation; flumazenil is generally not recommended for benzodiazepine overdose as it can precipitate seizures in chronic users and its short half-life makes it difficult to sustain reversal of long-acting benzodiazepines.

This patient should be kept on mechanical ventilation and monitored for signs of agitation. He shows signs of benzodiazepine overdose, combined with alcohol abuse. His airway is secure, and he is easily supported with mechanical ventilation, which can continue until he has metabolized the drug and his mental status has improved. Because of his history of alcohol abuse, he is at risk for alcohol withdrawal. Alcohol withdrawal occurs with chronic heavy alcohol use within hours to days after alcohol cessation. Early withdrawal symptoms occur within a few hours of abstinence and include agitation, anxiety, tremulousness, headache, and symptoms of autonomic hyperactivity (fever, diaphoresis, tachycardia, hypertension). Generalized tonic-clonic seizures may occur usually within 6 to 24 hours and should be treated with benzodiazepines because if left untreated, up to one third of patients may progress to delirium tremens.
Flumazenil, a γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA)–receptor antagonist, is the antidote for benzodiazepine toxicity, but reversing the benzodiazepine he took could put him at risk for seizures, especially if he is a chronic user. The short half-life of flumazenil makes it challenging to use in patients requiring sustained reversal of long-acting benzodiazepines, and given the overall low risk of benzodiazepine overdose, it is safer to allow his body to metabolize the benzodiazepine and eliminate it along with the alcohol.
Fomepizole inhibits alcohol dehydrogenase. It is used to block the metabolism of ethylene glycol and methanol into toxic metabolites when either of these alcohols is ingested. There is no reason to suspect either agent, especially in a patient with normal blood pH and a normal anion gap. Administration would therefore not be appropriate.
Dialysis would not be appropriate because there is no acute indication for this invasive and costly intervention. In principle, hemodialysis is indicated for drug intoxications when the clearance of the drug by hemodialysis is significantly shorter than metabolic clearance and the patient is deteriorating or when measured drug concentrations are predictive of a poor outcome without hemodialysis. Dialysis will remove alcohols effectively, but the patient is stable and does not require an invasive intervention.

**Bibliography**

An H, Godwin J. Flumazenil in benzodiazepine overdose. CMAJ. 2016;188:E537. PMID: 27920113

This content was last updated in August 2018.