
### Correct Answer: A) Counsel the patient not to return to work 

**Educational Objective:** Treat hypersensitivity pneumonitis.

#### **Key Point:** Removal of the offending antigen is the most appropriate treatment of acute hypersensitivity pneumonitis.

This patient has acute hypersensitivity pneumonitis and should be counseled not to return to work. The acute form of hypersensitivity pneumonitis presents within 48 hours of a high-level exposure and will often be associated with fever, flu-like symptoms, cough, and shortness of breath. Radiographic imaging can demonstrate bilateral hazy opacities, whereas high-resolution CT imaging of the chest shows findings of ground-glass opacities and centrilobular micronodules that are upper- and midlung predominant. Symptoms typically wane within 24 to 48 hours after removal from the exposure. Recurrence of symptoms with exposure to the respiratory antigen is the hallmark of this disorder, and careful attention to the history will help identify the cause. Primary treatment of acute hypersensitivity pneumonitis is removal from the offending antigen. Studies indicate that pulmonary function can continue to gradually recover, with initial improvements in oxygen exchange followed by increased FVC and improved chest radiograph findings.
Although treatment of acute hypersensitivity pneumonitis with systemic glucocorticoids is appropriate for those with more severe disease, patient response is variable, and prolonged use is associated with significant side effects. There are no data to support the use of inhaled glucocorticoids for acute hypersensitivity pneumonitis and, again, the primary treatment is to remove the offending agent.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is the most common idiopathic interstitial pneumonia. It occurs predominantly in older individuals; the diagnosis of IPF is rare in those younger than 50 years of age. Gradual onset of dyspnea and cough during months to years is typical. Pirfenidone is a novel therapeutic agent that regulates transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) and tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) activity through an unknown mechanism that is used in the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Similarly, nintedanib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor known to block pathways that lead to activation of the fibroblast. Although these therapies are an important step forward in the management of IPF, they are not curative. This patient does not have IPF and treatment with pirfenidone is not indicated.
Lymphangioleiomyomatosis is a rare disorder that occurs sporadically in women or in association with tuberous sclerosis. It manifests as a diffuse cystic lung disease due to infiltration of smooth muscle cells into the pulmonary parenchyma. Genetic mutations within the cells lead to activation of the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway. Diagnosis is based on imaging studies with diffuse thin-walled cysts as well as spontaneous pneumothorax and angiomyolipomas. Treatment is inhibition of the mTOR with sirolimus. Such treatment is not indicated in this patient with hypersensitivity pneumonitis.

**Bibliography**

Vasakova M, Morell F, Walsh S, Leslie K, Raghu G. Hypersensitivity pneumonitis: perspectives in diagnosis and management. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2017;196:680-689. PMID: 28598197 doi:10.1164/rccm.201611-2201PP

This content was last updated in August 2018.