
### Correct Answer: C) Intubation and mechanical ventilation 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with acute hypoxemic respiratory failure with invasive mechanical ventilation.

#### **Key Point:** Most patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome require intubation and mechanical ventilation to ensure adequate delivery of high levels of inspired oxygen and positive end-expiratory pressure to stabilize alveoli.

The most appropriate treatment is intubation and mechanical ventilation. This patient has dyspnea, severe hypoxemia, bilateral opacities on chest radiograph, and acute hypoxemic respiratory failure after aspiration, all of which are diagnostic for acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). ARDS is associated with heterogeneous but often widespread damage to the alveolar epithelium and vascular endothelium, as well as surfactant dysfunction leading to alveolar instability and collapse. The changes can severely reduce lung compliance, making adequate ventilation difficult and further worsening hypoxia. Most patients with ARDS require intubation and mechanical ventilation to ensure adequate delivery of high levels of inspired oxygen and positive end-expiratory pressure to stabilize alveoli.
Continuing oxygen through a face mask would not be appropriate. Although the patient is maintaining appropriate oxygen saturation, the presence of anxiety, diaphoresis, tachycardia, tachypnea, hypercapnia, and hypoxemia signal impending respiratory failure that should be treated with intubation and mechanical ventilation.
High-flow humidified nasal cannula devices decrease the work of breathing, provide heated and humidified air, provide a reliable FIO2, and decrease dead space. Their initial application should occur in the critical care setting with close monitoring for tolerance and effectiveness. A recent trial demonstrated that in patients with acute hypoxemic respiratory failure, the use of high flow nasal cannula led to decreased mortality compared to continuing face mask oxygen or noninvasive face mask ventilation; however, the study excluded patients with hypercapnia, such as this patient. This patient shows features of respiratory muscle fatigue, including rapid breathing, diaphoresis, use of accessory muscles of respiration, and an elevated arterial PCO2, all indications for mechanical ventilation.
Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) is the delivery of positive airway pressure using a cushioned face mask or helmet or without the use of an invasive connection directly in a patient's airway. In patients with hypoxemic respiratory failure, the use of NIPPV is controversial. Select patients may benefit from short-duration NIPPV to avoid intubation and associated complications but some studies have demonstrated increased mortality, likely due to delay in the implementation of appropriate invasive mechanical ventilation. This patient with deteriorating ventilation should be intubated and mechanically ventilated.

**Bibliography**

Wilson JG, Matthay MA. Mechanical ventilation in acute hypoxemic respiratory failure: a review of new strategies for the practicing hospitalist. J Hosp Med. 2014;9:469-75. PMID: 24733692 doi:10.1002/jhm.2192

This content was last updated in August 2018.