
### Correct Answer: A) Intravenous fluid bolus 

**Educational Objective:** Treat sepsis with immediate fluid resuscitation.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with hypoperfusion due to sepsis should be managed with aggressive crystalloid fluid resuscitation using an initial bolus of 30 mL/kg of body weight.

The most appropriate management is an intravenous fluid bolus of 30 mL/kg of body weight. Successful treatment of severe sepsis and septic shock depends on the rapid institution of hemodynamic support, empiric treatment of infection, and infection control. Crystalloid infusion (normal [0.9%] saline or lactated Ringer solution) to support circulating intravascular volume should be administered to all patients with severe sepsis and septic shock. The 2016 update to the Surviving Sepsis Guidelines recommends using an initial bolus of 30 mL/kg of body weight.
The 2018 American Diabetes Association Standards for Care recommend that insulin therapy be initiated for treatment of persistent hyperglycemia starting at a threshold of 180 mg/dL (10.0 mmol/L). Once insulin therapy is started, a target glucose range of 140 to 180 mg/dL (7.8–10.0 mmol/L) is recommended for most critically ill and noncritically ill patients. This patient's plasma glucose is not so high that it is an emergency; therefore, administration of insulin is a lower priority than treatment of shock.
This patient may have also have developed a paraspinous abscess (fever, new-onset back pain, difficulty urinating). This patient may need spine imaging but the more urgent priority is his hemodynamic instability, which requires fluid resuscitation before he can undergo any diagnostic imaging study.
Before this patient can be evaluated for surgical source control, he needs to be resuscitated. He is not showing signs of necrotizing fasciitis, which would be a surgical emergency, but even if he were suspected of this diagnosis, he would need aggressive fluid resuscitation while arrangements were made for urgent surgical debridement.

**Bibliography**

Rhodes A, Evans LE, Alhazzani W, Levy MM, Antonelli M, Ferrer R, et al. Surviving Sepsis Campaign: international guidelines for management of sepsis and septic shock: 2016. Intensive Care Med. 2017;43:304-377. PMID: 28101605 doi:10.1007/s00134-017-4683-6

This content was last updated in August 2018.