
### Correct Answer: C) Pleurodesis 

**Educational Objective:** Treat secondary spontaneous pneumothorax with chemical pleurodesis.

#### **Key Point:** Recurrence prevention with pleurodesis is recommended after the first occurrence of secondary spontaneous pneumothorax.

The most appropriate management of this patient with severe COPD and secondary pneumothorax is pleurodesis. Pneumothorax (air in the pleural space) can occur spontaneously, as a result of trauma, or iatrogenically. Spontaneous pneumothorax is further characterized as a primary spontaneous pneumothorax (PSP) in a person without underlying lung disease or a secondary spontaneous pneumothorax (SSP) in a person with underlying lung disease. Patients presenting with SSP are at higher risk for persistent air leak, further expansion of the pneumothorax, or pneumothorax recurrence due to their underlying lung disease. Intervention to prevent recurrence includes both chemical and mechanical pleurodesis, which is recommended in all patients with SSP and after the second occurrence of a PSP. In patients with SSP the cause of persistent air leak following pneumothorax is usually subpleural bullae or cysts. Additional interventions are required to close the leak. For patients who are surgical candidates, video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) is recommended to locate and staple or resect blebs followed by mechanical pleurodesis. Patients who cannot tolerate surgery are treated with blood patch or chemical pleurodesis. These procedures are designed to seal the leak and prevent recurrence of pneumothorax. A blood patch is performed by injecting a quantity of the patient's blood into the thoracostomy tube. Chemical pleurodesis is performed by instilling tetracycline or one of its derivatives or specialized talc powder through the thoracostomy tube. Success rate for chemical pleurodesis ranges from 60% to 90% but it is not as effective as mechanical pleurodesis using VATS.
Clamping or removing the thoracostomy tube would not be appropriate because the patient has a secondary spontaneous pneumothorax and the likelihood of recurrence is high.
Placing the thoracostomy tube to high suction would not be appropriate because high levels of suction can increase the risk for reexpansion and pulmonary edema; in addition, the pneumothorax has resolved so no additional suction is needed.

**Bibliography**

MacDuff A, Arnold A, Harvey J; BTS Pleural Disease Guideline Group. Management of spontaneous pneumothorax: British Thoracic Society Pleural Disease Guideline 2010. Thorax. 2010;65 Suppl 2:ii18-31. PMID: 20696690 doi:10.1136/thx.2010.136986

This content was last updated in August 2018.