
### Correct Answer: C) Previous COPD exacerbations and FEV1 level 

**Educational Objective:** Identify risk factors of acute exacerbations of COPD.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with COPD who have had two or more acute exacerbations within the last year, who have an FEV1 of less than 50% of predicted, or who have ever been hospitalized for an acute exacerbation are considered to be at high risk for recurrent acute exacerbations.

The patient's previous COPD exacerbations and FEV1 of 35% of predicted are most associated with high risk for recurrent acute exacerbations of COPD. In the Evaluation of COPD Longitudinally to Identify Predictive Surrogate Endpoints (ECLIPSE) prospective study, the best predictor of exacerbations was a history of exacerbations, regardless of COPD severity. In this study the number of exacerbations in the previous 12 months, degree of airflow obstruction, and number of hospitalizations for an exacerbation refined the risk estimate. A history of 0 or 1 exacerbation, FEV1 of 50% or better, and no hospitalizations predicts a low risk of future exacerbations, whereas more than 1 exacerbation, FEV1 less than 50% predicted, and hospitalization predicts a high future risk of exacerbation. Exacerbations of COPD can be prevented by optimizing treatment with appropriate interventions based on risk classification and overall disease management; this includes immunizations and lifestyle changes such as maintaining physical activity and addressing anxiety and depression.
Pulmonary rehabilitation is recommended for all symptomatic patients with an FEV1 of less than 50% of predicted and specifically for those hospitalized with an acute exacerbation of COPD. Use of such a program is not causally linked with an increased risk of COPD exacerbation.
Several comorbidities are associated with an increased risk of acute exacerbation, including heart failure, ischemic heart disease, diabetes, kidney failure, and hepatic failure. However, hypertension has not been associated with an increased risk of acute COPD exacerbations.
Current tobacco use is an independent risk factor for the development of COPD. However, past tobacco use and significant pack-year history are not associated with an increased risk for acute exacerbation. Discontinuing maintenance COPD mediations is associated with COPD exacerbations, whereas the use of such medications is not.

**Bibliography**

Hurst JR, Vestbo J, Anzueto A, Locantore N, Müllerova H, Tal-Singer R, et al; Evaluation of COPD Longitudinally to Identify Predictive Surrogate Endpoints (ECLIPSE) Investigators. Susceptibility to exacerbation in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. N Engl J Med. 2010;363:1128-38. PMID: 20843247 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa0909883

This content was last updated in August 2018.