
### Correct Answer: B) Noninvasive ventilation with bilevel positive airway pressure 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with neurologic disease and hypercapnic respiratory failure with bilevel positive airway pressure.

#### **Key Point:** Bilevel positive airway pressure ventilation improves survival and quality of life in patients with neuromuscular disease.

The use of bilevel positive airway pressure (BPAP) ventilation is the most appropriate treatment. This patient has features consistent with chronic hypercapnic respiratory failure secondary to neuromuscular disease. He has dyspnea and, more characteristically, orthopnea. The patient has chronic respiratory acidosis with a normal alveolar-arterial (A-a) oxygen gradient. BPAP delivers both inspiratory positive airway pressure and expiratory positive airway pressure and improves survival and quality of life of patients with neuromuscular disease. The settings generate a pressure difference that augments the patient's own respiratory muscle activity, leading to an increase in the size of each breath. The PCO2 level will decrease due to the increase in minute ventilation and efficiency of breathing.
Invasive mechanical ventilation (mechanical ventilation with airway intubation or tracheostomy) is a therapeutic option in the setting of acute hypercapnic respiratory failure due to neuromuscular disease. However, the patient is awake, has excellent bulbar control (swallows and gags), and has a chronic disease that responds well to noninvasive ventilation.
Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) delivers positive airway pressure at a level that remains constant throughout the respiratory cycle preventing upper airway collapse or narrowing during sleep. No additional pressure above the level of CPAP is provided and patients must initiate every breath. CPAP does not increase minute ventilation, and it is not helpful in patients with hypercapnic respiratory failure due to neuromuscular disorders.
The patient has a normal A-a oxygen gradient and hypercapnia, which confirm that the hypoxemia is secondary to hypoventilation rather than a ventilation-perfusion mismatch or shunt; therefore, oxygen administration should not be needed once his PCO2 improves. More importantly, the administration of oxygen in the absence of supportive ventilation should be avoided in patients with neuromuscular disease and chronic hypercapnic respiratory failure; it has been associated with acute hypercapnia, in some cases leading to death.

**Bibliography**

Gregoretti C, Pisani L, Cortegiani A, Ranieri VM. Noninvasive ventilation in critically ill patients. Crit Care Clin. 2015;31:435-57. PMID: 26118914 doi:10.1016/j.ccc.2015.03.002

This content was last updated in August 2018.