
### Correct Answer: A) Intravenous hypertensive therapy to lower systolic blood pressure (SBP) to 160 mm Hg within the first 6 hours 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with hypertensive encephalopathy.

#### **Key Point:** For adults with a hypertensive emergency and without a compelling condition (such as aortic dissection) systolic blood pressure should be reduced by no more than 25% within the first hour; then, if stable, to 160 mm Hg within the next 2 to 6 hours; and then cautiously to normal during the following 24 to 48 hours.

The appropriate treatment is intravenous hypertensive therapy to lower the systolic blood pressure (SBP) to 160 mm Hg within the first 6 hours. Appropriate intravenous agents could include fenoldopam, nicardipine, or nitroprusside. Hypertensive emergency refers to elevation of SBP greater than 180 mm Hg, diastolic blood pressure (DBP) greater than 120 mm Hg, or both, that is associated with end-organ damage. Patients with hypertensive emergency require rapid, tightly controlled reductions in blood pressure that avoid overcorrection. Management typically occurs in an ICU with continuous arterial blood pressure monitoring and continuous infusion of antihypertensive agents. According to the 2017 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association hypertension guidelines, for adults with a compelling condition (aortic dissection, severe preeclampsia or eclampsia, or pheochromocytoma crisis), SBP should be reduced to less than 140 mm Hg during the first hour and to less than 120 mm Hg in aortic dissection. For adults without a compelling condition, such as this patient, SBP should be reduced by no more than 25% within the first hour; then, if stable, to 160 mm Hg within the next 2 to 6 hours; and then cautiously to normal during the following 24 to 48 hours.
Because autoregulation of tissue perfusion is disturbed in hypertensive emergencies, reducing blood pressure too rapidly can result in ischemic organ damage. Therefore, targeting a blood pressure of 120/80 mm Hg during the first hour of treatment is inappropriate because it could result in further worsening of kidney injury, encephalopathy, or both.
Conversely, lowering the SBP to 160 mm Hg during 48 hours is likely too slow and not in keeping with current guidelines.
This patient's normal medication combined with observation is not aggressive enough. Eventually he will need a stable outpatient hypertension regimen with education on the importance of adherence to that regimen, but not in this acute setting.

**Bibliography**

Whelton PK, Carey RM, Aronow WS, Casey DE Jr, Collins KJ, Dennison Himmelfarb C, et al. 2017 ACC/AHA/AAPA/ABC/ACPM/AGS/APhA/ASH/ASPC/NMA/PCNA guideline for the prevention, detection, evaluation, and management of high blood pressure in adults: a report of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association Task Force on Clinical Practice Guidelines. Hypertension. 2017. PMID: 29133356 doi:10.1161/HYP.0000000000000065

This content was last updated in August 2018.