
### Correct Answer: A) Acute exacerbation of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose an acute exacerbation of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

#### **Key Point:** An acute exacerbation of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis begins with an abrupt worsening during a few days to weeks in the absence of another cause for dyspnea such as infection, heart failure, or pulmonary embolism and is notable for new bilateral ground-glass opacities superimposed on findings consistent with usual interstitial pneumonia on CT scan.

The most likely diagnosis is an acute exacerbation of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). The clinical course of an acute exacerbation is acute to subacute onset (typically shorter than 30 days) of worsening dyspnea, and the medical evaluation does not reveal another cause for dyspnea such as infection, heart failure, or pulmonary embolism. High-resolution CT scan shows new-onset diffuse bilateral ground-glass opacities. Patients may develop frank respiratory failure due to an exacerbation or stabilize at a new, worsened baseline. The proposed criteria for an acute IPF exacerbation have recently changed and now include the possibility of a “trigger” and, therefore, the history of a viral prodrome and presence of rhinovirus no longer exclude this diagnosis. Evidence-based treatment options are limited. The role for mechanical ventilation in this population is often futile if there is not a reversible cause and particularly if there is not a path to lung transplantation. Glucocorticoids are often used in combination with broad spectrum antibiotics in the hopes of a clinical response. Many patients are now being treated for IPF with nintedanib or pirfenidone, although the value of continuing these antifibrotic therapies in the acute exacerbation phase of disease is currently unknown.
Heart failure does not fully explain the acute worsening of IPF because the B-type natriuretic peptide is low.
Hypersensitivity pneumonitis is the result of an immunologic response to repetitive inhalation of antigens and high-level exposure and will often be associated with fevers, flulike symptoms, cough, and shortness of breath, typically during a period of 48 hours. The most common sources of antigens are thermophilic actinomycetes, fungi, and bird droppings. High-resolution CT imaging of the chest shows findings of ground-glass opacities and centrilobular micronodules that are upper-lung and midlung predominant. The patient's history and radiological findings are not consistent with this diagnosis.
Nonspecific interstitial pneumonia (NSIP) is a disease that predominantly affects the lower lobes of the lung. Unlike IPF, NSIP tends to affect a younger patient population and is strongly associated with connective tissue disease. The ground glass opacities on this patient's CT scan indicate an acute exacerbation with a background of usual interstitial pneumonia and are not consistent with NSIP.

**Bibliography**

Collard HR, Ryerson CJ, Corte TJ, Jenkins G, Kondoh Y, Lederer DJ, et al. Acute exacerbation of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. An international working group report. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2016;194:265-75. PMID: 27299520 doi:10.1164/rccm.201604-0801CI

This content was last updated in August 2018.