
### Correct Answer: A) Hydroxocobalamin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient for cyanide poisoning as a coexposure to carbon monoxide poisoning after a house fire.

#### **Key Point:** Hydroxocobalamin effectively removes cyanide from the mitochondrial respiration system and is the preferred antidote for cyanide poisoning.

This patient should be treated with intravenous hydroxocobalamin, which is the preferred antidote for cyanide poisoning. Cyanide toxicity is common in victims of house fires, with up to 90% of rescued victims having elevated cyanide levels and 35% having significantly elevated levels, which is higher than the rate of carbon monoxide poisoning among such victims. Cyanide disrupts oxidative phosphorylation, forcing cells to convert to anaerobic metabolism despite adequate oxygen supply. The result in severe cases is multiorgan failure with coma, seizures, and cardiovascular symptoms, including hypotension, bradycardia, heart block, and ventricular arrhythmias. Early manifestations are nonspecific. Diagnostic clues include lactic acidosis and inappropriately elevated central venous oxyhemoglobin saturation, which manifests as bright red venous blood. Cyanide levels are not readily available and because toxicity is rapidly fatal, prompt empiric treatment is imperative in suspected cases. Hydroxocobalamin avidly binds to cyanide to produce cyanocobalamin, which is soluble, nontoxic, and readily excreted. In addition, ongoing exposure, such as contaminated clothing, should also be eliminated. Hydroxocobalamin can affect accuracy of lab results for methemoglobin, lactate, and other tests, so it is important to obtain blood for these tests before administering the antidote, if possible.
Carbon monoxide is removed by competitive binding of oxygen to hemoglobin. The initial treatment is administration of 100% oxygen, which reduces the half-life of carboxyhemoglobin from 5 hours to 90 minutes. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy yields an even higher alveolar PO2, thereby reducing the half-life to 30 minutes while substantially increasing the amount of oxygen directly dissolved in blood. However, hyperbaric oxygen therapy would not be appropriate because this patient's carboxyhemoglobin level is not high enough to suggest severe carbon monoxide poisoning. Hyperbaric oxygen is usually recommended for levels of 25% to 40% or higher, or for victims with lower levels who are pregnant.
Methylene blue would be recommended for toxic levels of methemoglobin, usually 20% to 30% or higher, but it is not indicated for this patient.
Although sodium nitrite is an antidote for cyanide poisoning, it is contraindicated in victims of smoke inhalation because it works by inducing methemoglobinemia, which would further impair oxygen delivery by additive or synergistic effects on oxygen binding and delivery in cases of carbon monoxide toxicity.
Sodium thiosulfate is also used as an antidote for cyanide toxicity and is safer than sodium nitrite, but has a slower onset of action. It is considered second-line therapy after hydroxocobalamin, but the two agents can be given to the same patient, possibly with synergistic effect. However, they should not be administered simultaneously or through the same intravenous catheter.

**Bibliography**

Hamad E, Babu K, Bebarta VS. Case files of the University of Massachusetts Toxicology Fellowship: Does this smoke inhalation victim require treatment with cyanide antidote? J Med Toxicol. 2016;12:192-8. PMID: 26831054 doi:10.1007/s13181-016-0533-0

This content was last updated in September 2019.