
### Correct Answer: C) Repeat sweat chloride testing 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient with clinical signs of cystic fibrosis and a negative sweat chloride test.

#### **Key Point:** Negative sweat chloride testing does not exclude the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis in patients with high pretest probability of disease.

The most appropriate next step is to repeat the sweat chloride testing. Diagnosis of cystic fibrosis (CF) is based on a combination of CF-compatible clinical findings in conjunction with either biochemical (sweat testing, nasal potential difference) or genetic (CFTR mutations) techniques. Genetic counseling should always occur before any genetic test is performed. The essential components of counseling include informing the patient of the test purpose, implications of diagnosis, and alternative testing options. Ultimately, the decision of whether or not to be tested rests with the patient. Use of the sweat test has been the mainstay of laboratory confirmation. Negative sweat chloride testing does not exclude the diagnosis of CF. This patient has many findings suggestive of CF upper-lobe predominant bronchiectasis, chronic sinus disease, colonization with Pseudomonas, clubbing, and infertility. Therefore, the index of suspicion for CF, as well as ciliary dyskinesia disorders, is extremely high for this patient. Because sweat chloride testing can give variable results, it is appropriate to repeat the testing and, if still negative, refer the patient to a center with expertise in CF or genetic testing.
Chronic oral macrolide antibiotics and inhaled antibiotic therapy are beneficial in patients with a confirmed diagnosis of CF. However, individuals with bronchiectasis are often exposed to several courses of antibiotics, and resistance to quinolones is common. Therefore, initiation of chronic ciprofloxacin therapy is not indicated.
In a recent phase 3 trial, tiotropium was well tolerated in patients with CF, but lung function improvements compared with placebo were not statistically significant and such treatment is not generally recommended.
Patients with α1-antitrypsin deficiency can present with lung disease and liver disease. A characteristic radiographic finding of the emphysema associated with α1-antitrypsin deficiency is bullous changes most prominent at the bases, which are not present in this patient. Additionally, α1-antitrypsin deficiency cannot account for the patient's sinus disease or infertility. Therefore, α1-antitrypsin deficiency testing would not be the most appropriate next diagnostic test in this patient with a clinical history suggestive of possible CF.

**Bibliography**

Farrell PM, White TB, Ren CL, Hempstead SE, Accurso F, Derichs N, et al. Diagnosis of cystic fibrosis: consensus guidelines from the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. J Pediatr. 2017;181S:S4-S15.e1. PMID: 28129811 doi:10.1016/j.jpeds.2016.09.064.

This content was last updated in August 2018.