
### Correct Answer: C) Low-dose CT scan of the chest 

**Educational Objective:** Screen for lung cancer in a patient at high risk.

#### **Key Point:** Patients recommended for lung cancer screening are those aged 50 to 80 years with a greater than 20-pack-year history of tobacco use within the previous 15 years.

The most appropriate test is a low-dose CT scan of the chest. Annual low-radiation-dose CT has been shown to reduce lung cancer mortality (20% relative decrease in lung cancer deaths) among high-risk individuals and is now recommended by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force and other expert groups. Patients recommended for screening are those aged 50 to 80 years with a greater than 20-pack-year history of tobacco use within the previous 15 years. This patient fulfills these criteria and is, therefore, an appropriate candidate for a low-dose CT scan of the chest. Patients must also receive in-office counseling regarding the potential benefits and harms of screening, and documentation of shared decision making.
Monitoring respiratory parameters during exertion with the 6-minute walk test (6MWT) is helpful to assess disability and prognosis in chronic lung conditions. During a 6MWT, oxygen saturation, heart rate, dyspnea and fatigue level, and distance walked in 6 minutes are recorded. This relatively simple maneuver quantifies exercise tolerance, determines effective interventions, and helps predict morbidity and mortality. This patient has no indication for a 6MWT.
Chest radiography has been shown to be ineffective in screening for lung cancer and is not indicated in an asymptomatic patient such as this one.
Spirometry is warranted in any patient presenting with dyspnea, chronic cough, or sputum production. Screening for lung disease with spirometry should not be performed in asymptomatic patients, even those with a history of smoking.
Urinary cotinine is a metabolite of nicotine that is excreted in the urine and can be measured to assess if patients are using tobacco products. It is sometimes used while patients are actively attempting to quit smoking to assess adequacy of nicotine replacement therapy and monitor abstinence. This patient is high risk and a candidate for screening regardless of his current smoking status, and this test is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Mazzone PJ, Silvestri GA, Patel S, Kanne JP, Kinsinger LS, Wiener RS, et al. Screening for lung cancer: CHEST guideline and expert panel report. Chest. 2018;153:954-985. PMID: 29374513 doi:10.1016/j.chest.2018.01.016

This content was last updated in October 2021.