
### Correct Answer: D) Stop sedation and analgesia 

**Educational Objective:** Manage oversedation in a patient in the ICU.

#### **Key Point:** Daily protocolized interruptions of sedation and analgesia have been shown to decrease the incidence of delirium, the need for diagnostic testing, and the amount of time spent on mechanical ventilation and in the ICU.

The most appropriate management is to stop sedation and analgesia. Clinicians at the bedside may resist stopping sedation and analgesia in a patient with a clear need for both, or because of concerns with ventilator synchrony or oxygenation. Protocolized care can help guide nursing and respiratory therapy if these problems arise. In addition, daily protocolized interruptions of sedation and analgesia have been shown to decrease the incidence of delirium, the need for diagnostic testing, and the amount of time spent on mechanical ventilation and in the ICU. Stopping sedation and analgesia, rather than gradually decreasing them, allows for a faster return to awareness and titration of infusions to achieve the sedation and analgesia goal. Analgesia and sedation can be restarted, at lower doses, if the patient requires them later.
Dexmedetomidine has pharmacological properties that may benefit this patient (analgesia, allows arousal). However, there is currently no evidence that it is superior to appropriately titrated propofol.
Ordering a CT scan is not the most appropriate first step in management of an unresponsive patient with nonfocal physical examination findings currently being treated with propofol and morphine. Moreover, a CT would expose the patient to the risks of being moved while critically ill and unnecessary radiation. The rate of serious events during transport is important enough to warrant careful determination of need.
Ordering an electroencephalogram to assess his unresponsiveness would be part of the diagnostic evaluation if interruption of sedation did not lead to improved mental status. Nonconvulsive status epilepticus has been reported in up to 20% of patients with unexplained unresponsiveness. Current recommendations suggest continuous electroencephalogram as the diagnostic test of choice.

**Bibliography**

Barr J, Fraser GL, Puntillo K, Ely EW, Gélinas C, Dasta JF, et al; American College of Critical Care Medicine. Clinical practice guidelines for the management of pain, agitation, and delirium in adult patients in the intensive care unit. Crit Care Med. 2013;41:263-306. PMID: 23269131 doi:10.1097/CCM.0b013e3182783b72

This content was last updated in August 2018.