
### Correct Answer: E) Sprayed water and cooling fans 

**Educational Objective:** Treat heat stroke with evaporative cooling techniques.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with nonexertional heat stroke should be treated with evaporative cooling to lower their core temperature to a safe level.

This patient should be sprayed with water, and fans should be used to lower his body temperature to a safe level (usually 38.5 °C (101 °F) through evaporative cooling. Heat stroke occurs with high ambient temperature and humidity and is defined by the presence of a temperature greater than 40.0 °C (104.0 °F) and encephalopathy. It is often associated with hypotension, gastrointestinal distress, and weakness. Patients with advanced heat stroke exhibit shock, multiorgan failure, rhabdomyolysis, and myocardial ischemia. Exertional heat stroke typically occurs in healthy individuals undergoing vigorous physical activity in warm conditions. In contrast, most patients with nonexertional heat stroke are older than 70 years of age or have chronic medical conditions that impair thermal regulation. Medications and recreational drugs with anticholinergic, sympathomimetic, and diuretic effects, including alcohol, pose added risk. The primary treatment of nonexertional heat stroke is evaporative, external cooling. This involves removing all clothing and spraying the patient with a mist of lukewarm water while continuously blowing fans on the patient. Evaporative and convective cooling techniques are generally the safest and most effective.
Acetaminophen and other centrally acting antipyretics are ineffective in the treatment of heat stroke. A cooling blanket could be used as an adjunct, but it is not as effective as evaporative cooling.
Alcohol would evaporate and provide cooling as effective as that from applying water, but it would also be absorbed through the vasodilated skin and could lead to alcohol toxicity similar to that observed in patients who have ingested alcohol and is therefore contraindicated.
Although ice water immersion is sometimes used in younger patients with exertional heat stroke to lower the body temperature rapidly, there is evidence for increased mortality when this method is used in older patients. Also, this patient's core temperature of 40 °C (104 °F) is not so severe that more aggressive measures need to be considered.
The muscle relaxant dantrolene is ineffective in the treatment of heat stroke. It is used for malignant hyperthermia and sometimes for neuroleptic malignant syndrome, although this is an off-label application.

**Bibliography**

O’Connor JP. Simple and effective method to lower body core temperatures of hyperthermic patients. Am J Emerg Med. 2017;35:881-884. PMID: 28162872 doi:10.1016/j.ajem.2017.01.053

This content was last updated in August 2018.