
### Correct Answer: A) 0.9% saline bolus 

**Educational Objective:** Treat septic shock with crystalloid infusion as the initial resuscitative therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Initial treatment of septic or distributive shock should focus on aggressive fluid resuscitation with crystalloids within the first 3 hours of presentation.

This patient should receive a 0.9% saline bolus. He has signs of septic shock from influenza (fever, tachycardia, hypotension, elevated leukocyte count, and exposure to influenza). In patients with septic or distributive shock, initial resuscitation efforts should be aimed at giving crystalloid fluids (0.9% saline, Ringer's lactate). The 2016 Surviving Sepsis guidelines recommend giving 30 mL/kg crystalloid solution within 3 hours of presentation in patients who demonstrate signs of tissue hypoperfusion. Judicious fluid administration is warranted thereafter, as intravascular volume overload can contribute to pulmonary edema and pleural effusions. This patient has several features of hypoperfusion, including hypotension, tachycardia, metabolic acidosis, and an elevated blood lactate.
Furosemide would be appropriate if the patient were in cardiogenic shock and presenting with signs of volume overload. The history, examination, and chest radiograph are not consistent with cardiogenic shock or volume overload. Therefore, furosemide is not recommended and would only promote further hypotension.
If hypotension does not rapidly correct with fluids, vasopressors should be titrated to maintain a mean arterial pressure of 65 mm Hg or greater. Norepinephrine is considered first-line therapy. This patient has not received crystalloid solution yet so initial therapy with norepinephrine is incorrect. However, in patients who are refractory to volume loading, vasopressor therapy is recommended to help improve hemodynamic stability.
In the absence of extenuating circumstances (myocardial ischemia, severe hypoxemia, or active hemorrhage), the Surviving Sepsis guidelines recommend that red blood cell transfusion only be given if hemoglobin is less than 7 g/dL (70 g/L). Because this patient has a hemoglobin level above 7 g/dL, there is no direct role for packed red blood cell transfusion.

**Bibliography**

Rochwerg B, Alhazzani W, Sindi A, et al; Fluids in Sepsis and Septic Shock Group. Fluid resuscitation in sepsis: a systematic review and network meta-analysis. Ann Intern Med. 2014;161:347-55. PMID: 25047428

This content was last updated in August 2018.