
### Correct Answer: B) Continue CPR with active internal (core) rewarming 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient in cardiac arrest due to accidental hypothermia with prolonged cardiopulmonary resuscitation and active internal rewarming.

#### **Key Point:** Cardiopulmonary resuscitation should be continued in patients with accidental hypothermia accompanied by cardiac arrest until the patient can be rewarmed.

Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) should be continued with active internal (core) rewarming. Conventional treatment of ventricular arrhythmias and asystole is often ineffective until the temperature is raised to greater than 30.0 °C (86.0 °F). Because severe hypothermia may appear clinically similar to death, aggressive rewarming is appropriate in all patients in the absence of obvious irreversible signs of death. A critical first step entails removing wet clothing and covering the patient with insulating material, especially the head and neck. For mildly hypothermic, healthy individuals capable of shivering, this strategy of passive external rewarming alone suffices. Active external rewarming using warm blankets or a forced heated air blanket is commonly used in hemodynamically stable patients with moderate hypothermia. Body cavity lavage with warm fluids is an option for patients with hypothermia that is severe or does not respond to external rewarming. The colon, bladder, and stomach are readily accessible for irrigation but have a small surface area for heat exchange. Rewarming by peritoneal or pleural space irrigation is supported by case reports. Extracorporeal support, including cardiopulmonary bypass, is recommended for patients in cardiac arrest because it maximizes the rewarming rate and can provide hemodynamic support.
Although this man has already received nearly an hour of CPR, there are reports of full recovery in patients with cardiac arrest in the setting of accidental hypothermia, sometimes even after CPR has been performed for many hours. Therefore, continued CPR is indicated until the patient can be rewarmed. Discontinuation of CPR is not appropriate because hypothermia prevents reaching a definite conclusion about the futility or possible effectiveness of continued resuscitation.

**Bibliography**

Hilmo J, Naesheim T, Gilbert M. “Nobody is dead until warm and dead”: prolonged resuscitation is warranted in arrested hypothermic victims also in remote areas—a retrospective study from northern Norway. Resuscitation. 2014;85:1204-11. PMID: 24882104 doi:10.1016/j.resuscitation.2014.04.029

This content was last updated in August 2018.