
### Correct Answer: B) Dexamethasone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat high-altitude cerebral edema with dexamethasone.

#### **Key Point:** Although the most important treatment of high-altitude cerebral edema is descent to lower elevation, dexamethasone should be administered immediately upon recognition of high-altitude cerebral edema.

The most appropriate treatment is dexamethasone. Hypoxia and hypocapnia associated with altitude alter cerebral blood flow and oxygen delivery to the brain. When autoregulatory mechanisms are overcome, symptoms may be mild, as with acute mountain sickness, or severe, as with life-threatening cerebral edema. Acute mountain sickness is characterized by nonspecific symptoms such as headache, fatigue, nausea, and vomiting, in addition to disturbed sleep. High-altitude cerebral edema is a more extreme manifestation of acute mountain sickness. Vascular leak leads to brain swelling, resulting in manifestations that range from confusion and irritability to ataxic gait to coma and death. Recognition of cerebral edema mandates immediate intervention. This patient is exhibiting signs and symptoms of encephalopathy indicative of high-altitude cerebral edema, the risk of which increases at more extreme elevations (higher than 3000 meters [9842 feet]). Although the most important intervention is descent to lower elevation, dexamethasone should be administered immediately upon recognition of high-altitude cerebral edema. Supplemental oxygen should also be administered.
High-altitude illness can be prevented by gradually ascending, which can generally be accomplished by spending one night at an intermediate altitude to allow acclimatization. Acetazolamide accelerates the acclimatization process to high altitude by inducing a slight metabolic acidosis to stimulate ventilation and enhance gas exchange; it can be used prophylactically in patients with a history of altitude illness. However, it isn't an effective treatment once symptoms develop; although it may be used as an adjunct to dexamethasone, it has no role in high-altitude cerebral edema as monotherapy.
Nifedipine is used as a preventive and therapeutic agent for high-altitude pulmonary edema.
Another vasodilator, sildenafil, may be used as an alternative to nifedipine in high-altitude pulmonary edema. However, neither is useful in the treatment of high-altitude cerebral edema.

**Bibliography**

Luks AM, Swenson ER, Bärtsch P. Acute high-altitude sickness. Eur Respir Rev. 2017;26. PMID: 28143879 doi:10.1183/16000617.0096-2016

This content was last updated in August 2018.