
### Correct Answer: C) Intravenous bolus of morphine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a critically ill patient who has acute pain.

#### **Key Point:** Intravenous opioids are the first-line drug class of choice to treat nonneuropathic pain in critically ill patients; all intravenously administered opioids have equi-analgesic efficacy and are associated with similar clinical outcomes when titrated to similar pain intensity end points.

This patient should receive an intravenous push of morphine. He has acute postoperative pain of the leg and is experiencing severe pain despite a morphine infusion. Analgesia should be titrated to a specific pain management goal while preventing and monitoring for side effects. A bolus dose of morphine will reach therapeutic levels faster than changing rates of infusion. The bolus dose should be repeated until the patient achieves the therapeutic goal, a protocol limit is reached, or side effects occur. He should be monitored closely while receiving acute pain treatment. Common side effects include somnolence, depression of respiratory drive, urinary retention, and nausea and vomiting.
Adding gabapentin is a good strategy for patients with neuropathic pain. Enteral gabapentin added to parenteral opioids can reduce the doses of opiates needed and improve pain control in mechanically ventilated patients. However, this patient is experiencing acute nonneuropathic pain and an intravenous opioid is the drug class of choice.
Epidural analgesia is an effective means to control pain in critically ill patients. This has been demonstrated in patients with cardiac or thoracic surgery or in the setting of rib fractures. It can lead to a reduction of opiate dosing and improved pain control during dressing changes in patients such as this one; however, it takes time to implement and the patient should receive acute pain control before consideration of alternatives to improve his baseline pain control.
Changing the medication to fentanyl is not appropriate as all intravenously administered opioids have equi-analgesic efficacy and are associated with similar clinical outcomes when titrated to similar pain intensity end points. The choice of opiate should be based on pharmacological properties. Fentanyl has a shorter half-life than morphine, and this patient was not having any adverse effect or contraindication to morphine.

**Bibliography**

Barr J, Fraser GL, Puntillo K, Ely EW, Gélinas C, Dasta JF, et al; American College of Critical Care Medicine. Clinical practice guidelines for the management of pain, agitation, and delirium in adult patients in the intensive care unit. Crit Care Med. 2013;41:263-306. PMID: 23269131 doi:10.1097/CCM.0b013e3182783b72

This content was last updated in August 2018.