
### Correct Answer: D) Observation 

**Educational Objective:** Manage an asymptomatic patient with stage I pulmonary sarcoidosis.

#### **Key Point:** Treatment of pulmonary sarcoidosis should be based on symptoms rather than radiographic findings.

This patient should be managed with observation and clinical follow-up. She is incidentally discovered to have bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy likely representing pulmonary sarcoidosis.
Pulmonary sarcoidosis is classified based on the radiographic pattern: stage I, hilar lymphadenopathy with normal lung parenchyma; stage II, hilar lymphadenopathy with abnormal lung parenchyma; stage III, no lymphadenopathy with abnormal lung parenchyma; and, stage IV, parenchymal changes with fibrosis and architectural distortion. For patients such as this, a careful history and physical examination to rule out the possibility of lymphoma and infection are essential. In a series of 100 consecutive patients with bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy, none with either lymphoma or infection were asymptomatic. Furthermore, approximately 75% of patients with stage I pulmonary sarcoidosis, such as this patient, have spontaneous resolution of the hilar lymphadenopathy. Patients can, however, have extrapulmonary disease, and screening electrocardiography, assessment of serum calcium, and eye examination are appropriate initial tests in this population.
Endobronchial ultrasound is a bronchoscopic technique that involves the use of an ultrasound probe at the distal end of the bronchoscope. The ultrasound-tipped bronchoscope can identify mediastinal lymph nodes and increase the yield of a transbronchial needle aspiration by allowing direct visualization of the needle entering the lymph node. This can be used to visualize and biopsy structures adjacent to an airway. This patient has no need for endobronchial ultrasound and biopsy.
Obtaining a high-resolution CT of the chest in this patient may result in further findings of parenchymal lung disease; however, she is asymptomatic and the finding of parenchymal lung disease would not necessitate a change in management at this early stage.
Glucocorticoids are the mainstay of therapy for sarcoidosis. Treatment is usually limited to those with evidence of clinical symptoms from organ dysfunction. Because there is a high rate of spontaneous remission and stability, most treatment protocols favor a period of observation without therapy. The decision to initiate glucocorticoid therapy for sarcoidosis should be based on symptoms or physiologic impairment that is attributable to sarcoid disease. Therefore, treatment with prednisone is not indicated for this patient.

**Bibliography**

Baughman RP, Culver DA, Judson MA. A concise review of pulmonary sarcoidosis. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2011;183:573-81. PMID: 21037016 doi:10.1164/rccm.201006-0865CI

This content was last updated in August 2018.