
### Correct Answer: C) Laryngoscopy 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose a patient with vocal cord dysfunction.

#### **Key Point:** The diagnosis of vocal cord dysfunction is suggested by midchest tightness with exposure to particular triggers such as strong irritants or emotions; difficulty breathing in; and symptoms that only partially respond to asthma medications.

The most appropriate management is laryngoscopy. This patient has symptoms suggestive of vocal cord dysfunction, which is caused by paradoxical adduction of the vocal cords during inspiration, leading to functional upper airway obstruction. The diagnosis is suggested by dysphonia midchest or throat tightness with exposure to particular triggers such as strong irritants or emotions; difficulty breathing in; and symptoms that only partially respond to asthma medications. Patients may also experience midchest tightness, dyspnea, cough, and dysphonia, and stridor may be detected as inspiratory monophonic wheezing. Vocal cord dysfunction is commonly misdiagnosed as asthma, leading to excessive health care use. Diagnosis is ideally made by visualization of the abnormal vocal cord adduction during laryngoscopy. It may also be diagnosed if spirometry happens to capture a flat inspiratory limb on the flow-volume loop. However, if patients are unable to tolerate laryngoscopy while symptomatic, empiric therapy should be started if there is a high clinical suspicion of vocal cord dysfunction. Treatment consists of speech therapy utilizing cognitive behavioral techniques.
Because disorders affecting the upper respiratory tract may affect the lower tract, sinus disorders may be associated with worsening control of asthma. Patients with frequent asthma exacerbations should be evaluated for occult sinus disease, as untreated upper airway inflammation may contribute to poor asthma control. However, CT scan of the sinuses is not appropriate because sinus disease cannot explain the patient's upper chest and throat tightness, dysphonia, inspiratory monophonic wheezing, or unresponsiveness to intensive asthma treatment.
Increasing the prednisone dose is not likely to improve the patient's symptoms, which are not likely or entirely due to airway inflammation and will expose the patient to more potential side effects of glucocorticoids.
Asthma has been associated with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). In difficult-to-control asthma, OSA is a significant risk factor for frequent exacerbations. Treatment of OSA improves asthma symptoms. However, this patient has no obvious risk factors for OSA and OSA cannot explain the patient's upper chest and throat tightness, dysphonia, or inspiratory monophonic wheezing. Therefore polysomnography is not indicated.

**Bibliography**

Idrees M, FitzGerald JM. Vocal cord dysfunction in bronchial asthma. A review article. J Asthma. 2015;52:327-35. PMID: 25365113 doi:10.3109/02770903.2014.982288

This content was last updated in August 2018.