
### Correct Answer: D) Reduce tidal volume 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent ventilator-associated lung injury.

#### **Key Point:** The use of low tidal volume ventilation and positive end-expiratory pressure is associated with prevention of ventilator-associated lung injury and a reduction in mortality related to acute respiratory distress syndrome.

The most appropriate next step is to reduce the tidal volume. This patient fulfills the definition of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) with presentation within 1 week of known insult, arterial PO2/FIO2 ratio of less than 300 with positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) of 5 cm H2O or greater, and bilateral otherwise unexplained opacities seen on frontal chest imaging. Common pulmonary causes of ARDS include pneumonia (most common), aspiration, inhalational injury, near drowning, and drugs. Although ARDS mortality remains high, significant reductions in mortality have been attributed to the use of lung protective ventilation strategies. These strategies generally include limiting the tidal volume given in mechanical ventilation to 6 mL/kg of ideal body weight, limiting the plateau pressure in the respiratory cycle to no more than 30 cm H2O, and use of adequate PEEP to prevent the collapse of unstable alveolar units in the expiratory phase of the cycle. In the 2000 ARMA trial, low tidal volume ventilation (LTVV) was associated with a 9% absolute reduction in mortality when patients were ventilated at a goal of 6-8 mL/kg of ideal body weight compared with more liberal tidal volumes of 10-12 mL/kg. However, implementation of LTVV remains challenging for several reasons. Among them, patients who receive LTVV often demonstrate signs of air hunger. This can lead to ventilator dyssynchrony and increased sedation requirements.
Current recommendations are to use a PEEP level that achieves adequate oxygenation with an FIO2 of less than 0.6 and does not cause hypotension. These parameters are being met with the current level of PEEP; therefore, adjustment of PEEP is not the most appropriate next step.
If the respiration rate remains constant, a lower tidal volume will reduce the total minute ventilation and thus reduce CO2 removal. This results in higher arterial PCO2 and lower arterial pH. In the ARMA trial, LTVV-related hypercapnea was permitted, provided the arterial pH did not go below 7.3. In cases where the pH did drop below 7.3, respiration rate was increased to improve minute ventilation and decrease the PCO2. The patient's Pco2 and pH are acceptable and adjustment of the respiration rate is not the most appropriate next step.

**Bibliography**

Thompson BT, Chambers RC, Liu KD. Acute respiratory distress syndrome. N Engl J Med. 2017;377:562-572. PMID: 28792873 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1608077

This content was last updated in March 2020.