
### Correct Answer: D) Remove the central venous catheter 

**Educational Objective:** Recognize an emergently placed central venous catheter as a potential source of sepsis.

#### **Key Point:** Fluid resuscitation, administration of antibiotics, and infection source control are essential in the early sepsis management.

The most appropriate management for this patient is removal of the central venous catheter. Morbidity and mortality in patients with sepsis are heavily influenced by the care delivered during the first several hours after sepsis onset. Once sepsis is recognized, interventions focus on adequate fluid resuscitation. Crystalloid is recommended at a volume of 30 mL/kg of body weight. In septic shock, mortality increases with each hour that appropriate antibiotic therapy is delayed. Two sets of blood cultures should be obtained before antibiotic infusion in addition to cultures from the suspected infection site. Empiric antimicrobial treatment should cover all suspected pathogens, with special attention to risk factors for resistant or opportunistic organisms, including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas species. Identification and control of the source of infection are critical steps in managing sepsis. This patient may have sepsis due to a central line-associated bloodstream infection. Removal of the emergently placed central venous catheter is the next critical management step.
Glucocorticoid administration is not recommended for patients without shock or who have responded to fluids and vasopressors because it offers no benefit. Some studies suggest that glucocorticoid therapy might benefit patients who remain hypotensive following adequate fluid resuscitation and vasopressor therapy. It is premature to consider administering glucocorticoids to this patient without first assessing the response to the initial resuscitation attempts.
If hypotension does not rapidly correct with fluids, vasopressors should be titrated to maintain a mean arterial pressure of 65 mm Hg or greater. Norepinephrine is considered first-line therapy. Because fluid resuscitation has just been initiated, it is premature to consider vasopressor therapy. If vasopressor therapy is needed, a new intravenous catheter should be placed rather than using the existing catheter, which is suspected as the source of infection.
The biologic marker procalcitonin may help differentiate between bacterial and nonbacterial pneumonia and help exclude a bacterial community-acquired pneumonia diagnosis in outpatients where there is already low suspicion. Its use promotes lower usage of antibiotics, but mortality benefit is unproven.

**Bibliography**

Rhodes A, Evans LE, Alhazzani W, Levy MM, Antonelli M, Ferrer R, et al. Surviving Sepsis Campaign: international guidelines for management of sepsis and septic shock: 2016. Crit Care Med. 2017;45:486-552. PMID: 28098591 doi:10.1097/CCM.0000000000002255

This content was last updated in October 2020.