
### Correct Answer: A) Actigraphy 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with excessive daytime sleepiness with actigraphy.

#### **Key Point:** The initial step in the evaluation of the patient with excessive daytime sleepiness is to ensure adequate quantities of sleep on a regular basis using either actigraphy or a sleep diary.

The most appropriate management is testing with actigraphy. The initial step in the evaluation of the patient with excessive daytime sleepiness is to ensure adequate quantities (7 to 8 hours) of sleep on a regular basis. This patient's self-report of a variable bedtime and restricted sleep schedule during the workweek raises the possibility of insufficient sleep syndrome. Wrist actigraphy measures movement and ambient light to estimate nightly sleep periods during a 1 to 2 week time frame. Actigraphy is more accurate than patient reports of sleep duration and is likely more accurate than sleep diaries. When actigraphy isn't available, a sleep diary can be a useful alternative. Insufficient sleep syndrome suggested by either actigraphy or sleep diary should prompt a trial of sleep extension.
Modafinil is a stimulant medication used in hypersomnia syndromes such as narcolepsy. It would not be appropriate therapy without first excluding insufficient sleep syndrome.
Multiple sleep latency testing can be useful in the evaluation of pathologic daytime sleepiness (for example, narcolepsy) and may help establish a diagnosis of narcolepsy, but it is resource intensive and expensive. It should be performed only after addressing insufficient sleep quantities and polysomnography has ruled out common sleep disorders such as sleep apnea.
Polysomnography or home sleep testing would be indicated if the clinical history strongly suggested a primary sleep disorder such as obstructive sleep apnea. However, obstructive sleep apnea is unlikely in a young woman who is not overweight and does not have obvious upper airway abnormalities. In addition, the patient is suspected of having a restricted sleep schedule that should be evaluated first with actigraphy.

**Bibliography**

Watson NF, Badr MS, Belenky G, Bliwise DL, Buxton OM, Buysse D, et al; Consensus Conference Panel. Recommended amount of sleep for a healthy adult: a joint consensus statement of the American Academy of Sleep Medicine and Sleep Research Society. J Clin Sleep Med. 2015;11:591-2. PMID: 25979105 doi:10.5664/jcsm.4758

This content was last updated in August 2018.