
### Correct Answer: A) Complicated parapneumonic effusion 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose a complicated parapneumonic effusion.

#### **Key Point:** In general, parapneumonic effusions associated with a pH less than 7.2 or pleural fluid glucose level less than 60 mg/dL (3.3 mmol/L) require thoracostomy drainage in addition to antibiotics.

This patient has community-acquired pneumonia and complicated parapneumonic effusion. A complicated parapneumonic effusion is defined as an effusion associated with a pneumonia that has a pH less than 7.2 and glucose less than 60 mg/dL (3.3 mmol/L). Complicated parapneumonic effusions occur when bacteria invade the pleural space. However, because bacteria may be cleared rapidly from the pleural space, the Gram stain is typically negative and cultures are usually sterile. Complicated parapneumonic effusions have a variable response to antibiotics alone. Pleural effusions greater than 10 mm in depth on chest radiograph and associated with a pneumonic illness should be sampled. In general, these require thoracostomy tube drainage when the pH is less than 7.2 or the pleural fluid glucose level is less than 60 mg/dL (3.3 mmol/L). The American College of Chest Physicians consensus guidelines concur as thoracostomy drainage speeds clinical recovery and hospital discharge.
An empyema is defined as a bacterial infection of the pleural space that results in frank pus on visual inspection of the pleural fluid or a positive Gram stain. A positive pleural fluid culture is not required for diagnosis as cultures are less sensitive than Gram stain in the detection of bacteria. The management of empyema includes early thoracic surgical consultation because thoracoscopic or open debridement and drainage is often required to successfully manage this condition. However, this patient's pleural fluid was described as serous and the Gram stain was negative making empyema an unlikely diagnosis.
Pleural fluid acidosis (pH less than 7.3) is seen in complicated parapneumonic effusions, tuberculous pleuritis, rheumatoid and lupus pleuritis, esophageal rupture, and malignancy. A low pleural fluid glucose level results from either increased utilization within the pleural space (bacteria, malignant cells) or decreased transport into the pleural space (rheumatoid pleurisy), and a concentration less than 60 mg/dL (3.3 mmol/L) narrows the differential diagnosis significantly. Although a malignant effusion can have a low pH and glucose, this patient's presentation is more consistent with a parapneumonic effusion.
An uncomplicated parapneumonic effusion is characterized by a pH greater than 7.2 and glucose greater than 60 mg/dL (3.3 mmol/L). These effusions do not require drainage and typically resolve with antibiotic therapy alone.

**Bibliography**

Colice GL, Curtis A, Deslauriers J, Heffner J, Light R, Littenberg B, et al. Medical and surgical treatment of parapneumonic effusions: an evidence-based guideline. Chest. 2000;118:1158-71. PMID: 11035692

This content was last updated in August 2018.