
### Correct Answer: B) Pneumococcal polysaccharide (PPSV23) and standard influenza 

**Educational Objective:** Provide recommended vaccinations for patients with COPD.

#### **Key Point:** Annual influenza vaccination and the pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine are recommended for all patients with chronic lung disease (COPD, emphysema, asthma).

This patient should receive the pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine and an annual influenza vaccine. Influenza vaccination has been shown to reduce serious illness (such as lower respiratory tract infections that require hospitalization) and death in patients with COPD. These vaccines should be administered annually in all patients with COPD. There are currently three different types of influenza vaccine available in the United States: inactivated influenza vaccine, live attenuated influenza vaccine, and recombinant trivalent influenza vaccine. Inactivated influenza vaccine is approved for use in all adults, including immunosuppressed persons and pregnant women.
A high-dose inactivated influenza vaccine is approved for use in adults age 65 years and older; it has been shown to be modestly more effective than the standard-dose inactivated influenza vaccine in this patient population.
Pneumococcal vaccination is indicated for all adults aged 65 years and older and for high-risk persons younger than 65 years. Two vaccines are currently available: pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV23) is composed of polysaccharide capsular material from 23 pneumococcal subtypes, whereas pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) contains capsular material from 13 subtypes conjugated to a nontoxic protein, which increases its immunogenicity. For pneumococcal vaccine–naïve adults between the ages of 19 and 65 years with certain immunocompromising conditions or who are otherwise at high risk, a single dose of PCV13 should be given. These conditions include functional or anatomic asplenia, cerebrospinal fluid leaks, cochlear implants, and conditions causing immunosuppression. All patients should also receive the 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine at age 65 years, although the polysaccharide and conjugate vaccines should be given sequentially at least a year apart for immunocompetent adults over age 65 rather than together for optimal effect. COPD alone is not an indication for PCV13 vaccination.
PPSV23 has the same indications as the PCV13 vaccine, plus it is indicated in immunocompetent people with certain chronic medical conditions such as heart, liver, and lung disease (COPD, emphysema, asthma) and diabetes, as well as in cigarette smokers. PPSV23 revaccination should be given at age 65 years if 5 years have elapsed since the previous pneumococcal immunization. When possible, the PCV13 vaccine should be administered first, followed by a dose of PPSV23 at least 1 year later for most immunocompetent patients. Some patients with immunocompromising conditions, cochlear implants, or cerebrospinal fluid leaks should receive the dose of PPSV23 at least 8 weeks after the first dose of PCV13. If a patient has already received the PPSV23 vaccine, a single dose of PCV13 should be given at least 1 year after the administration of PPSV23.

**Bibliography**

Kim DK, Riley LE, Hunter P; Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices. Recommended Immunization Schedule for Adults Aged 19 Years or Older, United States, 2018. Ann Intern Med. 2018;168:210-220. PMID: 29404596

This content was last updated in August 2018.