
### Correct Answer: D) Pulmonary thromboendarterectomy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension.

#### **Key Point:** Surgical intervention is the only definitive therapy for chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH), and most patients with CTEPH should be referred for evaluation at a specialty surgical center.

This patient has chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) and the preferred treatment is pulmonary thromboendarterectomy. There are two diagnostic criteria for CTEPH: (1) mean pulmonary artery pressure of 25 mm Hg or higher by right heart catheterization in the absence of left heart pressure overload and (2) compatible imaging evidence of chronic thromboembolism. CT pulmonary angiography (CT-PA) may demonstrate proximally located abnormalities such as vascular webs, intimal irregularities, and luminal narrowing but has limited sensitivity in more distal lesions. Ventilation-perfusion scanning is a more sensitive indicator of CTEPH and is generally the preferred first imaging modality. Once CTEPH is suggested by noninvasive testing, conventional pulmonary angiography should be performed to characterize the extent and distribution of organized thrombus and to determine suitability for surgical intervention. Surgical intervention is the only definitive therapy for CTEPH and can prevent irreversible remodeling of the pulmonary arterial vasculature. Surgical evaluation at an experienced center is warranted in all patients with CTEPH; however, only about half of patients will be surgical candidates and fewer than that will opt for surgery.
Lifelong anticoagulant therapy, traditionally with warfarin, is indicated in all patients to help prevent further thromboembolism. Experience with direct oral anticoagulants such as apixaban is limited in this patient population. Because this patient's INR is in the therapeutic range, there's no proved advantage of switching from warfarin to apixaban.
Inferior vena cava interruption is typically indicated in patients with venous thrombus for whom anticoagulation is ineffective or not tolerated. In patients with CTEPH and coexisting clot in the lower extremities, inferior vena cava interruption can be considered to help prevent further thromboembolism; however, its role in long-term outcomes is not known and of unclear benefit.
Calcium channel blockers such as nifedipine are used in the setting of pulmonary arterial hypertension when right heart catheterization reveals acute vasoreactivity. Their role in the treatment of CTEPH is unproved.

**Bibliography**

Edward JA, Mandras S. An Update on the management of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. Curr Probl Cardiol. 2017;42:7-38. PMID: 27989311 doi:10.1016/j.cpcardiol.2016.11.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.