
### Correct Answer: A) 30-Minute spontaneous breathing trial 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate readiness to liberate from mechanical ventilation in a patient with COPD.

#### **Key Point:** Patients should be assessed daily for their readiness to be removed from mechanical ventilation by performing a spontaneous breathing trial; one criterion for success is the ability to tolerate a spontaneous breathing trial for 30 minutes.

A 30-minute spontaneous breathing trial (SBT) should be performed using low levels of pressure support (8 cm H2O or less). Weaning from mechanical ventilation can start when the precipitating event or underlying condition that caused respiratory failure has resolved or is resolving. Patients should be assessed daily for their readiness to be removed from mechanical ventilation by performing an SBT. There are several methods used to assess if an SBT is successful. One criterion is the ability to tolerate a weaning trial for 30 minutes (in most patients, SBT failure will occur within approximately 20 minutes). 2-hour SBTs and 30-minute SBTs have a similar ability to recognize patients who are unable to breathe spontaneously. However a 30-minute trial has the benefits of less time on mechanical ventilation and less risk of respiratory muscle fatigue. If the patient successfully completes an SBT, the ability to follow commands, clear secretions, and a patent upper airway are other criteria that should be met to increase extubation success.
A “cuff leak” refers to measurable airflow around the endotracheal tube after the cuff of the endotracheal tube is deflated. Absent or minimal cuff leak following deflation of the cuff indicates reduced space between the endotracheal tube and the larynx. Minimal or absent cuff leak may be due to laryngeal edema, laryngeal stenosis, and thick secretions. The test is not standardized and not performed routinely and is not an initial routine test in the process of liberating a patient from mechanical ventilation. It might be considered in a patient who has a successful SBT but is at high risk for edema and stridor following extubation.
The Glasgow Coma Scale is pertinent to the actual extubation process, in which lack of awareness and ability to clear secretions and follow simple commands may increase the risk of aspiration and cooperation in the postextubation period. However, this patient should be placed on an SBT before being evaluated for extubation.
Negative inspiratory force has been used as a marker of inspiratory muscle strength to identify patients who will be able to be liberated from mechanical ventilation. However, there are technical issues that lead to variable predictive performance. A low negative inspiratory force by itself is not useful; however, serial measurements (for example, in patients with Guillain-Barré or myasthenia gravis) along with other measures (FVC, maximum tidal volume) may give a better picture of muscle strength recovery.

**Bibliography**

Schmidt GA, Girard TD, Kress JP, Morris PE, Ouellette DR, Alhazzani W, et al. Liberation from mechanical ventilation in critically ill adults: executive summary of an official American College of Chest Physicians/American Thoracic Society Clinical Practice Guideline. Chest. 2017;151:160-165. PMID: 27818329 doi:10.1016/j.chest.2016.10.037

This content was last updated in August 2018.