
### Correct Answer: C) Tissue plasminogen activator-deoxyribonuclease 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with empyema.

#### **Key Point:** Instillation of intrapleural tissue plasminogen activator-deoxyribonuclease has been shown to decrease the radiographic pleural opacity, lower the rate of surgical referral, and decrease hospital stay of patients with empyema.

Instillation of intrapleural tissue plasminogen activator-deoxyribonuclease (tPA-DNase) is the most appropriate treatment to promote drainage. This patient has a community-acquired pneumonia complicated by an empyema. The diagnostic criterion for empyema is either visualization of frankly purulent pleural fluid or a positive Gram stain. The Gram stain supports the diagnosis of group A pneumoniae pneumonia. An empyema requires drainage to resolve the infection. A small-bore (14-Fr) tube can be placed to facilitate drainage. An empyema can become loculated (divided into small cavities or compartments) and will not resolve with simple thoracostomy drainage; loculated empyemas often require thorascopic or open surgical debridement. This patient has an incompletely drained empyema due to loculation. When performed twice daily for 3 days, intrapleural administration of tPA-DNase has been shown to decrease the radiographic pleural opacity, lower the rate of surgical intervention, and decrease hospital stay of patients with empyema (MIST-2 trial). It should be noted that the tPA-DNase has not been shown to decrease mortality. In addition, video-assisted thorascopic surgery has also been shown to effectively manage empyema in greater than 90% of cases, and a delay in surgery increases the risk of open thoracotomy. Given the lack of prospective data, a multidisciplinary discussion should be undertaken for any patient presenting with an empyema who is a good surgical candidate.
Instillation of intrapleural antibiotic solution may be used for postsurgical empyema but has no demonstrated efficacy in the initial management of a loculated empyema.
The MIST-1 trial compared the use of intrapleural instillation of streptokinase compared to saline and found no difference in mortality, need for surgery, radiographic outcome, or length of hospitalization. Consequently, use of fibrinolytics alone in empyema is not recommended.
Continued systemic antibiotic therapy without adequate drainage of the pleural space is inadequate therapy. Failure to adequately drain the pleural space of a complicated pleural effusion or empyema will result in failure to resolve the infection, increased morbidity, and the possibility of death by overwhelming infection.

**Bibliography**

Rahman NM, Maskell NA, West A, Teoh R, Arnold A, Mackinlay C, et al. Intrapleural use of tissue plasminogen activator and DNase in pleural infection. N Engl J Med. 2011;365:518-26. PMID: 21830966 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1012740

This content was last updated in August 2018.