
### Correct Answer: D) Methacholine challenge testing 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose asthma in a symptomatic patient with normal spirometry.

#### **Key Point:** The diagnosis of asthma requires demonstrating reversible airflow obstruction; for a patient with symptoms of asthma and normal spirometry, methacholine challenge testing to evaluate for bronchial hyperresponsiveness is indicated.

Methacholine challenge testing is the most appropriate test to perform next for this patient with persistent cough following a presumed viral upper respiratory tract infection. These symptoms can be the initial presentation of asthma, which is common in patients older than 65 years, with a prevalence of 8.1%; this age group also has the highest mortality rate, particularly in low-income Hispanic and black women. However, asthma is currently underdiagnosed and undertreated in patients older than 65 years in the United States. In patients with clinical symptoms suggestive of bronchospastic disease (such as cough or unexplained dyspnea) but with normal spirometry, bronchial challenge testing may be diagnostically helpful. Bronchial challenge testing uses a controlled inhaled stimulus to induce bronchospasm in association with spirometry; a positive test is indicated by a drop in the measured FEV1. This symptomatic patient's spirometry is normal; therefore, methacholine challenge testing to evaluate for bronchial hyperresponsiveness is indicated.
Echocardiography could help evaluate cardiac function but the patient does not have findings of heart murmur or heart failure so this test would not be indicated.
Exhaled nitric oxide testing is a noninvasive breath test. Nitric oxide is normally present in airways but is increased in certain types of airway inflammation (asthma, eosinophilic airway inflammation). When elevated, it supports the diagnosis of asthma in the appropriate clinical context. Other factors may affect nitric oxide values such as age, sex, atopy, and cigarette smoking so a normal level in an older adult would not rule out asthma. The sensitivity and specificity of exhaled nitric oxide in the diagnosis of asthma are not well defined, particularly in patients with confounding variables, and it is not the preferred next test for this patient.
High-resolution CT (HRCT) is indicated if diffuse parenchymal lung disease is suspected. HRCT can help narrow the differential diagnosis based on the distribution of the lung parenchymal abnormalities and the presence or absence of associated findings. HRCT scan of the chest would not help confirm a diagnosis of asthma.
Nasal swab for influenza polymerase chain reaction would not be indicated because the patient's symptoms of a viral infection have resolved; furthermore, influenza testing in immunocompetent adults should be performed within 5 days of symptom onset.

**Bibliography**

Al-Alawi M, Hassan T, Chotirmall SH. Advances in the diagnosis and management of asthma in older adults. Am J Med. 2014;127:370-8. PMID: 24380710 doi:10.1016/j.amjmed.2013.12.013

This content was last updated in March 2021.