
### Correct Answer: B) Epinephrine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient who has anaphylaxis with epinephrine.

#### **Key Point:** Epinephrine is the appropriate initial treatment of anaphylaxis.

This patient should be treated with epinephrine. Anaphylaxis is defined as a severe, potentially life-threatening allergic or hypersensitivity reaction that occurs within seconds to a few hours of allergen exposure, most commonly food, medication, or an insect sting. Classically, anaphylaxis occurs when allergen-specific IgE coating the surface of mast cells and basophils comes in contact with the triggering allergen, thereby precipitating cellular degranulation. The resulting abrupt systemic release of a host of mediators has various effects, including vasoconstriction, vasodilation, increased vascular permeability, and bronchoconstriction. The presentation is variable and findings may include flushing, urticaria, and angioedema (85%); wheeze, stridor, and respiratory distress (70%); and hypotension and tachycardia (less commonly bradycardia) (45%). Initial symptoms and findings may be mild but predicting the ultimate severity of the episode is difficult. The first step in treatment is immediate intramuscular or intravenous administration of epinephrine. There are studies showing increased mortality from anaphylaxis if epinephrine is delayed. The dose may be repeated after 5-15 minutes, or administered continuously as an intravenous solution (although at a lower concentration), until the effects are apparent. Patients can also be given supplemental oxygen and monitored for signs of airway compromise, which may require intubation to maintain airway patency. Following recovery, patients should maintain home access to an epinephrine auto-injector and may benefit from evaluation for anaphylactic triggers.
Diphenhydramine, a histamine1-blocker, is often given because of its effect on itching and urticaria, but it has never been shown to effectively treat distributive shock, airway edema, or outcome in anaphylaxis. It is not a substitute for epinephrine.
Although intravenous fluids are often needed to manage anaphylaxis, they are reserved for use in cases where hypotension persists despite treatment with epinephrine.
Glucocorticoids are often given to reduce the risk of recurrent or persistent symptoms. However, there are no randomized controlled trials that confirm the effectiveness of glucocorticoids in preventing symptom recurrence. More clinically relevant, a study of emergency department patients with anaphylaxis treated with glucocorticoids did not demonstrate a reduction in return visits to the emergency department for recurrent symptoms.

**Bibliography**

Commins SP. Outpatient emergencies: anaphylaxis. Med Clin North Am. 2017;101:521-536. PMID: 28372711 doi:10.1016/j.mcna.2016.12.003

This content was last updated in August 2018.