
### Correct Answer: C) Early mobilization 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient on mechanical ventilation for delirium using nonpharmacologic interventions.

#### **Key Point:** Early mobilization with physical and occupational therapy and interruption of sedation should be used to prevent and treat delirium in critically ill patients.

Early mobilization with physical and occupational therapy and interruption of sedation should be used to decrease the duration of delirium. This patient has acute onset of cognitive dysfunction, impairment of attention, and fluctuating mental status, which are features of delirium. Increased or decreased psychomotor activity, disorganized thinking, disorientation, and perceptual disturbances are other supportive features. The use of a screening instrument (such as the Confusion Assessment Method) allows for improved recognition and diagnosis of delirium. Delirium contributes to length of ICU stay, morbidity, mortality, and post-intensive care cognitive impairment. A study of critically ill patients on mechanical ventilation demonstrated that an early physical and occupational therapy program reduced delirium by 2 days compared to controls.
Haloperidol is used to decrease hyperactive features of delirium. Currently, there is no strong evidence in favor of its use for treating delirium in critically ill patients.
Current guidelines for sedation in the ICU favor strategies that control pain, target lighter sedation, avoid benzodiazepines, and favor early mobility. The use of benzodiazepines is associated with an increased incidence of delirium, and would not be appropriate for this patient showing signs of delirium when compared with nonbenzodiazepine sedation strategies.
The practice of having all critically ill patients on mechanical ventilation receive continuous deep sedation is no longer followed, thus increasing the propofol dosage would not be appropriate. A practice-changing trial demonstrated that daily interruption of sedation decreased length of mechanical ventilation and stay in the ICU. Recent trials demonstrated that the use of a light sedation protocol had similar patient outcomes to daily interruption of sedation. Light levels of sedation using a protocol are associated with shorter length of mechanical ventilation and ICU stay.

**Bibliography**

Schweickert WD, Pohlman MC, Pohlman AS, et al: Early physical and occupational therapy in mechanically ventilated, critically ill patients: a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2009; 373:1874– 1882 PMID: 19446324

This content was last updated in August 2018.