
### Correct Answer: D) Ventilate the patient in the prone position 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with severe acute respiratory distress syndrome using early prone positioning.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with severe acute respiratory distress syndrome have a demonstrated mortality benefit from low tidal volume ventilation in the prone position.

This patient should be ventilated in the prone position. In patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) low tidal volume ventilation (6-8 mL/kg ideal body weight) is optimal and is associated with significantly better outcomes than conventional, higher tidal volume ventilation (10-12 mL/kg). In patients with severe ARDS, several adjunctive therapies have been studied, but few have demonstrated additional improved outcomes beyond low tidal volume ventilation. However, in 2013, the PROSEVA trial evaluated patients with ARDS who had an arterial PO2/FIO2 ratio of less than 150 (defining severe ARDS) despite significant ventilator support. Patients were randomized to conventional therapy or low tidal volume ventilation plus prone positioning within 36 hours of developing ARDS and respiratory failure. The results suggested a 16.2% reduction in 28-day all-cause mortality in the prone-position group. The 2017 American Thoracic Society, European Society of Intensive Care Medicine, and Society of Critical Care Medicine (ATS/ESICM/SCCM) guideline makes a strong recommendation that all patients with ARDS receive ventilation with lower tidal volumes (4-8 mL/kg of predicted body weight). Patients with severe ARDS should be also ventilated in the prone position for at least 12 hours per day. Proning should be considered standard management for patients with severe ARDS, not a form of “rescue” or “salvage” therapy.
Recruitment is the application of a high level of continuous positive airway pressure to open up collapsed alveoli (for example, continuous pressure to 35 cm H2O for 40 seconds). The ATS/ESICM/SCCM guideline provides a conditional recommendation for recruitment maneuvers based on low to moderate confidence in the small to moderate magnitude of its effect on mortality. The guideline cautions that recruitment should not be used in patients with preexisting hypovolemia or shock due to hemodynamic deterioration, which can occur during the maneuver. This patient is hypotensive and, therefore, not a candidate for recruitment maneuvers.
Nitric oxide (NO) selectively dilates the pulmonary vasculature when administered by inhalation. Its use in acute hypoxemic respiratory failure is based on the rationale that inhaled NO may improve ventilation-perfusion mismatch. Studies of inhaled NO in patients with severe ARDS have demonstrated temporary improvement in oxygenation but no improvement in survival.
In 2013 two large, prospective randomized trials demonstrated that compared to low tidal volume ventilation, high-frequency oscillator ventilation was either no different or harmful to patients with ARDS. In light of this, the ATS/ESICM/SCCM guideline strongly recommends against routine use of high-frequency oscillatory ventilation.

**Bibliography**

Fan E, Del Sorbo L, Goligher EC, Hodgson CL, Munshi L, Walkey AJ, et al; American Thoracic Society, European Society of Intensive Care Medicine, and Society of Critical Care Medicine. An official American Thoracic Society/European Society of Intensive Care Medicine/Society of Critical Care Medicine clinical practice guideline: mechanical ventilation in adult patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2017;195:1253-1263. PMID: 28459336 doi:10.1164/rccm.201703-0548ST

This content was last updated in August 2018.