
### Correct Answer: B) Acute silicosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose a patient with acute silicosis.

#### **Key Point:** Patients who work in industries that expose them to silica dust are at risk for silicosis.

This patient most likely has acute silicosis, a fibrotic lung disease caused by the inhalation of silica dust. Silicosis is a spectrum of fibrotic lung diseases related to the inhalation of silica dust. Any occupation that disturbs the earth's crust involves potential risk. Workers in industries that process silica-containing rock or sand are also at risk. The typical disease course of simple silicosis can be accelerated (3 to 10 years after exposure) or latent (greater than 10 years after exposure). This patient has acute silicosis, a rare presentation characterized by onset of cough and dyspnea (but no fever) just a few weeks after intense exposure, patchy bilateral opacities on chest radiograph, and a milky effluent from bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL). Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, is a process whereby large amounts of water and chemicals are injected into the ground; sand, which contains silica, is used to hold open the fissures created to enhance extraction of natural gas. Acute silicosis portends a poor prognosis, as there is little evidence that any therapies can alter disease course. However, removal from the environment and smoking cessation will prevent further lung injury.
Acute interstitial pneumonia develops rapidly during days to weeks and results in progressive hypoxemic respiratory failure. Radiographic examination reveals bilateral alveolar opacities consistent with pulmonary edema. The findings on BAL are nonspecific. This patient's findings are not compatible with acute interstitial pneumonia.
Workers in the mining industry are at risk for asbestos exposure, but the typical latency period for asbestosis is decades rather than weeks, making this diagnosis unlikely. In addition, the most common radiographic finding of asbestosis is pleural plaques, which are not present on this patient's radiograph.
Patients with cryptogenic organizing pneumonia typically present with cough, dyspnea, fever, and malaise during 3 to 4 weeks that mimic community-acquired pneumonia. The chest radiograph reveals bilateral, patchy or diffuse, consolidative or ground-glass opacities and BAL effluent is not milky opaque.

**Bibliography**

Esswein EJ, Breitenstein M, Snawder J, Kiefer M, Sieber WK. Occupational exposures to respirable crystalline silica during hydraulic fracturing. J Occup Environ Hyg. 2013;10:347-56. PMID: 23679563 doi:10.1080/15459624.2013.788352

This content was last updated in August 2018.