
### Correct Answer: C) Medical Research Council muscle scale 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose ICU-acquired weakness in a critically ill patient using the Medical Research Council muscle scale.

#### **Key Point:** Initial evaluation for ICU-acquired weakness can be done at the bedside using the Medical Research Council muscle scale.

Although rarely used in practice, the most appropriate initial test to perform is the Medical Research Council (MRC) muscle scale. This patient has symmetrical quadriparesis and distal sensory neuropathy after sepsis and should be evaluated for ICU-acquired weakness. ICU-acquired weakness is the presence of profound muscles weakness in the setting of a current or recent critical illness. The MRC scale is most appropriately used in awake and cooperative patients. In such a patient, muscle strength of each extremity can be tested and graded from 0 (no movement) to 5 (normal). Summing the maximum score for 3 movements of each upper extremity (shoulder abduction, elbow flexion, wrist extension) and each lower extremity (hip flexion, knee extension, ankle dorsiflexion) can result in a maximum score of 60. In the absence of other known causes of muscular weakness, a score less than 48 is considered diagnostic of ICU-acquired weakness. The MRC muscle scale has several limitations; however, it is universally available, easy to perform, and can guide management decisions.
Cervical spine MRI is an excellent imaging modality to detect a cervical epidural abscess in a patient with a history of bacteremia and supportive physical examination findings. However, the patient does not have numbness of the arms or increased tone and hyperreflexia of the lower extremities to support the diagnosis of a cervical myelopathy.
Electrodiagnostic testing can help establish the diagnosis of critical care polyneuropathy, critical care myopathy, or their combination, and provide clues to other causes of prolonged weakness (for example, acute inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy). However, the test is not universally available in all ICU centers, is invasive, may not affect management of patients with ICU-acquired weakness, and should not precede careful evaluation of the patient with the MRC scale.
Similarly, a muscle biopsy can also aid diagnosis of critical illness myopathy, especially in the setting of elevated serum creatine kinase levels, but it would not be an appropriate initial test.

**Bibliography**

Fan E, Cheek F, Chlan L, Gosselink R, Hart N, Herridge MS, et al; ATS Committee on ICU-Acquired Weakness in Adults. An official American Thoracic Society Clinical Practice guideline: the diagnosis of intensive care unit-acquired weakness in adults. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2014;190:1437-46. PMID: 25496103 doi:10.1164/rccm.201411-2011ST

This content was last updated in August 2018.