
### Correct Answer: C) Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose cryptogenic organizing pneumonia.

#### **Key Point:** A typical presentation of cryptogenic organizing pneumonia includes cough, fever, and malaise for 6 to 8 weeks that does not respond to antibiotics; patchy opacities on chest radiograph; and ground-glass opacities on CT scan that are peripherally distributed; glucocorticoids are first-line therapy.

The most likely diagnosis is cryptogenic organizing pneumonia. This patient has a subacute history of progressive dyspnea and persistent cough after an initial history consistent with community-acquired pneumonia. Despite treatment with appropriate antibiotic therapy, she now has clear evidence of new opacities that are located in different areas, are peripherally predominant, and coalesce along broncho-vascular bundles. These findings are consistent with a diagnosis of organizing pneumonia, which involves proliferation of granulation tissue within alveolar ducts, alveolar spaces, and surrounding areas of chronic inflammation. There are many known causes of this pattern, including acute infections and autoimmune disorders like rheumatoid arthritis. The term cryptogenic organizing pneumonia is reserved for individuals who have this pattern but do not have a clear associated cause. Patients with cryptogenic organizing pneumonia will typically present with a 6-to-8-week history of symptoms that mimic community-acquired pneumonia. Typically, an initial empiric treatment of infection is given but fails; subsequently, noninfectious causes are considered. This patient has a subacute illness that began with viral symptoms, persistent and progressive cough and dyspnea that are not responsive to past antibiotics, and radiographic findings typical of cryptogenic organizing pneumonia. Patients with cryptogenic organizing pneumonia respond well to glucocorticoids. Glucocorticoids are slowly tapered during the subsequent 6 months.
Acute HIV is unlikely in this patient who initially presented with symptoms of community-acquired pneumonia and whose fever has resolved. Although acute HIV symptoms are not specific, the most common presentation includes persistence of symptoms including fever.
Recurrent community-acquired pneumonia is also unlikely in this patient who was appropriately treated with azithromycin and whose symptoms have partially improved with resolution of the fever and sputum production.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a disease that affects older patients (the mean age of presentation is in the mid- to late 60s) and presents with chronic (longer than 6 months) symptoms of dry cough and shortness of breath. This patient's presentation is not consistent with these criteria, making a diagnosis of IPF unlikely.

**Bibliography**

Lazor R, Vandevenne A, Pelletier A, Leclerc P, Court-Fortune I, Cordier JF. Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia. Characteristics of relapses in a series of 48 patients. The Groupe d’Etudes et de Recherche sur les Maladles “Orphelines” Pulmonaires (GERM”O”P). Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2000;162:571-7. PMID: 10934089

This content was last updated in August 2018.