
### Correct Answer: A) Add recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with a hemodynamically unstable pulmonary embolism using thrombolytic therapy.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with pulmonary embolism and hemodynamic collapse, treatment with thrombolytics is associated with decreased mortality and improvement in clinical and echocardiographic parameters.

The most appropriate treatment is thrombolytic therapy with a recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA). This patient has a large pulmonary embolism and is most likely becoming hypotensive from acute right ventricular (RV) failure. RV failure is the leading cause of death among patients with acute pulmonary embolism. In patients with hemodynamic collapse, treatment with thrombolytics is associated with decreased mortality and improvement in clinical and echocardiographic parameters. Although this patient has no contraindications to rtPA, thrombolytics carry a significant side effect profile, including an up to 2% risk of intracranial hemorrhage, but this should be considered relative in patients with life-threatening, high-risk pulmonary embolism. In patients with contraindications to thrombolysis, and in those in whom thrombolysis has failed to improve the hemodynamic status, surgical or catheter-based embolectomy should be considered if surgical expertise and resources are available.
According to the Apixaban for the Initial Management of Pulmonary Embolism and Deep-Vein Thrombosis as First-line Therapy (AMPLIFY) study, apixaban is an equivalent option to conventional heparin therapy for the initial treatment of pulmonary embolism. In this patient with hemodynamic collapse, it would not be more beneficial than low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) and is less beneficial than rtPA therapy.
In patients with acute pulmonary embolism, unfractionated heparin, LMWH, a new oral anticoagulant such as apixiban, or fondaparinux (a factor Xa inhibitor) should be started immediately unless otherwise contraindicated. Because this patient is experiencing hemodynamic collapse despite therapy with LMWH, continuing that treatment alone would not be appropriate.
Treatment of patients with acute pulmonary embolism with unfractionated heparin infusion appears to be associated with increased risk of adverse effect compared to LMWH administration. The 2014 European Society of Cardiology guidelines for diagnosis and management of pulmonary embolism recommends LMWH or fondaparinux rather than unfractionated heparin in hemodynamically stable patients because they are associated with a lower risk of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and major bleeding events. However, the guidelines caution that LMWH and fondaparinux have not been tested in the setting of hypotension and shock and thus are not preferred modes of initial anticoagulation in that patient population.

**Bibliography**

Konstantinides SV, Torbicki A, Agnelli G, Danchin N, Fitzmaurice D, Galiè N, et al; Task Force for the Diagnosis and Management of Acute Pulmonary Embolism of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC). 2014 ESC guidelines on the diagnosis and management of acute pulmonary embolism. Eur Heart J. 2014;35:3033-69, 3069a-3069k. PMID: 25173341 doi:10.1093/eurheartj/ehu283

This content was last updated in August 2018.