
### Correct Answer: D) Switch to parenteral nutrition 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a malnourished, critically ill patient using parenteral nutrition.

#### **Key Point:** Parenteral nutrition should be started as soon as possible for severely malnourished patients or those at high risk of malnutrition for whom enteral nutrition is not possible.

This patient should receive parenteral nutrition. Nutrition is an essential part of management for patients in the ICU and can be given enterally or parenterally, with the enteral route preferred. Initiation of enteral nutrition is recommended at 24 to 48 hours following admission if the patient is hemodynamically stable, with advancement to goal by 48 to 72 hours. Benefits include fewer infections and possibly reduced mortality. For patients with adequate nutritional status but who have contraindications to enteral nutrition or do not tolerate enteral nutrition, parenteral nutrition is delayed for 1 to 2 weeks based upon evidence that early parenteral nutrition may increase the risk of infection. For patients with inadequate nutrition (or who are at high risk for malnutrition) who have contraindications or intolerance of enteral nutrition, parenteral nutrition should be initiated as soon as possible. This practice is based on two meta-analyses showing early parenteral nutrition in poorly nourished patients is associated with fewer complications and decreased mortality. This patient has several features consistent with severe malnutrition (temporal wasting, edema, hypoglycemia, poorly healing wounds), as well as ileus and evidence of enteral nutrition intolerance (nausea, vomiting).
The patient is obviously not tolerating enteral nutrition, as evidenced by her clinical nutritional status, nausea, vomiting, and distended abdomen. Continuing enteral nutrition would not be appropriate.
Measurement of gastric residual volume is no longer recommended for routine monitoring of enteral nutrition because it does not affect outcomes. In this patient, it is clinically apparent that she is not tolerating enteral nutrition, and measurement of gastric residual volume will not add clinically useful information.
Metoclopramide improves enteral nutrition tolerance but does not affect patient outcomes and is associated with adverse events (diarrhea, QT prolongation, tardive dyskinesia, cardiac toxicity). Because of this patient's recent surgery, she should first be started on parenteral nutrition and evaluated for a mechanical cause of bowel obstruction. Metoclopramide and other prokinetic agents are contraindicated in the presence of mechanical small bowel obstruction.

**Bibliography**

Taylor BE, McClave SA, Martindale RG, Warren MM, Johnson DR, Braunschweig C, et al; Society of Critical Care Medicine. Guidelines for the provision and assessment of nutrition support therapy in the adult critically ill patient: Society of Critical Care Medicine (SCCM) and American Society for Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition (A.S.P.E.N.). Crit Care Med. 2016;44:390-438. PMID: 26771786 doi:10.1097/CCM.0000000000001525

This content was last updated in August 2018.