
### Correct Answer: D) Respiratory bronchiolitis-associated interstitial lung disease 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose respiratory bronchiolitis-associated interstitial lung disease.

#### **Key Point:** Respiratory bronchiolitis–associated interstitial lung disease is found in active smokers who have chest CT scan findings of centrilobular micronodules.

The most likely diagnosis is respiratory bronchiolitis-associated interstitial lung disease (RB-ILD). Evidence of RB-ILD is found on approximately 5% to 25% of cancer-screening CT scans. RB-ILD is used to describe disease in active smokers who have imaging findings of centrilobular micronodules with a pathologic finding of respiratory bronchiolitis and tan-pigmented macrophages (smokers' macrophages) on biopsy. Patients with RB-ILD are often asymptomatic. Symptomatic patients are typically smokers presenting in their fourth and fifth decades of smoking with cough and dyspnea and bibasilar inspiratory crackles. There are two other disorders that generally only develop in individuals who have an active smoking history. These are desquamative interstitial pneumonia and pulmonary Langerhans cell histiocytosis. Pulmonary function tests usually reveal an obstructive pattern with a decreased DLCO in individuals with more severe disease. For those with milder disease, pulmonary function tests can be normal, restrictive, or obstructive. Cessation of smoking is the primary management.
Desquamative interstitial pneumonia is due to extensive, diffuse macrophage filling of alveolar spaces with predominant cough and dyspnea symptoms and bilateral ground-glass opacities on chest imaging. This patient's symptoms and CT findings are not compatible with this disease.
CT scan findings of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis include basal- and peripheral-predominant septal line thickening with traction bronchiectasis and honeycomb changes. This is the usual interstitial pneumonia pattern and can be seen in connective tissue disease, asbestosis, and chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis; idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a diagnosis of exclusion. The CT scan findings are not consistent with this diagnosis.
Pulmonary Langerhans cell histiocytosis is characterized by middle and upper zone thin-walled cysts with accompanying nodules and is often associated with pulmonary hypertension. Patients tend to be young adults with cough and dyspnea. Thin-walled cysts are not present in this patient's CT scan, making this diagnosis unlikely.

**Bibliography**

Chung JH, Richards JC, Koelsch TL, MacMahon H, Lynch DA. Screening for lung cancer: incidental pulmonary parenchymal findings. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2017:1-11. PMID: 29231759 doi:10.2214/AJR.17.19003

This content was last updated in August 2018.