
### Correct Answer: D) Sputum sample for acid-fast bacillus 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient with chronic silicosis and likely tuberculosis infection.

#### **Key Point:** Tuberculosis should be strongly considered when a patient with silicosis develops constitutional symptoms, worsening respiratory impairment, hemoptysis, or changes in the chest radiograph, particularly cavities.

The most appropriate management is a sputum sample for acid-fast bacillus. This patient has constitutional symptoms that include night sweats, unintentional weight loss, hemoptysis, and upper-lobe cavitary disease on chest radiograph. Reactivation tuberculosis most commonly involves the apical-posterior segments of the upper lobe; cavitation is present in up to 40% of cases. Tuberculosis should be strongly considered when a patient with silicosis develops constitutional symptoms, worsening respiratory impairment, hemoptysis, or changes in the chest radiograph, particularly cavities. Chronic silicosis adversely affects macrophage function and is clearly associated with the development of infection with tuberculosis. Concomitant silicosis and tuberculosis is associated with a substantially increased risk of mortality. Therefore, a high index of suspicion for this complication of chronic silicosis is essential to ensure early and appropriate medical therapy.
Aspergilloma is generally a consequence of colonization of a preexisting pulmonary cavity or cyst or in areas of devitalized lung. Symptoms include cough, hemoptysis, dyspnea, weight loss, fever, fatigue, and chest pain. Radiographic images show a round mass within a pulmonary cavity or cyst. Sputum cultures or IgG antibody are usually positive. This patient's chest radiograph is not consistent with an aspergilloma, and aspergillosis IgG antibody testing is not necessary.
Mine workers are often exposed to radon and several kinds of dust, and they have high rates of tobacco use; however, the development of silicosis is also an independent risk factor for the development of lung cancer. Nevertheless, bronchoscopy with transbronchial biopsy would not be appropriate for this patient. Although he has a substantially increased risk of lung cancer, the chest radiograph does not clearly demonstrate a target for biopsy. Furthermore, pursuing bronchoscopy without first ensuring there is not an active tuberculosis infection potentially places health care workers at risk for infection.
A high-resolution CT scan of the chest may identify additional findings not visible on the chest radiograph, but it will not change the need to rule out tuberculosis, which is a common comorbidity of chronic silicosis.

**Bibliography**

Nasrullah M, Mazurek JM, Wood JM, Bang KM, Kreiss K. Silicosis mortality with respiratory tuberculosis in the United States, 1968-2006. Am J Epidemiol. 2011;174:839-48. PMID: 21828370 doi:10.1093/aje/kwr159

This content was last updated in August 2018.