
### Correct Answer: C) Fixed upper airway obstruction 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose upper airway obstruction using a flow-volume loop.

#### **Key Point:** Flattening of both the inspiratory and expiratory curve of the flow-volume loop suggests a fixed intrathoracic lesion; direct examination of the airways is indicated to confirm the finding and identify the cause.

The most likely diagnosis is fixed upper airway obstruction. Flow-volume loops graphically plot pulmonary airflow during exhalation and inspiration, with characteristic patterns associated with specific clinical conditions. The normal expiratory portion of the flow-volume loop (above the x-axis) is characterized by a rapid rise to the peak flow rate, followed by a nearly linear fall in flow as the patient exhales. The inspiratory curve (below the x-axis) appears as a semicircle. Flattening of both the inspiratory and expiratory curve of the flow-volume loop suggests this patient has a fixed intrathoracic lesion, such as tracheal stenosis, which can be seen postintubation. Spirometry is relatively insensitive to all but severe (greater than 71%) intrathoracic airway obstruction. Therefore, if intrathoracic airway obstruction is suspected, appearance of a normal flow-volume loop should not discourage further evaluation.
Patients with asthma would be expected to have an obstructive pattern, although patients without active symptoms can have a completely normal loop.
Patients with COPD demonstrate an obstructive pattern of the flow-volume loop. This is typically manifested by a fairly normal initial portion of the expiratory flow loop, with increased concavity of the terminal portion, indicating airway narrowing during exhalation.
The flow-volume loop demonstrates reduced inspiratory and expiratory volumes, and not the normal pattern described above.

**Bibliography**

Murgu SD, Egressy K, Laxmanan B, Doblare G, Ortiz-Comino R, Hogarth DK. Central airway obstruction: benign strictures, tracheobronchomalacia, and malignancy-related obstruction. Chest. 2016;150:426-41. PMID: 26874192 doi:10.1016/j.chest.2016.02.001

This content was last updated in August 2018.