
### Correct Answer: D) Restart previous medications 

**Educational Objective:** Treat asthma during pregnancy.

#### **Key Point:** Treatment of asthma during pregnancy is similar to treatment in nonpregnant patients.

This patient's previous medications of albuterol and budesonide should be restarted. Asthma management during pregnancy should consist of optimization of anti-inflammatory therapy, management of gastroesophageal reflux, and smoking cessation. Inhaled glucocorticoids are considered safe in pregnancy, and abundant long-term safety evidence exists for budesonide. With the exception of zileuton, most leukotriene modifiers are also considered safe in pregnancy. The treatment of asthma in pregnancy is very similar to treatment in nonpregnant patients. This patient has mild persistent asthma, with symptoms more than twice weekly, and use of low-dose inhaled glucocorticoids plus a short-acting β2-agonist is the recommended therapy. The risks to the fetus of untreated asthma are significantly greater than the risks of asthma medications. Maternal asthma increases the risk of perinatal mortality, preterm birth, low-birth-weight infants, and preeclampsia. Budesonide is the preferred inhaled glucocorticoid to use in pregnant asthma patients because there are more data available concerning budesonide use in pregnancy than the other inhaled glucocorticoid formulations. However, there are no studies indicating that other inhaled glucocorticoid formulations are unsafe in pregnancy, so if a patient's asthma is well controlled on another inhaled glucocorticoid, it is not necessary to change to budesonide during pregnancy.
Treatment with a regular daily low-dose inhaled glucocorticoid and an as-needed short-acting β2-agonist (SABA) is highly effective in reducing asthma symptoms, severe exacerbations, hospitalization, and death. For patients with persistent symptoms and/or exacerbations despite use of a low-dose glucocorticoid and an as-needed SABA, the preferred step-up therapy is a combination low-dose inhaled glucocorticoid and long-acting β2 agonist such as fluticasone-salmeterol.
Prednisone is used to treat asthma exacerbations, and all patients with asthma should have a written asthma action plan to manage an exacerbation and begin self-treatment. Therefore, although prednisone may be part of this patient's asthma management plan, it is not indicated for treatment of her current symptoms of mild persistent asthma.
This patient is experiencing frequent symptoms of asthma and would benefit from treatment. Therefore, peak flow monitoring alone is not appropriate without initiation of pharmacotherapy.

**Bibliography**

Bonham CA, Patterson KC, Strek ME. Asthma outcomes and management during pregnancy. Chest. 2018;153:515-527. PMID: 28867295 doi:10.1016/j.chest.2017.08.029

This content was last updated in October 2021.