
### Correct Answer: B) High-resolution chest CT scan 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with diffuse parenchymal lung disease using high-resolution chest CT scan.

#### **Key Point:** High-resolution chest CT scan is the preferred advanced imaging modality for suspected diffuse parenchymal lung disease; it can help narrow the differential diagnosis based on the character and distribution of the lung parenchymal abnormalities.

High-resolution CT (HRCT) scan of the chest is the most appropriate test. The choice of imaging modality in the evaluation of pulmonary disease is dependent on the information being sought based on the differential diagnosis. HRCT scan is indicated if diffuse parenchymal lung disease (DPLD) is suspected. The diagnostic approach to DPLD is grounded in the predominant pattern of abnormalities, distribution of disease, and associated findings (pleural plaques, calcifications, effusions, lymphadenopathy). HRCT scan provides more detail than either chest radiography or conventional CT scanning and can more accurately assess the pattern and distribution of DPLD. This patient's history, physical findings, pulmonary function tests, radiography results, and family history strongly suggest the diagnosis of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. An HRCT scan will allow for better characterization of pattern and distribution of the opacities on chest radiograph and will help diagnose the underlying disease.
Contrast-enhanced chest CT scan may be added to the study to better evaluate the mediastinal structures (for example, to assess for lymphadenopathy). However, there is no suggestion of mediastinal abnormality on the chest radiograph; rather, the patient's history, physical examination findings, and chest radiograph more strongly suggest DPLD, and HRCT is the preferred imaging modality in that situation.
Patients who meet criteria for lung-cancer screening should undergo imaging with low-dose chest CT scan to minimize radiation exposure. Low-dose chest CT images utilize a lower total radiation dose than standard CT chest protocols. The lower dose of radiation decreases the radiation to patients and is as effective as standard-dose CT in imaging lung nodules owing to the high inherent contrast between lung tissue and air. Low-dose CT scan is a good modality to screen for pulmonary nodules but not a good modality to assess DPLD.
Patients with a pulmonary nodule or other findings suggestive of malignancy may require PET/CT imaging. This test most commonly uses fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) as a metabolic marker to identify rapidly dividing cells such as tumor cells. A nodule that demonstrates no FDG uptake is unlikely to be malignant. Any disease with metabolic activity, including infection, inflammation, and malignancy, can cause an FDG-avid nodule. PET/CT imaging would not be helpful in the evaluation of DPLD.

**Bibliography**

Walsh SL, Hansell DM. High-resolution CT of interstitial lung disease: a continuous evolution. Semin Respir Crit Care Med. 2014;35:129-44. PMID: 24481766 doi:10.1055/s-0033-1363458

This content was last updated in August 2018.