
### Correct Answer: D) Thoracoscopy and pleural biopsy 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate recurrent unilateral exudative effusion for malignancy.

#### **Key Point:** For patients with negative cytology in whom malignancy is suspected, thoracoscopy with pleural biopsy allows for direct visualization of the pleural surface and has a diagnostic sensitivity for malignant disease of greater than 90%.

This patient should be referred for thoracoscopy and pleural biopsy. He has a recurrent exudative pleural effusion. The characterization of pleural fluid as a transudate or exudate helps narrow the differential diagnosis and direct subsequent investigations. An effusion is considered an exudate if any of the following criteria are met: pleural fluid total protein/serum total protein greater than 0.5; pleural fluid lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)/serum LDH greater than 0.6; pleural fluid LDH greater than 2/3 the upper limit of normal for serum LDH. This patient has an exudate. Despite the negative chest radiograph and CT scan, this exudate is concerning for malignancy considering his age, smoking history, and work in a shipyard with potential exposure to asbestos. The cytology of the pleural fluid was negative, but cytology is only 60% sensitive for malignancy.
Closed pleural biopsy is less sensitive than cytology and should not be performed.
A chylous effusion can be suspected by its milky appearance (seen in 50% of patients) and is associated with traumatic and nontraumatic etiologies. Nontraumatic chylous effusion is most commonly due to malignancy (lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, metastatic cancer). Traumatic chylous effusions are most commonly associated with thoracic surgical procedures. A pleural fluid triglyceride level greater than 110 mg/dL (1.24 mmol/L) is characteristic of a chylothorax. There is no reason to suspect a chylothorax at this point; thoracoscopic pleural biopsy will be of higher diagnostic yield.
The yield of sending more than two cytology specimens taken on different occasions is low. If cytology is negative and malignancy is still suspected, thoracoscopy with pleural biopsy allows for direct visualization of the pleural surface and has greater than 90% sensitivity for the diagnosis of malignancy.

**Bibliography**

Hooper C, Lee YC, Maskell N; BTS Pleural Guideline Group. Investigation of a unilateral pleural effusion in adults: British Thoracic Society Pleural Disease Guideline 2010. Thorax. 2010;65 Suppl 2:ii4-17. PMID: 20696692 doi:10.1136/thx.2010.136978

This content was last updated in August 2018.