
### Correct Answer: C) High-resolution CT scan of the chest 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose interstitial lung disease with a high-resolution CT scan of the chest.

#### **Key Point:** High-resolution CT scan of the chest is standard care for evaluating parenchymal opacities seen on a plain radiograph.

This patient should receive a high-resolution CT (HRCT) scan of the chest. He has symptoms of progressive dyspnea on exertion, inspiratory crackles, restrictive pulmonary function tests, and a chest radiograph demonstrating diffuse parenchymal lung disease. This constellation of findings suggests interstitial lung disease. Plain chest radiography findings may be highly variable in patients with diffuse parenchymal lung disease. Chest films may show increased interstitial reticular or nodular infiltrates in different patterns of distribution, but they may be normal in up to 10% of patients. Characteristics on HRCT of the chest have pulmonary pathology correlates that can help narrow the differential diagnosis. HRCT provides detailed resolution of the pulmonary parenchymal architecture. HRCT, clinical presentation (including time course of symptoms), physical findings, and, when necessary, lung biopsy and histopathology allow clinicians to reach selected diagnoses from an extensive list of diffuse parenchymal lung diseases.
In selected cases, bronchoscopic lung biopsy can provide enough tissue to demonstrate specific histopathologic features diagnostic of several specific disease processes, including carcinoma, sarcoidosis, and eosinophilic pneumonia. Bronchoalveolar lavage can provide additional diagnostic information, including culture, cytology, and cell differential. However, a lung biopsy and bronchoalveolar lavage would not be indicated until imaging studies confirmed the presence of diffuse parenchymal lung disease and have narrowed the differential diagnosis to entities that might be assessed with biopsy or bronchoalveolar lavage.
Cardiopulmonary exercise testing includes assessment of respiratory gas exchange during treadmill or bicycle exercise for a more detailed assessment of functional capacity and differentiation between potential causes of exercise limitation (cardiac, pulmonary, or deconditioning, versus volitional). It would not be the most appropriate next choice in a patient with increasing exercise limitation, pulmonary crackles, an abnormal chest radiograph, and restrictive findings on pulmonary function testing.
Methacholine challenge testing is used to evaluate bronchial hyperreactivity in patients with normal pulmonary function tests, and this patient's testing is abnormal, with a restrictive pattern, so such testing would not be indicated.

**Bibliography**

Meyer KC. Diagnosis and management of interstitial lung disease. Transl Respir Med. 2014;2:4. PMID: 25505696 doi:10.1186/2213-0802-2-4

This content was last updated in August 2018.