
### Correct Answer: D) Weight loss program 

**Educational Objective:** Treat disruptive snoring with weight loss.

#### **Key Point:** Obesity is the strongest risk factor for snoring and obstructive sleep apnea, and in patients with obesity who are otherwise healthy and without other sleep-related symptoms, weight loss is a reasonable first step that often relieves snoring and improves mild obstructive sleep apnea.

The most appropriate next step in management is a trial of weight loss. In this patient with obesity who is otherwise healthy and does not have other sleep-related symptoms, weight loss is a reasonable first step that often relieves snoring. Obesity is the strongest risk factor for snoring and obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Snoring occurs as the upper airway narrows during sleep, when inspired air collides with redundant soft tissue. Further airway collapse leads to OSA. Other treatments for snoring can include limiting time spent in the supine position (postural therapy) and curbing alcohol intake.
Home sleep testing should be reserved for patients with a high probability of moderate to severe apnea in whom positive airway pressure therapy is being considered. Although OSA hasn't been ruled out in this patient, his bed partner hasn't observed classic signs such as gasping or choking, nor does he exhibit strong indications for positive airway pressure therapy, such as excessive daytime sleepiness.
In-laboratory polysomnography allows more detailed analysis of the possible underlying sleep-related breathing disorder than out-of-center methods. Once the type of apnea is clarified during the diagnostic portion of the in-laboratory study, the technician may also then utilize the most appropriate mode of positive airway pressure therapy and assess the response to treatment. However, for this patient, testing of any kind should be preceded by a conservative approach that includes weight loss.
Upper airway surgical procedures, such as radiofrequency ablation of soft palate, are sometimes used to treat snoring and OSA but are variably effective and not considered first-line therapy.

**Bibliography**

Balachandran JS, Patel SR. In the clinic. Obstructive sleep apnea. Ann Intern Med. 2014;161:ITC1-15; quiz ITC16. PMID: 25364899

This content was last updated in August 2018.