
### Correct Answer: A) Indwelling pleural catheter placement 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a malignant pleural effusion.

#### **Key Point:** For patients with a malignant pleural effusion and rapid reaccumulation of fluid, indwelling pleural catheters provide significant symptom relief, and 50% to 70% of patients achieve spontaneous pleurodesis after 2 to 6 weeks.

This patient should be referred for an indwelling pleural catheter placement. Her diagnosis of a malignant pleural effusion signifies advanced disease and overall poor prognosis and the goal of management is the relief of symptoms. Several therapeutic options are available and should be made based on symptoms, prognosis, degree of lung reexpansion, and patient performance status. She has rapid reaccumulation of fluid and, therefore, should be offered more definitive management. Indwelling pleural catheters with intermittent drainage provide significant symptom relief, and 50% to 70% of patients achieve spontaneous pleurodesis after 2 to 6 weeks. In a recent randomized trial indwelling pleural catheters were found to be noninferior to talc pleurodesis, and patients who had an indwelling pleural catheter had a shorter hospital stay and less dyspnea at 6 months.
Pleurectomy is another management option but is rarely performed because it is invasive, associated with long recovery times, and appears to be no more effective than less invasive options.
Repeat therapeutic thoracentesis is appropriate for patients with poor prognosis (less than 3 months) and slow reaccumulation of fluid; given this patient's good performance status and rapid reaccumulation of pleural fluid, serial thoracentesis is not indicated.
Chemical pleurodesis refers to obliteration of the pleural space with a sclerosing agent (typically talc). Talc can be introduced through a thoracostomy tube (talc slurry) or during a thoracostomy or thoracotomy (talc poudrage). Talc pleurodesis is very effective, with a success rate of 60% to 90%, depending on the degree of lung reexpansion; however, it is associated with increased pain and longer initial hospital stay, so an indwelling pleural catheter would be preferable at this time.

**Bibliography**

Feller-Kopman D, Light R. Pleural disease. N Engl J Med. 2018;378:740-751. doi: 10.1056/NEJMra1403503. PMID: 29466146

This content was last updated in August 2018.