
### Correct Answer: A) Packed red blood cell transfusion 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with acute hemorrhagic shock using volume resuscitation with blood products.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with hemorrhagic shock, initial management includes volume resuscitation with blood products to stabilize the patient.

The most appropriate management for this patient is a transfusion of packed red blood cells. Clinicians should base decisions on blood transfusion on the full clinical picture, recognizing that overtransfusion may be as damaging as undertransfusion. A restrictive transfusion policy aiming for a hemoglobin level of 7 to 8 g/dL (70 to 80 g/L) is suggested in hemodynamically stable patients. More liberal blood transfusion thresholds lead to increased portal pressures and risk of further bleeding. This patient most likely is experiencing hemorrhagic shock from a recurrent variceal bleeding episode. Because the patient is hemodynamically unstable, initial guideline-based management includes volume resuscitation, and transfusion of blood products is the best method for achieving this. In patients who are bleeding and have a platelet count less than 50,000/μL (50 × 109/L) or who have an INR greater than 1.5, transfusion of platelets or fresh frozen plasma, respectively, is indicated.
Historically, uncontrolled variceal bleeding offered a compelling rationale for use of recombinant factor VII, but a 2014 meta-analysis of almost 500 patients from two randomized clinical trials evaluated the role of factor VII following variceal bleed. In both trials, there was no indication that factor VII improved outcomes. Therefore, it would not be appropriate for this patient.
Emergent upper endoscopy and consideration of placing a transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt are indicated in this patient, but are pursued after initial resuscitation efforts are completed. Because this patient is hemodynamically unstable and these procedures take time to coordinate, they would not supersede initial resuscitative efforts with blood products.

**Bibliography**

Tripathi D, Stanley AJ, Hayes PC, Patch D, Millson C, Mehrzad H, et al; Clinical Services and Standards Committee of the British Society of Gastroenterology. U.K. guidelines on the management of variceal haemorrhage in cirrhotic patients. Gut. 2015;64:1680-704. PMID: 25887380 doi:10.1136/gutjnl-2015-309262

This content was last updated in August 2018.