
### Correct Answer: D) Supportive care 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient intoxicated with isopropyl alcohol.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with isopropyl alcohol poisoning can be treated effectively using supportive care.

The most appropriate management is supportive care. Calculation of the plasma osmolal gap is helpful in assessing the presence of unmeasured solutes, such as ingestion of certain toxins (for example, methanol or ethylene glycol). The plasma osmolal gap is the difference between the measured and calculated plasma osmolality. Plasma osmolality can be calculated using the following formula:
Plasma Osmolality (mOsm/kg H2O) = 2 × Serum Sodium (mEq/L) + Plasma Glucose (mg/dL)/18 + Blood Urea Nitrogen (mg/dL)/2.8.
When the measured osmolality exceeds the calculated osmolality by greater than 10 mOsm/kg H2O, the osmolal gap is considered elevated. This patient does not have an increased anion-gap metabolic acidosis, thus eliminating methanol and ethylene glycol poisoning. An elevated osmolal gap of 27 and absent blood ethanol support the diagnosis of isopropyl alcohol ingestion (rubbing alcohol), which does not cause a metabolic acidosis. It is metabolized by alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) to acetone, which can cause a fruity odor on the patient's breath. There are no other toxic metabolites, and the main effect of isopropyl alcohol ingestion is central nervous system depression by both the isopropyl alcohol and the acetone.
There is no need to block the action of ADH with fomepizole. Administration of fomepizole would be advised for treatment of methanol or ethylene glycol ingestion, because these alcohols both have toxic metabolites that can lead to blindness, kidney failure, or death. Inhibiting ADH in patients who have ingested isopropyl alcohol only prolongs its elimination.
Hemodialysis is not normally needed to clear isopropyl alcohol from the blood, although it is a highly effective modality for eliminating all ingested alcohols. The risks of initiating hemodialysis in this patient who is inebriated but otherwise stable would not be justified.
Seizure prophylaxis with levetiracetam is not indicated for isopropyl alcohol ingestion, and this patient shows no clinical signs of withdrawal, a prelude to seizures. As long as he is closely monitored and treated appropriately with benzodiazepine medication for signs of withdrawal, antiepileptic medication should not be needed.

**Bibliography**

Beauchamp GA, Valento M. Toxic alcohol ingestion: prompt recognition and management in the emergency department. Emerg Med Pract. 2016;18:1-20. PMID: 27538060

This content was last updated in March 2021.