
### Correct Answer: B) Endobronchial ultrasound and mediastinal lymph node biopsy 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate potential lung cancer with the optimal diagnostic procedure.

#### **Key Point:** Endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration is the procedure of choice for diagnosing and staging mediastinal and hilar lymphadenopathy in patients with suspected thoracic malignancy.

The most appropriate diagnostic test for this patient with a lesion highly suspicious for lung cancer and PET-positive mediastinal lymphadenopathy is bronchoscopy with endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration. The evaluation of a patient with suspected lung cancer aims to confirm whether the patient indeed has lung cancer, to determine the pathology (non-small cell lung cancer versus small cell lung cancer), and to assess the stage at presentation. Most patients undergo chest CT scan as the first imaging modality, either after an abnormal chest radiograph or in evaluation of a symptom. The findings on the chest CT scan determine whether a PET/CT scan is necessary. A PET/CT scan can help in staging and therefore also help guide where to biopsy. For example, if a patient has a solitary pulmonary nodule, a PET/CT scan may help determine if any lymph node involvement is present that was not visible on the chest CT scan.
The next step is to obtain tissue diagnosis. The choice of initial diagnostic testing should be aimed first at identifying potential lymph node involvement or metastatic disease. Tissue diagnosis should then be targeted at the lesion that would result in the highest potential staging. In this patient, sampling the mediastinal lymph nodes is critical to both diagnose and stage the patient and will affect the clinical decision making for this patient. Endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration is a minimally invasive way and preferred to more invasive surgical techniques. Endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration can sample most mediastinal and some hilar lymph node stations, although some of the more posterior lymph nodes are not accessible with this technique.
CT-guided needle biopsy has a high accuracy for diagnosis of lung cancers, but has higher risks of procedural complications than endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (mainly pneumothorax), and the patient would require a second procedure to sample the mediastinum if the lung lesion is a non-small cell lung cancer.
Sputum cytology has a lower sensitivity than endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration for diagnosis of lung cancer, does not produce sufficient sample material for molecular studies, and will not provide needed staging information.
Thoracoscopic lung biopsy with lymph node dissection is less preferable than a minimally invasive approach, due to cost and risks of complications.

**Bibliography**

Silvestri GA, Gonzalez AV, Jantz MA, Margolis ML, Gould MK, Tanoue LT, et al. Methods for staging non-small cell lung cancer: diagnosis and management of lung cancer, 3rd ed: American College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. Chest. 2013;143:e211S-e250S. PMID: 23649440 doi:10.1378/chest.12-2355

This content was last updated in August 2018.