
### Correct Answer: A) Evaluate for Staphylococcus aureus nasal carriage 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent Staphylococcus aureus surgical site infection by evaluating for S. aureus nasal carriage.

#### **Key Point:** Patients undergoing cardiothoracic or orthopedic surgery should be screened for nasal carriage of Staphylococcus aureus and, if positive, should have preoperative decolonization.

The most appropriate measure to prevent surgical site infection is to evaluate for Staphylococcus aureus nasal carriage 2 weeks before surgery and decolonize if positive. S. aureus is the most common pathogen (23%) associated with surgical site infections (SSIs). SSIs after coronary artery bypass graft surgery can be serious and devastating, with mediastinitis related to S. aureus of particular concern. The 2016 World Health Organization guidelines recommend that patients known to be nasal carriers of S. aureus who are scheduled to undergo cardiothoracic or orthopedic surgery should have preoperative decolonization (mupirocin ointment for 5 days with or without chlorhexidine gluconate body wash) to decrease the risk of developing S. aureus–related SSI.
Data do not support extending antibiotic prophylaxis beyond 24 hours after cardiac surgery even while drains remain in place. For most other surgeries, no additional doses of antibiotic should be given postoperatively, even in cases of intraoperative spillage of gastrointestinal contents. Postoperative antibiotics are only indicated when treating an active infection.
Preoperative antibiotic prophylaxis reduces the risk of SSI by decreasing the concentration of pathogens at or around the incision site. The agent used and the timing of administration are key. For cardiac surgery, cefazolin is recommended unless a patient is known to have methicillin-resistant S. aureus colonization or has a severe (anaphylactic) β-lactam allergy, in which case vancomycin is used. For optimal benefit, the antibiotic should be administered 1 to 2 hours before incision. For procedures lasting more than several hours, the antibiotic should be redosed during surgery (for example, redose at 3-4 hours for cefazolin).
Preoperative shaving in the area of the planned incision increases the risk of SSI. Shaving causes microscopic abrasions of the skin, which promotes bacterial proliferation. Recommendations indicate only removing hair from the surgical site if it will interfere with the procedure, in which case clipping is preferred.

**Bibliography**

Schweizer ML, Chiang HY, Septimus E, Moody J, Braun B, Hafner J, et al. Association of a bundled intervention with surgical site infections among patients undergoing cardiac, hip, or knee surgery. JAMA. 2015;313:2162-71. PMID: 26034956 doi:10.1001/jama.2015.5387

This content was last updated in August 2018.