
### Correct Answer: B) Mycobacterium fortuitum 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Mycobacterium fortuitum infection.

#### **Key Point:** Rapidly growing, nontuberculous mycobacteria, such as Mycobacterium fortuitum, can produce chronic, nonhealing wounds that do not respond to conventional antimicrobial therapy.

This patient most likely has an infection with Mycobacterium fortuitum. M. fortuitum is one of the rapidly growing, nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) capable of producing chronic, nonhealing wounds anywhere the bacteria has been introduced, including skin, soft tissue, surgical sites, and occasionally on prosthetic devices. Although M. fortuitum is not part of the differential diagnosis of acute wound infections, NTM should always be considered in chronic wounds, especially when conventional antimicrobial therapy has been ineffective. To diagnose an NTM infection, a deep biopsy of chronic wound tissue should be performed. The biopsy specimen should be sent for histopathology to stain for bacteria, mycobacteria, and fungi, and a portion should be sent to the microbiology laboratory for similar stains and cultures.
Pulmonary disease is the most common manifestation of NTM infection, and Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) infection is the most common causative species. MAC is also responsible for most cases of NTM lymphadenitis. Disseminated MAC infection develops in patients with HIV who have CD4 cell counts less than 50/μL and are not receiving MAC prophylaxis. The clinical presentation often includes fever, night sweats, weight loss, and gastrointestinal symptoms. MAC would not be responsible for a solitary, nonhealing cutaneous ulcer.
Mycobacterium kansasii most commonly causes a lung infection that mimics tuberculosis, with cough, fever, weight loss, and cavitary lung disease. Risk factors for infection include COPD, cancer, HIV, alcohol abuse, and drug-associated immunosuppression. M. kansasii does not cause isolated chronic skin or soft tissue infections.
Leprosy is caused by the acid-fast bacillus Mycobacterium leprae, a slow-growing organism. Leprosy should be considered in the setting of chronic skin lesions that fail to respond to treatment of common skin conditions or when sensory loss is observed within lesions or in extremities. This patient's rapid development of a nonhealing ulcer after an initial injury 3 months ago is not compatible with infection caused by M. leprae.

**Bibliography**

Guglielmetti L, Mougari F, Lopes A, Raskine L, Cambau E. Human infections due to nontuberculous mycobacteria: the infectious diseases and clinical microbiology specialists' point of view. Future Microbiol. 2015;10:1467-83. PMID: 26344005 doi:10.2217/fmb.15.64

This content was last updated in October 2020.