
### Correct Answer: E) No further investigation or treatment 

**Educational Objective:** Manage asymptomatic bacteriuria.

#### **Key Point:** No treatment is indicated for asymptomatic bacteriuria in otherwise healthy, nonpregnant patients.

No treatment or further investigation is indicated in this asymptomatic older woman who has bacteriuria discovered on a routine dipstick urinalysis. Although commonly performed, analysis of the urine is not warranted, except when evaluating a patient who presents with clear signs or symptoms of a urinary tract infection (UTI), and may lead to unnecessary administration of antibiotics. Incontinence without urgency or dysuria is not unexpected in many older women. The prevalence of asymptomatic bacteriuria (ASB) is as low as 1% to 5% in healthy premenopausal women (2%-10% in pregnant women) and up to 100% in patients with long-term indwelling urinary catheters. However, most ASB occurs in older adult women and men, with a respective prevalence of 11% to 16% and 4% to 19% in the community, increasing to 25% to 50% and 15% to 40% in long-term care facilities. Except in specific patient groups, well-designed studies have proven that although persons with bacteriuria are at increased risk for symptomatic UTIs, ASB treatment does not decrease the frequency of symptomatic infections or improve other outcomes. ASB is associated with a higher prevalence of potentially dangerous antibiotic-resistant strains in women who progress to an active UTI. Except in pregnant women, who have a known increased prevalence of ASB, which has been demonstrated to lead to serious complications, routine screening for infection in women without symptoms is unwarranted. Screening and treatment are also indicated before invasive urologic procedures. The presence of pyuria accompanying ASB is not an indication for antimicrobial treatment.
This patient does not require treatment for her asymptomatic bacteruria; additionally, fluoroquinolone antibiotics are no longer recommended for the treatment of symptomatic lower UTIs because of the significant rise in Escherichia coli isolates resistant to this class of agents.
Cystoscopy is recommended in the evaluation of microscopic hematuria for all patients older than 35 years or those with risk factors for urologic malignancy. Cystoscopy would possibly be warranted in patients with recurring symptomatic UTIs but is not indicated in this patient.
Culture and sensitivity testing as well as microscopic urinalysis are not necessary in women presenting with classic lower UTI symptoms, including frequency, urgency, and dysuria, without manifestations of systemic or upper tract disease. Urinalysis and urine culture are not indicated as part of routine health surveillance in asymptomatic patients and should not be performed. They are not necessary in this patient with asymptomatic bacteruria.

**Bibliography**

Nicolle LE. Urinary tract infections in the older adult. Clin Geriatr Med. 2016;32:523-38. PMID: 27394021 doi:10.1016/j.cger.2016.03.002

This content was last updated in August 2018.