
### Correct Answer: C) Mediterranean spotted fever 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Mediterranean spotted fever.

#### **Key Point:** Mediterranean spotted fever characteristically presents with fever, myalgia, and headache followed shortly by the appearance of a maculopapular and oftentimes petechial rash; a distinct black eschar is also classically present at the site of inoculation.

This patient most likely has Mediterranean spotted fever caused by Rickettsia conorii. Most rickettsial infections are transmitted by arthropod vectors. Outdoor activities, especially during the spring and summer months, present the greatest opportunity for infection. Mediterranean spotted fever is one of the most severe forms of the spotted fever group of rickettsial diseases likely to be contracted during international travel. Signs and symptoms of illness usually begin following an incubation period of 2 to 14 days after a tick bite, which frequently goes unnoticed. The risk of infection is greatest in northern and southern Europe but also occurs in Africa, India, and the Middle East. Characteristically, fever, myalgia, and headache mark the onset of infection followed shortly by the appearance of a maculopapular and oftentimes petechial rash, generally beginning on the ankles and wrists and typically involving the palms and soles. A distinct eschar (shown) is classically present at the site of inoculation along with the development of localized regional lymphadenopathy. Disease is usually mild to moderate; however, vascular dissemination can lead to severe complications, of which neurologic manifestations are the most common. Laboratory findings are nonspecific, but diagnosis may be aided by polymerase chain reaction and serologic assays. A 7- to 10-day course of doxycycline is the treatment of choice.
Anaplasma phagocytophilum, the causative agent of human granulocytic anaplasmosis, can be found worldwide and is transmitted by various Ixodes tick species. However, rash is a very uncommon clinical manifestation (<10%).
Lyme disease in Europe mainly results from infection with Borrelia garinii or Borrelia afzelii, transmitted by Ixodes ricinus ticks. In nearly 75% of infected persons, it presents with an erythema migrans rash at the site of inoculation.
Rocky Mountain spotted fever, caused by R. rickettsii, is the most common rickettsial infection but is geographically restricted to certain areas of the United States, Central and South America, Mexico, and Canada. Eschar formation at the site of tick attachment is rare.

**Bibliography**

Parola P, Paddock CD, Socolovschi C, Labruna MB, Mediannikov O, Kernif T, et al. Update on tick-borne rickettsioses around the world: a geographic approach. Clin Microbiol Rev. 2013;26:657-702. PMID: 24092850 doi:10.1128/CMR.00032-13

This content was last updated in August 2018.