
### Correct Answer: A) Borrelia burgdorferi 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Lyme meningitis.

#### **Key Point:** For patients presenting with aseptic meningitis and cerebrospinal fluid findings typical for viral infection, the “rule of 7s” can classify a patient at low risk for having Lyme disease (headache duration &lt;7 days, &lt;70% mononuclear cells, and absence of a seventh facial nerve palsy).

Lyme disease, caused by infection with Borrelia burgdorferi, is the most common vector-borne infection in the United States. The first stage involves localized symptoms occurring 1 to 4 weeks after infection. This early stage is usually characterized by erythema migrans present in 60% to 80% of localized infections. Untreated patients may progress to early disseminated infection, typically presenting as a febrile illness associated with erythema migrans at multiple sites distant from the initial tick attachment. Focal cardiac or neurologic symptoms may also occur in early disseminated disease, typically 2 to 10 weeks after the development of the erythema migrans rash. The most common neurologic manifestation of early disseminated Lyme disease is facial nerve palsy, which may be unilateral or bilateral. Because the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) findings closely resemble those of other viral infections (enterovirus, herpes simplex virus, varicella-zoster virus, West Nile virus), the “rule of 7s” was derived and validated to accurately classify a patient at low risk for having Lyme disease (headache duration <7 days, <70% mononuclear cells, and absence of a seventh facial nerve palsy). Nantucket Island is a highly endemic area for Lyme disease; the patient's history of camping 2 months before meningitis onset is consistent with the diagnosis of Borrelia burgdorferi infection. The treatment is intravenous ceftriaxone.
Aseptic meningitis caused by herpes simplex virus type 2, West Nile virus, or enterovirus would include a normal neurologic examination. The presence of right-sided facial palsy in this patient makes these unlikely causes.
Varicella-zoster virus can also present with a facial palsy, but this condition usually occurs as part of the Ramsay-Hunt syndrome (with vesicular rash of the external ear). Ramsay-Hunt syndrome is usually seen in young immunosuppressed persons (those with AIDS) or in older adults.
The normal mental status excludes West Nile virus encephalitis as does the presence of facial palsy.

**Bibliography**

Shapiro ED. Clinical practice. Lyme disease. N Engl J Med. 2014;370:1724-31. PMID: 24785207 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp1314325

This content was last updated in August 2018.