
### Correct Answer: B) Epstein-Barr virus 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Epstein-Barr virus infection in a kidney transplant recipient.

#### **Key Point:** Posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder caused by Epstein-Barr virus can present several years after transplantation with fever, pancytopenia, generalized lymphadenopathy, and hepatosplenomegaly.

This patient's symptoms are most likely caused by infection with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). He most likely has posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD). His clinical presentation of fever, pancytopenia, generalized lymphadenopathy, and hepatosplenomegaly is consistent with this diagnosis, considering his kidney transplantation and immunosuppressive therapy. PTLD risk is higher in patients with a history of pre-existing EBV infection treated with lymphocyte-depleting agents and in those receiving sirolimus and tacrolimus compared with those receiving mycophenolate and cyclosporine. PTLD can range from a benign monoclonal gammopathy to a malignant lymphoma. PTLD should be considered in any patient presenting with fever and lymphadenopathy or an extranodal mass; treatment includes reduction of immunosuppression and rituximab or other chemotherapy.
Although numerous viral infections can complicate transplantation, cytomegalovirus is the most significant. The risk for reactivation is related to serologic status of the donor and recipient and is most likely in seronegative recipients from a seropositive donor; it is unlikely when donor and recipient are both negative. Like EBV, cytomegalovirus can reactivate and cause pancytopenia, hepatitis, pneumonitis, esophagitis, colitis, or adrenalitis in solid-organ transplant recipients. Cytomegalovirus reactivation is also associated with organ rejection, secondary infection, and an increased risk for graft loss and death. However, cytomegalovirus does not cause generalized lymphadenopathy or hepatosplenomegaly. Cytomegalovirus-seropositive transplant recipients or cytomegalovirus-negative recipients with positive donors should receive prophylactic valganciclovir or undergo routine monitoring for cytomegalovirus viremia.
Herpes simplex virus can also reactivate in the setting of immunosuppressive therapy, but it would be more likely to present with oral or genital ulcers.
Polyoma BK virus reactivation occurs in approximately 5% of kidney transplant recipients and can cause kidney allograft dysfunction or loss. It can present with a gradual, asymptomatic increase in the serum creatinine level with tubulointerstitial nephritis or, less commonly, with ureteral stenosis. Patients may have polyoma BK virus on polymerase chain reaction of the urine or serum or may have polyoma BK virus inclusion-bearing epithelial cells called “decoy cells.” The treatment is to reduce immunosuppression. This patient's stable serum creatinine level argues against this diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Petrara MR, Giunco S, Serraino D, Dolcetti R, De Rossi A. Post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorders: from epidemiology to pathogenesis-driven treatment. Cancer Lett. 2015;369:37-44. PMID: 26279520 doi:10.1016/j.canlet.2015.08.007

This content was last updated in August 2018.