
### Correct Answer: C) Oral doxycycline 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with a moderate-severity purulent skin infection who is allergic to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.

#### **Key Point:** Purulent skin infections with systemic signs of infection should be managed with incision and drainage followed by empiric oral therapy with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or doxycycline.

Empiric therapy with oral doxycycline is the most appropriate treatment for this patient after incision and drainage. Treatment of skin and soft tissue infections is guided by categorizing the infection as purulent or nonpurulent and by grading the severity of the infection as mild, moderate, or severe. The patient has a purulent skin infection (furuncle) of moderate severity (systemic signs of infection present, including fever and tachycardia). These infections are typically caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Recommended treatment is incision and drainage and outpatient treatment with an oral agent active against MRSA. Oral trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or doxycycline is recommended by the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) for moderate-severity purulent skin infections; however, the patient has a known allergy to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, eliminating it as an option. Culture of the purulent material will allow for identification of the microbial agent and a reassessment of pathogen-directed therapy.
Mild (no evidence of systemic signs of infection), nonpurulent skin infections are typically caused by streptococci, and empiric outpatient treatment with an oral agent such as clindamycin, penicillin, cephalexin, or dicloxacillin would be appropriate according to recommendations from the IDSA.
Incision and drainage alone with clinical follow-up is recommended by the IDSA for patients with mild purulent infections. However, in a 2017 randomized clinical trial of patients with skin abscess measuring 5 cm or less who underwent incision and drainage, higher cure rates were observed among those who received antibiotic therapy than those who received placebo. Because this patient has systemic signs of infection, he would be considered to have at least a moderate purulent skin and soft tissue infection and would, therefore, require antibiotics in addition to incision and drainage.

**Bibliography**

Stevens DL, Bisno AL, Chambers HF, Dellinger EP, Goldstein EJ, Gorbach SL, et al. Practice guidelines for the diagnosis and management of skin and soft tissue infections: 2014 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2014;59:147-59. PMID: 24947530 doi:10.1093/cid/ciu296

This content was last updated in August 2018.