
### Correct Answer: E) No further testing or treatment 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate the results of a tuberculin skin test.

#### **Key Point:** The criteria for a positive tuberculin skin test reaction have been established by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention based on the patient's risks for tuberculosis; in patients with no risk factors for tuberculosis, 15 mm or greater should be considered a positive result.

This patient has a negative tuberculin skin test (TST), so no treatment or further management is recommended. The criteria for a positive reaction have been established by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) based on the patient's risks for tuberculosis. A TST reaction of 5 mm or greater should be considered positive in persons at high risk, including patients with HIV, patients with recent known contact with a person with active tuberculosis, persons with chronic fibrotic changes on chest radiography consistent with old tuberculosis, patients who have undergone solid organ transplantation, and other persons who are immunosuppressed (patients taking prednisone >15 mg/d or a tumor necrosis factor-α antagonist). A TST reaction of 10 mm or greater should be considered positive in recent (<5 years) arrivals from high-prevalence countries, injection drug users, residents or employees of high-risk congregate settings (prisons and jails, nursing homes, and other long-term facilities for older adults), hospitals and other health care facilities (which would include this patient), homeless shelters, mycobacteriology laboratory personnel, persons with clinical conditions that put them at high risk for active disease, and children younger than 4 years or those exposed to adults in high-risk categories. In patients with no risk factors for tuberculosis, 15 mm or greater should be considered a positive result.
Because latent and active tuberculosis were ruled out in this patient, a chest radiograph is unnecessary.
Sputum induction for culture is not indicated in the absence of clinical signs or symptoms of active infection and without testing results indicating tuberculosis infection.
Because the patient did not have evidence of latent tuberculosis, isoniazid treatment is not indicated. Isoniazid should not be initiated empirically without evidence of infection.
Because the TST is considered negative, tuberculosis has been ruled out in this patient, and she does not need to be removed from her work area.

**Bibliography**

Lewinsohn DM, Leonard MK, LoBue PA, Cohn DL, Daley CL, Desmond E, et al. Official American Thoracic Society/Infectious Diseases Society of America/Centers for Disease Control and Prevention clinical practice guidelines: diagnosis of tuberculosis in adults and children. Clin Infect Dis. 2017;64:111-115. PMID: 28052967 doi:10.1093/cid/ciw778

This content was last updated in March 2020.