
### Correct Answer: A) Initiate isoniazid plus pyridoxine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat latent tuberculosis infection in a patient who is HIV positive.

#### **Key Point:** A 5-mm induration on tuberculin skin testing is considered positive in persons who are immunocompromised, including those with HIV; if no other signs of tuberculosis infection are present, treatment for latent tuberculosis infection should be initiated with isoniazid.

The most appropriate management for this patient is daily isoniazid plus pyridoxine. He has HIV, and a tuberculin skin test (TST) produces a 5-mm induration, which is considered positive in patients who are immunocompromised. Because the chest radiograph was negative, he should be treated as having latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) with 9 months of isoniazid therapy. The 2020 CDC guideline for the treatment of latent tuberculosis offers 6 and 9 months of isoniazid for patients with and without HIV infection. The CDC recognizes 3 months of isoniazid plus rifapentine given once weekly or 3 months of isoniazid plus rifampin given daily as preferred regimens because of drug tolerability, efficacy, and high completion rates. Isoniazid given daily for 6 or 9 months is now considered an alternative therapy for patients unable to take a preferred regimen. Pyridoxine is added to isoniazid treatment in patients at risk for peripheral neuropathy (such as patients with HIV, diabetes, uremia, alcoholism, malnutrition, and pregnancy). It cannot be determined if the patient's tuberculosis infection is newly acquired or long standing because the previous negative TST was performed when his CD4 cell count was extremely low.
Because this patient has no evidence of active infection, four-drug antituberculous therapy is not necessary.
Routine use of a TST and interferon-γ release assay (IGRA) is not recommended. In certain circumstances, however, using a second test when the result of the initial test is negative might be helpful when the risk of infection or progression is increased or risk for poor outcome exists, such as in children younger than 5 years who have been exposed to a patient with active tuberculosis or in patients with HIV infection. Use of a second test for diagnosing infection when the result of the first test is negative can also be considered when the suspicion of tuberculosis is strong based on clinical presentation or radiographic imaging. Conversely, using both tests when the result of the initial test is positive might be helpful when a suspected false-positive result is obtained in a person at low risk for infection and progression to active disease. This patient is at high risk for tuberculosis and has a positive TST; therefore, additional testing with IGRA is not necessary.
Repeating the TST would not provide additional information. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends initiating antituberculous prophylaxis in patients who are HIV positive who have a TST induration of 5 mm or greater.

**Bibliography**

Sterling TR, Njie G, Zenner D, et al. Guidelines for the Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection: Recommendations from the National Tuberculosis Controllers Association and CDC, 2020. MMWR Recomm Rep. 2020;69(1):1–11. Published 2020 Feb 14. PMID: 32053584 doi:10.15585/mmwr.rr6901a1

This content was last updated in October 2020.