
### Correct Answer: E) Urine culture plus ciprofloxacin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat recurrent cystitis in women.

#### **Key Point:** Ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin are the preferred antimicrobial agents for the treatment of recurrent cystis when trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole local resistance rates are high or the patient has been treated with an antibiotic for a urinary tract infection within the previous 3 months.

The most appropriate management of this patient is urine culture plus ciprofloxacin. This young woman has a classic presentation and typical dipstick urinalysis findings of a lower urinary tract infection (UTI). Urine cultures are not generally necessary to confirm the diagnosis; however, culture and susceptibility testing are indicated when infection is recurrent. Recurrent UTI is defined as three episodes of UTI in the preceding 12 months or two episodes in the preceding 6 months. Recurrent UTI is common in women. A recurrent UTI may be a relapse or reinfection. Relapse is defined as an infection caused by the same strain (by repeat culture) as the initial UTI and occurs within 2 weeks of completing initial therapy. Reinfection is diagnosed if the UTI is caused by a different strain than that causing the initial infection or if a sterile urine culture was documented between episodes. Most recurrences are reinfections. While awaiting results, she should begin empiric treatment with ciprofloxacin twice daily for 7 days. Although fluoroquinolone antibiotics are no longer recommended as first-line agents for the treatment of cystitis because of increasing concerns for potential adverse effects and uropathogen antimicrobial resistance development, ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin are the preferred antimicrobial agents when trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole local resistance rates are high (>20%) or the patient has been treated with an antibiotic for a UTI within the previous 3 months. Having recently received antibiotics defines this patient's UTI as complicated, warranting 7 to 10 days of treatment with a fluoroquinolone antibiotic.
Nitrofurantoin, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, fosfomycin, and oral β-lactams are not recommended as first-line empiric oral therapy in complicated cystitis because of concerns regarding resistance to these agents. In the case of culture-proven sensitivity, these agents can be used in the treatment of complicated UTI.
Ampicillin and amoxicillin are no longer acceptable UTI treatment options because more than one third of community-acquired Escherichia coli harbor resistance to this agent.

**Bibliography**

Gupta K, Hooton TM, Naber KG, Wullt B, Colgan R, Miller LG, et al; Infectious Diseases Society of America. International clinical practice guidelines for the treatment of acute uncomplicated cystitis and pyelonephritis in women: A 2010 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America and the European Society for Microbiology and Infectious Diseases. Clin Infect Dis. 2011;52:e103-20. PMID: 21292654 doi:10.1093/cid/ciq257

This content was last updated in August 2018.