
### Correct Answer: A) Cystoscopy and biopsy 

**Educational Objective:** Manage asymptomatic bacteriuria in a patient undergoing an invasive urologic procedure.

#### **Key Point:** Screening for and possibly treating asymptomatic bacteriuria is supported by only two indications: pregnancy and medical clearance before an invasive urologic procedure.

The indication for antimicrobial therapy in this patient is an invasive urologic procedure. Because urine is a sterile body fluid, the presence of significant bacteriuria is considered to be an infection. In men, either 105 cfu/mL of bacteria from voided urine or at least 102 cfu/mL of a single bacterial species from a clean intermittent catheterized sample is required to distinguish true bacteriuria from contamination. Asymptomatic bacteriuria (ASB) is diagnosed when no signs or symptoms of active infection referable to the urinary tract are present. Depending on variables such as age and genitourinary abnormalities, older adult men have an ASB prevalence of approximately 5% to 20% in the community, rising to 15% to 40% in long-term care facilities. It is important to recognize that screening for and possibly treating asymptomatic bacteriuria is supported by only two indications: pregnancy and risk mitigation before an invasive urologic procedure. The use of prophylactic antibiotics before minor noninvasive urologic interventions without mucosal bleeding does not provide any benefit and is not recommended.
Likewise, screening for and treating ASB in patients about to undergo orthopedic surgery, including total joint arthroplasty, is without proven merit because it is not a cause of postoperative surgical site infection.
Data are insufficient to advocate the routine treatment of ASB in kidney transplant recipients or patients with diabetes.

**Bibliography**

Nicolle LE. Asymptomatic bacteriuria. Curr Opin Infect Dis. 2014;27:90-6. PMID: 24275697 doi:10.1097/QCO.0000000000000019

This content was last updated in August 2018.