
### Correct Answer: B) Begin tenofovir, emtricitabine, and dolutegravir 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent HIV infection after exposure.

#### **Key Point:** Preferred HIV postexposure prophylaxis regimens include tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, emtricitabine, and either dolutegravir or raltegravir and are appropriate whether the exposure was occupational or nonoccupational.

This patient has sustained a possible exposure to HIV and should begin postexposure prophylaxis as soon as possible with a three-drug regimen of tenofovir, emtricitabine, and dolutegravir. Significant risk factors for the exposure include that it was a hollow-bore needle with visible blood. If the source patient was known to have an undetectable viral load in blood, the risk would be reduced but not eliminated; however, the source patient's viral load is unknown at this time. Drug selection may be modified depending on the source patient's history of viral resistance, but the preferred empiric postexposure prophylaxis regimens include tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, emtricitabine, and either dolutegravir or raltegravir, and should be given for 4 weeks. The same recommendations are appropriate whether the exposure was occupational or nonoccupational. The exposed patient should be tested for HIV immediately, 4 to 6 weeks later, and 3 months after the exposure. Exposed persons should also be counseled on transmission, symptoms of acute infection, and toxicity of the medications being prescribed.
A two-drug regimen for postexposure prophylaxis (compared with pre-exposure prophylaxis) is no longer recommended.
Protease inhibitors such as darunavir, whether boosted or not, are not recommended for prophylaxis because of their higher rates of adverse effects.
Because postexposure prophylaxis must begin promptly to be most effective, it would not be appropriate to wait for results of the source patient's viral load before determining therapy. The source patient should also be tested for other blood-borne pathogens, such as hepatitis B and C.

**Bibliography**

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Updated guidelines for antiretroviral postexposure prophylaxis after sexual, injection drug use, or other nonoccupational exposure to HIV—United States, 2016. Available at https://stacks.cdc.gov/view/cdc/38856. Accessed November 2, 2017.

This content was last updated in August 2018.