
### Correct Answer: A) Completion of oral ciprofloxacin course 

**Educational Objective:** Manage acute pyelonephritis with bacteremia in a woman.

#### **Key Point:** Acute, uncomplicated pyelonephritis can usually be managed with oral outpatient antimicrobial therapy, with the fluoroquinolones ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin being the preferred, first-line agents.

This patient should complete her prescribed 7-day course of oral ciprofloxacin. She has acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis, which can usually be managed with outpatient oral antimicrobial therapy. Ciprofloxacin for 1 week or levofloxacin for 5 days are the recommended first-line treatment regimens. An initial dose of a long-acting parenteral antibiotic (such as ceftriaxone or aminoglycoside) is suggested when local fluoroquinolone resistance (>10%) is a concern. When a fluoroquinolone antibiotic cannot be used or the bacterial isolate proves resistant, an alternative second-line oral antibiotic should be substituted. Available options include trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or the less well-studied oral β-lactam agents.
With the exception of pregnancy, follow-up microbiologic cultures and urinalysis are not required or indicated after resolution of infection.
Extending the duration of ciprofloxacin therapy beyond 7 days would be warranted for complicated pyelonephritis but should not be influenced by the discovery of the single bloodstream isolate in this otherwise healthy woman.
Transient bacteremia does not necessitate hospitalization for parenteral antimicrobial therapy except when the pathogen is found to be multidrug resistant or when complicating features are present (severe illness, obstruction, pregnancy).
In adult women with acute kidney infections, urinary tract imaging by ultrasonography or CT is not routinely performed. However, urologic imaging may be useful and is recommended in evaluating patients who do not clinically improve after 72 hours of adequate antimicrobial therapy or when complications such as obstruction or perinephric and renal abscesses are suspected. Such studies should also be considered when evaluating women who experience an excessive number of recurrent urinary tract infections.

**Bibliography**

Kumar S, Dave A, Wolf B, Lerma EV. Urinary tract infections. Dis Mon. 2015;61:45-59. PMID: 25732782 doi:10.1016/j.disamonth.2014.12.002

This content was last updated in August 2018.