
### Correct Answer: C) Zika virus IgM antibody test 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with recent Zika virus exposure.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with potential Zika virus exposure more than 2 weeks previously, testing for Zika virus IgM antibodies is necessary.

Testing for Zika virus IgM antibodies is the most appropriate management for this pregnant patient, who has had possible exposure to Zika virus through unprotected sexual activity. Asymptomatic pregnant women not living in an area with active Zika virus transmission who may have been exposed more than 2 weeks previously require testing for Zika virus IgM antibodies; a positive result would indicate probable recent infection. Men who have had symptomatic or asymptomatic infection have been proven to have detectable Zika virus RNA in their semen for up to several weeks, with subsequent sexual transmission to their female partner. Under such circumstances, condoms should be used with each sexual encounter for at least 3 months. Her husband's recent viral-like illness occurring in an endemic geographic area, although unconfirmed, must be presumed to have been Zika virus infection. Evaluating her for evidence of asymptomatic infection is of paramount importance to provide counseling and investigate the possible risk of congenital Zika syndrome, of which microcephaly is the most frequent manifestation.
Patients with dengue may be asymptomatic or present with acute febrile illness associated with frontal headache, retro-orbital pain, myalgia, and arthralgia, with or without purpura, melena, or conjunctival injection. Gastrointestinal or respiratory symptoms may predominate. Severe lumbosacral pain is characteristic (“breakbone fever”). As the fever abates, a macular or scarlatiniform rash, which spares the palms and soles and evolves into areas of petechiae on extensor surfaces, may develop. The husband's symptoms are not compatible with dengue. Even if he did have dengue, he cannot transmit the infection to his wife, and testing her for dengue infection is not indicated.
Pregnant women with proven or presumptive recent Zika virus infection require serial ultrasonography every 3 to 4 weeks to assess fetal anatomy and growth. Frequent ultrasonographic monitoring may be appropriate if recent Zika infection is confirmed.
RNA nucleic acid amplification testing for the presence of Zika virus in serum and urine has a greatly diminished sensitivity if performed more than 2 weeks after symptomatic or asymptomatic exposure. In this case, Zika virus IgM antibody testing is preferred.

**Bibliography**

Petersen LR, Jamieson DJ, Powers AM, Honein MA. Zika virus. N Engl J Med. 2016;374:1552-63. PMID: 27028561 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1602113

This content was last updated in August 2018.