
### Correct Answer: D) Varicella-zoster virus 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Ramsay Hunt syndrome caused by varicella-zoster virus infection.

#### **Key Point:** Varicella-zoster virus is a cause of Ramsay Hunt syndrome, which usually presents with ear pain, a vesicular rash in the external ear (although the rash may be absent), and ipsilateral peripheral facial palsy.

Varicella-zoster virus (VZV) is the most likely cause of this patient's findings. VZV reactivation presents with pain or paresthesias in a specific dermatome; the characteristic rash develops several days later. In order of frequency, the thoracic, trigeminal, lumbar, and cervical cutaneous dermatomes are most often involved. More than 50% of cases occur in persons older than 60 years; immunocompromised patients are also at risk. Involvement of the geniculate ganglion may cause herpes zoster oticus, also known as the Ramsay Hunt syndrome, characterized by pain and vesicles in the external ear canal, ipsilateral peripheral facial palsy, and altered or absent taste. Patients may also experience hearing loss, tinnitus, and altered lacrimation. Most experts consider Ramsay Hunt syndrome to be a polycranial neuropathy, with frequent involvement of cranial nerves V, IX, and X. A vesicular rash may be absent in patients with VZV (zoster sine herpete) and should not deter physicians from ordering polymerase chain reaction testing for VZV. Acyclovir is typically prescribed for this syndrome. The live attenuated zoster vaccine has 64% efficacy that decreases to 36% after 6 years. A novel recombinant zoster vaccine, approved in 2017, has 97% efficacy and should be given to this patient.
The most common neurologic manifestation of early disseminated Lyme disease is facial nerve palsy, which may be unilateral or bilateral. Treatment of early localized disease prevents progression of infection. Untreated patients may progress to early disseminated infection. This stage typically presents as a febrile illness associated with erythema migrans at multiple sites distant from the initial tick attachment. Constitutional symptoms are common and include fever, myalgia, arthralgia, and headache. Neurologic Lyme disease without a history of tick bite, erythema migrans rash, or systemic symptoms is highly unlikely.
Bell palsy is defined as an isolated paralysis of the facial nerve that leads to complete unilateral facial paralysis. Herpes simplex virus (HSV) type 1 reactivation is the likely cause of Bell palsy in most cases. However, most cases of Bell palsy are diagnosed as “idiopathic” because it is difficult in clinical practice to prove that reactivation of HSV-1 is the cause of this peripheral neuropathy.
HSV type 2 is more commonly associated with genital ulcers, recurrent aseptic meningitis, or myelitis than with Bell palsy. Neither Lyme disease nor HSV reactivation can explain the burning and stinging ear pain, tinnitus, hearing loss, and facial palsy experienced by this patient as well as VZV reactivation can.

**Bibliography**

Cohen JI. Clinical practice: Herpes zoster. N Engl J Med. 2013;369:255-63. PMID: 23863052 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp1302674

This content was last updated in August 2018.