
### Correct Answer: B) Coxiella burnetii 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Q fever pneumonia.

#### **Key Point:** Many zoonotic organisms have the potential to cause pulmonary infection, but they can be differentiated based on the severity of illness and animal reservoir; relatively mild infection coupled with exposure to livestock indicates likely Coxiella burnetii infection.

The most likely cause of this patient's illness is Coxiella burnetii. He presents with community-acquired pneumonia not requiring hospitalization, which is most frequently caused by atypical bacteria, Streptococcus pneumoniae, or a viral pathogen. His occupation puts him at risk for zoonotic causes of pneumonia as well. Many zoonotic organisms can potentially cause pulmonary infection, but they can usually be differentiated based on illness severity and animal reservoir. In this patient, the relatively mild infection coupled with exposure to livestock makes C. burnetii the most likely culprit. C. burnetii, which causes Q fever pneumonia, is most frequently associated with exposure to farm animals, parturient animals in particular. High rates of seropositivity have been reported in farmers, veterinarians, and abattoir workers. Infection can occur without direct animal exposure; increased rates of Q fever pneumonia have been found among persons residing in proximity to livestock farms. Infection occurs after inhalation of aerosolized bodily fluids from infected animals. Acute pulmonary infection ranges from subclinical to severe, but it is rarely fatal. Treatment with doxycycline is indicated to decrease symptom duration and to prevent progression to chronic Q fever.
Bacillus anthracis is the causative agent of anthrax. Cutaneous anthrax is the most common naturally occurring form of the disease. In the United States, inhalation anthrax is almost exclusively of concern as an agent of bioterrorism. In endemic areas, pulmonary infection may occur after inhalation of spores from the fur or hide of infected livestock, particularly goats and cattle. Inhalation anthrax is a fulminant, often fatal infection.
Chlamydia psittaci is the causative agent of psittacosis, which typically presents as pneumonia associated with abrupt onset of fever, severe headache, and dry cough. This organism is associated with inhalation of dried bird droppings, so bird owners or breeders and poultry farmers are at particularly high risk for this infection.
Pneumonic tularemia occurs either after direct inhalation or through secondary spread of Francisella tularensis into the lungs. Pneumonic tularemia is characterized by a nonproductive cough, dyspnea, and substernal or pleuritic chest pain. Chest radiographs show infiltrates, hilar lymphadenopathy, and pleural effusion. In the United States, most infections are transmitted through animal exposure. Hunters are at particularly high risk for primary tularemia pneumonia through skinning and dressing of infected rabbits or other wild game.
Yersinia pestis infection of the lung causes pneumonic plague. Rodents serve as the primary reservoir for plague. Pulmonary infection occurs through droplet transmission from an infected host or secondary spread from an extrapulmonary source. Patients present with sudden high fever, pleuritic chest pain, a productive cough, and hemoptysis. Pneumonic plague is almost uniformly fatal unless recognized and treated promptly.

**Bibliography**

Freidl GS, Spruijt IT, Borlée F, Smit LA, van Gageldonk-Lafeber AB, Heederik DJ, et al. Livestock-associated risk factors for pneumonia in an area of intensive animal farming in the Netherlands. PLoS One. 2017;12:e0174796. PMID: 28362816 doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0174796

This content was last updated in August 2018.