
### Correct Answer: D) Remove PICC line and repeat blood cultures 

**Educational Objective:** Treat coagulase-negative Staphylococcus central line–associated bloodstream infection.

#### **Key Point:** Coagulase-negative Staphylococcus is less virulent than S. aureus and is less likely to cause metastatic infection or endocarditis in patients without prosthetic devices or endovascular hardware in place (such as prosthetic heart valves) and may be treated with simple removal of the intravenous catheter.

The most appropriate management is to remove the peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC) and repeat blood cultures. Central line–associated bloodstream infections (CLABSIs) can occur with any type of catheter, including short-term peripheral intravenous catheters and PICCs. They are most commonly caused by coagulase-negative Staphylococcus followed by S. aureus. Coagulase-negative Staphylococcus is less virulent than S. aureus and is less likely to cause metastatic infection or endocarditis in patients without prosthetic devices or endovascular hardware (such as prosthetic heart valves) in place. Coagulase-negative Staphylococcus CLABSIs often resolve with removal of the catheter. Blood cultures should be repeated after catheter removal to document clearance of the organism. Alternatively, patients with coagulase-negative Staphylococcus CLABSIs can be treated with antibiotics for 5 to 7 days if the catheter is removed and for 10 to 14 days in combination with antibiotic lock therapy if the catheter is not removed.
Most uncomplicated CLABSIs are treated for 7 to 14 days; S. aureus CLABSIs may require treatment for 4 to 6 weeks after catheter removal. Shorter therapy durations (14 days) may be considered in select patients with S. aureus CLABSI whose catheters have been removed and who do not have diabetes mellitus, are not immunosuppressed, have no implanted prosthetic devices, have no evidence of endocarditis by echocardiography (preferably transesophageal), and have no evidence of infected thrombophlebitis; whose fever and bacteremia resolve within 72 hours of starting appropriate therapy; and whose physical examination and diagnostic tests do not suggest the presence of metastatic infection.
In patients with persistent bacteremia or endovascular hardware, transesophageal echocardiography may be pursued to evaluate for endocarditis. In patients with endovascular hardware, longer durations of antibiotics are generally required. Catheters should always be removed when endocarditis, metastatic infection, hemodynamic instability, suppurative thrombophlebitis, or persistent bacteremia is evident.

**Bibliography**

Mermel LA, Allon M, Bouza E, Craven DE, Flynn P, O’Grady NP, et al. Clinical practice guidelines for the diagnosis and management of intravascular catheter-related infection: 2009 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2009;49:1-45. PMID: 19489710 doi:10.1086/599376

This content was last updated in August 2018.