
### Correct Answer: D) Remove catheter and observe for spontaneous voiding 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent catheter-associated urinary tract infection by removing the catheter.

#### **Key Point:** Early removal of urinary catheters should be considered when possible, and patients should be monitored for their ability to void spontaneously after catheter removal.

The proper management of the patient's urinary catheter is to remove it and observe the patient for spontaneous voiding. Catheters should be used for appropriate indications only, which include urinary retention and bladder outlet obstruction, measurement of urinary output in critically ill patients, perioperative use for selected surgical procedures, assistance with healing of perineal or sacral wounds in patients with incontinence, use in patients requiring prolonged immobilization, and contribution to comfort at the end of life. An indwelling urinary catheter is sometimes inserted in the emergency department during trauma evaluation; however, the need for continuing the catheter should be assessed when the initial evaluation has been completed. If this patient required prolonged immobilization (for example, multiple traumatic injuries such as pelvic fractures), continuing the indwelling urinary catheter may be appropriate. Patients should be monitored closely for their ability to void spontaneously when a catheter is removed. Bladder ultrasonography can be used to determine residual postvoid volume; if more than 200 mL remain, consider intermittent catheterization for a short amount of time rather than placing a new indwelling urinary catheter. Early removal of urinary catheters should be considered when possible and can be encouraged by reminder systems. Additionally, nurse-initiated removal protocols have been shown to be effective in limiting duration of catheterization. Catheter-associated urinary tract infection (CAUTI) prevention strategies are summarized by the acronym ABCDE: Adhere to general infection control principles, perform Bladder ultrasonography to potentially avoid catheterization, use Condom catheters or intermittent catheterization when appropriate, Do not use an indwelling catheter if criteria for use are not met, and remove catheters Early when they are no longer indicated using computerized reminders or nurse-driven removal protocols.
Antimicrobial-impregnated or antiseptic-coated catheters have not been shown to decrease CAUTIs with short-term (<14 days) catheterization. Information is scarce on their benefits with long-term urinary catheters. Early removal of the catheter is a better care strategy.
Administering antibiotics with the goal of preventing infection is not effective and promotes antibiotic-resistant bacteria and fungal CAUTIs and is not indicated in this case.

**Bibliography**

Chenoweth CE, Saint S. Urinary tract infections. Infect Dis Clin North Am. 2016;30:869-885. PMID: 27816141 doi:10.1016/j.idc.2016.07.007

This content was last updated in August 2018.