
### Correct Answer: A) Ampicillin-sulbactam plus vancomycin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat an infected cat bite in a patient with risk factors for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.

#### **Key Point:** Cat bite–associated wound infections comprise a mix of anaerobic and aerobic organisms, including Pasteurella species, which require treatment with antibiotic agents such as piperacillin-tazobactam, ampicillin-sulbactam, imipenem, and meropenem; coverage for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus must be included in select patients who have risk factors for this infection.

This patient should receive antibiotic treatment with ampicillin-sulbactam plus vancomycin in addition to undergoing surgical consultation. She has a cat bite–associated wound infection with accompanying low blood pressure and tachypnea and requires hospitalization. Cat bites are more likely than dog bites to cause infection because of cats' sharp, narrow teeth; infections are caused by organisms from the animal's mouth flora and the host's skin flora. This flora comprises a mix of anaerobic and aerobic organisms, including streptococci, staphylococci, and Bacteroides, Fusobacterium, Porphyromonas, and Pasteurella species. Pasteurella is a facultative anaerobic gram-negative rod that is the most common bacteria in a cat's mouth. Intravenous piperacillin-tazobactam, ampicillin-sulbactam, imipenem, or meropenem would address these organisms but not potential methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). If pus is present, the patient has MRSA risk factors such as a previous MRSA infection or colonization within the last year, or local MRSA prevalence is high, then coverage should also include agents that target MRSA, such as vancomycin or daptomycin. Consequently, the combination of ampicillin-sulbactam and vancomycin would be the best choice for empiric antibiotic coverage because this regimen is effective against serious infections caused by MRSA and the microbiota of a cat's mouth.
Ceftriaxone and metronidazole would be effective against many of the organisms encountered in a cat bite–associated skin infection, but it would not cover the possibility of MRSA infection in this patient.
Ciprofloxacin and aztreonam also lack coverage for MRSA and some anaerobes likely to be associated with a bite wound.
Imipenem is a broad-spectrum antibiotic effective against many of the organisms associated with cat bite wounds, but it does not provide MRSA coverage.
Neither vancomycin nor clindamycin provides adequate coverage against Pasteurella species, so this regimen would not be effective for a cat bite–associated infection.

**Bibliography**

Bystritsky R, Chambers H. Cellulitis and soft tissue infections. Ann Intern Med. 2018;168:ITC17-ITC32. PMID: 29404597

This content was last updated in August 2018.