
### Correct Answer: B) Human monocytic ehrlichiosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose human monocytic ehrlichiosis.

#### **Key Point:** Human monocytic ehrlichiosis infection is characterized by a nonfocal febrile illness associated with leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, elevated hepatic enzyme levels, and a rapid response to tetracycline.

This patient most likely has human monocytic ehrlichiosis (HME), a tick-borne illness primarily caused by Ehrlichia chaffeensis. His symptoms include a nonfocal febrile illness associated with leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and elevated hepatic enzyme levels, all of which are characteristic of HME. His participation in outdoor activities in wooded areas places him at risk for exposure to ticks. HME is endemic in the mid-Atlantic, southern, and southeastern United States; his clinical presentation is highly suggestive of this illness. The prompt response to doxycycline is classic for a tick-borne rickettsial illness, such as HME; a lack of response within 48 hours of therapy would suggest an alternative diagnosis or a coinfection. The negative serologic results for E. chaffeensis do not disprove the diagnosis and should not prompt early discontinuation of doxycycline. The sensitivity of antibody testing is low in the first week of illness; seroconversion typically occurs within 2 to 4 weeks of symptom onset, and acute and convalescent titers are useful for retrospective confirmation of infection. During the acute illness, buffy-coat staining (to reveal the presence of morulae, which are basophilic inclusion bodies in the cytoplasm of monocytes representing clusters of bacteria [shown]) or polymerase chain reaction of whole blood specimens may allow an early diagnosis.
Although many infections present identically to HME, the salient feature in this patient was the rapid response to doxycycline therapy, which essentially excludes a viral process. Heartland virus, a newly described Bunyavirus transmitted by the same vector as E. chaffeensis, is clinically indistinguishable from HME and should be suspected when no improvement is seen within 48 hours of starting doxycycline therapy.
Infectious mononucleosis can present with fever, cytopenia, and elevated aminotransferase levels. However, other components of the infectious mononucleosis triad (fever, pharyngitis, and cervical lymphadenopathy) were absent in this patient.
The rapid response to doxycycline treatment is consistent with Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) infection. However, the pronounced leukopenia and absence of a rash more than 1 week into the illness argue against this diagnosis.

**Bibliography**

Biggs HM, Behravesh CB, Bradley KK, Dahlgren FS, Drexler NA, Dumler JS, et al. Diagnosis and management of tickborne rickettsial diseases: Rocky Mountain spotted fever and other spotted fever group rickettsioses, ehrlichioses, and anaplasmosis — United States. MMWR Recomm Rep. 2016;65:1-44. PMID: 27172113 doi:10.15585/mmwr.rr6502a1

This content was last updated in August 2018.