
### Correct Answer: C) Remove the external ventricular drain 

**Educational Objective:** Treat health care–associated ventriculitis and meningitis.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with health care–associated ventriculitis or meningitis, device removal, if present, should accompany empiric antimicrobial therapy.

The most appropriate management in this patient is removal of his ventricular drain. After drain removal, clinical monitoring for intracranial hypertension will be important. Health care–associated ventriculitis or meningitis (HCAVM) or nosocomial meningitis may present a diagnostic and treatment challenge to clinicians. It typically occurs after head trauma or a neurosurgical procedure (craniotomy, lumbar puncture) or secondary to device infection (for example, cerebrospinal fluid [CSF] shunts or drains, intrathecal pumps, deep brain stimulator). Staphylococcus species and enteric gram-negative bacteria are the most common causes, but up to 50% of patients can have negative cultures because more than 50% receive antibiotic therapy before CSF studies are performed, as occurred in this patient. Worsening mental status, new fever, or stiff neck in a patient who recently underwent surgery should raise the possibility of HCAVM. An elevated CSF lactate level greater than 4 mg/dL, an elevated CSF procalcitonin level, or a combination of both, may be useful in the diagnosis of health care–associated bacterial ventriculitis and meningitis in culture-negative cases. Empiric therapy should include vancomycin and a β-lactam with antipseudomonal activity (such as cefepime or meropenem) and device removal, if present.
For patients with health care–associated ventriculitis and meningitis caused by staphylococci in whom β-lactam agents or vancomycin cannot be used, treatment with linezolid, daptomycin, or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is recommended with selection based on in vitro susceptibility testing. However, the priority in this patient is removing the ventricular drain, not changing the antibiotic regimen.
Intraventricular or intrathecal antimicrobial therapy should be considered for patients with health care–associated ventriculitis and meningitis in whom the infection responds poorly to systemic antimicrobial therapy alone. This strategy is not appropriate in a patient with a potentially infected ventricular drain.

**Bibliography**

Tunkel AR, Hasbun R, Bhimraj A, Byers K, Kaplan SL, Michael Scheld W, et al. 2017 Infectious Diseases Society of America's clinical practice guidelines for healthcare-associated ventriculitis and meningitis. Clin Infect Dis. 2017. PMID: 28203777 doi:10.1093/cid/ciw861

This content was last updated in August 2018.