
### Correct Answer: D) Liposomal amphotericin B 

**Educational Objective:** Treat disseminated histoplasmosis.

#### **Key Point:** Liposomal amphotericin B is the treatment of choice for disseminated histoplasmosis.

The most appropriate treatment for this patient is liposomal amphotericin B. He has disseminated histoplasmosis, for which he has numerous risk factors. He lives in an area endemic for histoplasmosis (Ohio River Valley), and because he takes prednisone and methotrexate for his rheumatoid arthritis, he is immunosuppressed. He has had significant exposure working in an old barn with bats. He also is hypotensive and diaphoretic and has oral ulcerations and hepatosplenomegaly, which are typical of disseminated infection, as is pancytopenia. Approximately 10% of patients with histoplasmosis develop disseminated infection; if not diagnosed early, the mortality rate is greater than 90%. The treatment of choice for disseminated histoplasmosis is liposomal amphotericin B initially, with de-escalation to itraconazole for several months. A definitive diagnosis can be established by detection of the urinary antigen for histoplasmosis (95% specificity), blood cultures, or a biopsy of the oral lesions.
Ceftriaxone and azithromycin are the recommended drugs of choice for community-acquired pneumonia. The patient's physical examination and chest radiograph are unremarkable, which effectively rules out pneumonia and the need for these antibiotics.
Behçet syndrome is a form of vasculitis associated with recurrent painful oral and genital ulcerations; patients also may demonstrate additional distinctive features, including hypopyon and pathergy. Central nervous system involvement can manifest as headaches, stroke, and behavioral changes. Gastrointestinal involvement may be hard to distinguish from inflammatory bowel disease. Low-dose prednisone or colchicine is used for oral or genital ulcers, and high-dose prednisone and immunomodulating agents are used for more severe disease. Behçet syndrome does not explain the patient's fever, hemodynamic instability, pancytopenia, or hepatomegaly, and colchicine therapy is not warranted.
Itraconazole is an azole triazole used to treat many endemic fungal infections, including histoplasmosis. However, it is not as effective as liposomal amphotericin B in disseminated infection. It may be used for subacute or chronic histoplasmosis, such as pulmonary histoplasmosis.

**Bibliography**

Hage CA, Azar MM, Bahr N, Loyd J, Wheat LJ. Histoplasmosis: up-to-date evidence-based approach to diagnosis and management. Semin Respir Crit Care Med. 2015 Oct;36(5):729-45. doi: 10.1055/s-0035-1562899. Review. PMID: 26398539

This content was last updated in August 2018.