
### Correct Answer: C) Perform thoracentesis 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient for complications of pneumonia (empyema).

#### **Key Point:** In patients with pneumonia unresponsive to appropriate antibiotic therapy, a noninfectious cause mimicking pneumonia, antibiotic-resistant bacterial infection, infection with a nonbacterial organism, or loculated infection such as an empyema may be the cause.

The most appropriate management at this time is to perform thoracentesis. This patient has nonresponsive pneumonia demonstrated by persistent fever of more than 72 hours despite directed therapy (vancomycin) against the causative organism (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus [MRSA]). Lack of response to therapy is a poor prognostic factor and is associated with excess mortality. Antibiotic therapy failure may indicate a noninfectious cause mimicking pneumonia, antibiotic-resistant bacterial infection, infection with a nonbacterial organism, or loculated infection such as an empyema. This patient's chest radiograph shows opacification of the left heart border and hemidiaphragm, raising concern for pleural fluid adjacent to a pulmonary infiltrate. Parapneumonic pleural effusions are present in up to 40% of patients hospitalized with CAP. Determining the need for chest tube drainage requires analysis of the pleural fluid. A finding of purulent or foul-smelling material or a positive Gram stain is diagnostic of an empyema, and a pleural fluid pH less than 7.2 or a pleural fluid glucose level less than 60 mg/dL (3.33 mmol/L) is highly suggestive. Chest tube placement in addition to antibiotics is necessary to treat infection localized to the pleural space. Delayed drainage may result in ongoing fever, sepsis, or fibrosis ultimately requiring surgical intervention.
The role of glucocorticoids in CAP remains controversial. Evidence is accumulating that early administration of glucocorticoids may reduce the host inflammatory response, particularly in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome; however, the routine use of glucocorticoids for CAP has not been established.
The addition of piperacillin-tazobactam would be indicated if a secondary hospital-acquired pulmonary infection were a concern, but the persistent fever and Gram stain showing only gram-positive cocci makes superinfection less likely.
Procalcitonin is produced by cells as a response to bacterial toxins, which result in elevated serum procalcitonin levels in bacterial infections. In viral infections, procalcitonin levels are reduced. Procalcitonin measurement is only one of several factors in determining a bacterial versus a viral cause and should be considered as adjunctive to other diagnostic tools. In this patient, there is little doubt concerning the microbiologic diagnosis, and determining the procalcitonin level will not be helpful.
Daptomycin is contraindicated for use in pulmonary infections because it binds to surfactant and does not achieve adequate levels in the alveoli.

**Bibliography**

McCauley L, Dean N. Pneumonia and empyema: causal, casual or unknown. J Thorac Dis. 2015;7:992-8. PMID: 26150912 doi:10.3978/j.issn.2072-1439.2015.04.36

This content was last updated in August 2018.