
### Correct Answer: A) Plasmodium falciparum 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Plasmodium falciparum malaria.

#### **Key Point:** Plasmodium falciparum infection should be suspected if the patient traveled to Africa, symptoms begin soon after return from an endemic area, and the peripheral blood smear shows a high level of parasitemia.

This pregnant woman has contracted Plasmodium falciparum malaria after visiting a part of the world where malaria is endemic. Her clinical presentation and peripheral blood smear showing many parasitized erythrocytes demonstrating signet ring forms, together with the absence of trophozoites and schizonts, are typical for infection with P. falciparum. Of returning travelers with acute and potentially life-threatening febrile diseases, P. falciparum malaria accounts for most infections. Furthermore, pregnant women are at increased risk of severe disease and a heightened mortality rate, which is likely related to a reduced immune response. Additionally, effects on the microvasculature and sequestering of organisms in the placenta during pregnancy are known to significantly increase the risk of miscarriage, premature delivery, low-birth-weight neonates, congenital infection, and fetal demise.
Accurate identification of P. falciparum and Plasmodium knowlesi is critical because of the risk for severe and potentially lethal infection. P. falciparum should be suspected if the patient traveled to Africa, symptoms begin soon after return from an endemic area, and the peripheral blood smear shows a high level of parasitemia. P. knowlesi is a more recently recognized human pathogen; infection may be severe because of high levels of parasitemia. Examination of the peripheral blood smear reveals all stages of the parasite. The epidemiologic history is helpful because P. knowlesi is not encountered in Africa but rather South and Southeast Asia.
Plasmodium malariae, Plasmodium ovale, and Plasmodium vivax are all associated with a low or very low degree of parasitemia, typically less than 2%, and although the risk of recurrence is high, with the exception of P. vivax, the risk for severe disease is low.

**Bibliography**

Hahn WO, Pottinger PS. Malaria in the traveler: how to manage before departure and evaluate upon return. Med Clin North Am. 2016;100:289-302. PMID: 26900114 doi:10.1016/j.mcna.2015.09.008

This content was last updated in August 2018.