
### Correct Answer: C) Empiric antibiotic therapy and surgical drainage 

**Educational Objective:** Treat spinal epidural abscess.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with spinal epidural abscess who also have neurologic compromise should immediately begin broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy and undergo surgical drainage.

The most appropriate treatment of this patient is empiric antibiotic therapy and surgical drainage of the abscess. Spinal epidural abscesses (SEAs) usually result from contiguous spread from infected vertebrae or intervertebral body disc spaces or from hematogenous dissemination from a distant site. SEA can be challenging to diagnose because symptoms can be mild or nonspecific and fever may not always be present. A high index of suspicion, particularly in patients with atypical or persistent back pain, will facilitate more prompt diagnosis. Symptoms may progress from back pain to accompanying neurologic symptoms, such as bowel or bladder dysfunction, lower extremity weakness, paresthesias, and, in the last stages, paralysis. MRI of the spine with contrast is the preferred imaging modality for diagnosis. Blood cultures should be performed before starting antibiotic therapy to identify the cause, and, in certain cases, cultures may avoid the need for aspiration of the spinal abscess. Medical therapy alone is often successful if no neurologic deficits are present at the time of diagnosis or if substantial complications from surgery are likely because of comorbid conditions. However, surgical drainage is recommended in patients who present with neurologic symptoms or evidence of progression or recurrence despite proper antimicrobial therapy. Serial clinical evaluations and follow-up MRI of the spine (at approximately 4-6 weeks into therapy or with any sign of clinical deterioration) are necessary adjuncts to management without surgery. Empiric parenteral antimicrobial therapy should include coverage for Staphylococcus aureus (accounts for approximately 50% of infections), Streptococcus species, and gram-negative bacilli and may be narrowed based on culture results, if available. Therapy typically lasts between 6 and 8 weeks (or until resolution of abscess on follow-up MRI) but may require modification depending on clinical and radiographic recovery.
Patients with sepsis or neurologic compromise, as in this patient, should start empiric broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy pending blood and abscess cultures. Otherwise, empiric antimicrobial therapy may be withheld until a cause is confirmed. This patient has an indication for immediate empiric antibiotic therapy and surgical drainage.

**Bibliography**

Berbari EF, Kanj SS, Kowalski TJ, Darouiche RO, Widmer AF, Schmitt SK, et al. 2015 Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) clinical practice guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of native vertebral osteomyelitis in adults. Clin Infect Dis. 2015;61:e26-46. PMID: 26229122 doi:10.1093/cid/civ482

This content was last updated in August 2018.