
### Correct Answer: D) Typhoid (enteric) fever 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose typhoid (enteric) fever.

#### **Key Point:** Fever is the major manifestation of typhoid fever and is often associated with a relative bradycardia; additional symptoms may include a brief period of diarrhea followed by constipation, abdominal discomfort, nonproductive cough, mild confusion, and transient small blanching skin lesions (rose spots).

This patient most likely has typhoid fever, also known as enteric fever, caused by either of the typhoidal Salmonella strains, S. typhi or S. paratyphi. Infection is transmitted by ingestion of food or water contaminated by feces. In resource-poor areas, organisms may be spread in community food or, more frequently, by water. In developed countries, transmission is chiefly by food that has been contaminated during preparation by healthy carriers. Symptoms of enteric fever are generally nonspecific. Fever is the major manifestation, typically rising over 2 to 3 nights and persisting for several days. A pulse-temperature dissociation (relative bradycardia) is often present. A brief period of diarrhea followed by constipation, abdominal discomfort, nonproductive cough, mild confusion, and transient small blanching skin lesions (rose spots) are other clinical features. Ceftriaxone is the preferred empiric antibiotic agent, with ciprofloxacin and azithromycin as additional options if resistance is not encountered.
Human brucellosis can develop after exposure to one of four Brucella species through contact with viable organisms in secretions or excretions of infected animals, ingestion of undercooked meat or milk products, or, less often, inhalation. Patients experience numerous nonspecific symptoms as well as recurring or “undulating” waves of fever, but rash, gastrointestinal symptoms, and relative bradycardia are not typical.
Humans acquire leptospirosis after contact with infected urine spread by carrier animals. Classically, illness is biphasic, beginning with a septicemic phase followed by an immune phase, which correlates with the appearance of antibodies in serum. Clinically apparent leptospirosis presents with the abrupt onset of fever, rigors, myalgias, and headache.Conjunctival suffusion in a patient with a nonspecific febrile illness should raise suspicion for the diagnosis of leptospirosis. A more severe form, known as Weil syndrome (icteric leptospirosis), consisting of jaundice, azotemia, and anemia, may also occur. Gastrointestinal symptoms are infrequent.
The gram-negative bacillus Burkholderia pseudomallei, found in soil and water in endemic areas such as Southeast Asia, is the causative agent of melioidosis. After acquisition through direct skin contact, ingestion, or inhalation, an acute pulmonary, septicemic, or localized suppurative infection may occur. The patient's findings are not compatible with melioidosis.

**Bibliography**

Thwaites GE, Day NP. Approach to fever in the returning traveler. N Engl J Med. 2017;376:548-560. PMID: 28177860 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1508435

This content was last updated in August 2018.