
### Correct Answer: A) Coccidioidomycosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose pulmonary coccidioidomycosis.

#### **Key Point:** In endemic areas, as many as one third of cases of community-acquired pneumonia are caused by Coccidioides species.

This patient has disseminated coccidioidomycosis manifesting as a pulmonary infection. The fungus Coccidioides is inhaled and causes an initial pulmonary infection. In endemic areas, as many as one third of cases of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) are caused by Coccidioides species. Healthy persons generally contain the initial infection owing to intact cell-mediated immunity; however, immunocompromised persons are at risk for dissemination. This endemic dimorphic fungal infection is known to mimic other diseases, including tuberculosis, histoplasmosis, sarcoidosis, and cancer. The patient is stationed in Bakersfield, California, an epicenter for this infection. In addition, his assignment as a car mechanic, with much of his work likely conducted outside, increases the risk of infection. Another clue is his peripheral eosinophilia. A definitive diagnosis generally is made on the basis of serology and histopathologic analysis of tissue. When coccidioidomycosis is diagnosed, first-line therapy is fluconazole to prevent progressive or disseminated disease.
Sarcoidosis is a systemic disease of unknown cause. It is slightly more frequent in black persons in their 20s and 30s, especially women. It frequently presents in the respiratory tract as bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy, with or without diffuse parenchymal lung changes. Unilateral hilar lymphadenopathy is distinctly unusual, as is eosinophilia. In addition, sarcoidosis tends to be a much more indolent process, presenting over several months to years with progressive cough and dyspnea. This patient developed symptoms acutely, over a 1-month period.
The most commonly identified organism causing CAP is Streptococcus pneumoniae. Suggestive clinical symptoms include fever, cough, sputum production, and dyspnea. Radiographic findings can be characterized as interstitial infiltrates, lobar consolidation, or cavitary lesions; unilateral hilar lymphadenopathy would be distinctly unusual. Finally, symptoms lasting for a month and peripheral eosinophilia are not characteristic of a bacterial lung infection.
Primary pulmonary tuberculosis may present with mid- to lower-zone unilateral infiltrates, unilateral hilar lymphadenopathy, and pleural effusions. Early in the course of the disease, laboratory findings are often normal; eosinophilia is not present.

**Bibliography**

Stockamp NW, Thompson GR 3rd. Coccidioidomycosis. Infect Dis Clin North Am. 2016;30:229-46. PMID: 26739609 doi:10.1016/j.idc.2015.10.008

This content was last updated in March 2021.