
### Correct Answer: B) Herpes simplex virus type 2 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose meningitis caused by herpes simplex virus type 2.

#### **Key Point:** Herpes simplex virus type 2 can cause acute aseptic meningitis year round and is the most common cause of recurrent viral meningitis.

The most likely diagnosis in this patient is meningitis caused by herpes simplex virus (HSV) type 2. Viral meningitis is the most common cause of “aseptic” meningitis, in which cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Gram stain and cultures are negative. Most patients have typical meningitis symptoms, such as fever, nuchal rigidity, headache, and photophobia. HSV meningitis syndromes can be related to primary infections, with central nervous system involvement as a secondary consequence, or reactivation of latent infection presenting as aseptic meningitis. HSV-2 is more commonly associated with meningitis and is the most common cause of recurrent meningitis (recurrent benign lymphocytic meningitis). HSV-1 is associated with encephalitis. HSV can cause meningitis year round. CSF findings resemble enteroviral meningitis, with lymphocytic pleocytosis, a normal glucose level, and a mildly elevated protein level as in this patient. CSF polymerase chain reaction studies may be used for diagnosing HSV and enterovirus meningitis.
Enteroviruses are the most common cause of viral meningitis, but they usually present between May and November in the Western Hemisphere, with symptoms including headache, fever, nuchal rigidity, photophobia, nausea, vomiting, myalgias, pharyngitis, maculopapular rash, and cough. This patient's presentation in the winter makes this an unlikely cause of her illness.
Mumps virus can cause meningitis, with typical symptoms of fever, headache, and neck stiffness. Since the advent of universal childhood vaccination for measles, mumps, and rubella, the incidence of mumps-related meningitis has dramatically decreased. Meningitis from mumps virus can occur at any point during the course of clinical mumps infection. Parotitis or orchitis may be present. The patient's clinical presentation is not consistent with mumps meningitis.
Focal motor weakness is a common finding in West Nile neuroinvasive disease (WNND), either combined with meningoencephalitis or as an isolated myelitis. In its most severe form, infection of the anterior horn cells can cause a symmetric or asymmetric flaccid paralysis, analogous to that seen with polio in the prevaccination era. The diagnosis of WNND can be confirmed through identification of the IgM antibody in CSF. West Nile virus is a mosquito-borne illness most commonly seen between June and October, making this an unlikely cause of this patient's illness.

**Bibliography**

Nigrovic LE. Aseptic meningitis. Handb Clin Neurol. 2013;112:1153-6. PMID: 23622323 doi:10.1016/B978-0-444-52910-7.00035-0

This content was last updated in August 2018.