
### Correct Answer: D) Human papillomavirus vaccine 

**Educational Objective:** Provide appropriate immunizations for a patient with HIV infection.

#### **Key Point:** Indications for influenza, tetanus-diphtheria-pertussis, hepatitis A virus, and human papillomavirus vaccines are the same for patients with HIV infection as for the general population.

Human papillomavirus (HPV) is the most appropriate immunization for this patient at this time. He was recently diagnosed with HIV infection and has begun antiretroviral therapy. At baseline, his CD4 cell count is normal. He is in an age group for which HPV immunization is recommended, and that recommendation is the same regardless of HIV status. The presence of genital warts does not change the indication for HPV vaccination. He should begin the HPV vaccine series with the first injection today. Indications for influenza, tetanus-diphtheria-pertussis, and hepatitis A virus (HAV) vaccines are also the same for patients with HIV infection as for the general population.
Pneumococcal vaccination is important for all persons with HIV infection, regardless of CD4 cell count. As with other immunocompromised persons, patients with HIV should receive the 13-valent conjugate and 23-valent polysaccharide vaccines, in that order. This patient has already received the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and needs the polysaccharide vaccine, but at least 8 weeks must elapse between these two vaccines to allow for better immune response in this prime-boost strategy. Therefore, giving him the pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine at this visit would be premature.
Serum IgM antibodies to HAV are detectable at the time of symptom onset and remain detectable for approximately 3 to 6 months. Serum IgG antibodies appear in convalescence and remain detectable for decades. The presence of anti-HAV IgG in the absence of anti-HAV IgM indicates past infection or vaccination. This patient does not need vaccination against HAV.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) surface antibody testing is negative, indicating a lack of immunity to HBV; he also has risk factors for HBV that would warrant HBV vaccination. However, the patient tested positive for hepatitis B surface antigen, indicating he already has HBV infection and would not benefit from immunization with the HBV vaccine.

**Bibliography**

Panel on Opportunistic Infections in HIV-Infected Adults and Adolescents. Guidelines for the prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections in HIV-infected adults and adolescents: recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, and the HIV Medicine Association of the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Available at https://aidsinfo.nih.gov/guidelines/html/4/adult-and-adolescent-opportunistic-infection/0. Accessed April 12, 2018.

This content was last updated in August 2018.