
### Correct Answer: D) No treatment 

**Educational Objective:** Manage potential bioterrorism-related anthrax exposure.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with no known direct exposure to anthrax do not require treatment or separation from those who may be infected.

Because this patient has no known direct exposure to anthrax, no treatment is necessary. In cases of proven or suspected anthrax in a family member, no specific treatment or isolation procedures are required for others in the household because spread in health care or household settings has never been demonstrated. In patients with confirmed or suspected bioterrorism-related anthrax exposure, postexposure prophylactic antibiotics, taken for 60 days, should be started as soon as possible. Ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, and doxycycline are the approved drugs for postexposure prophylaxis in adult patients.In pregnant women, ciprofloxacin is the drug of choice, and although tetracyclines are not recommended during pregnancy, doxycycline can be used with caution when ciprofloxacin is contraindicated. Therapy can be completed with amoxicillin if the isolate is found to be penicillin susceptible. Because of the possibility that residual dormant spores may become active after antibiotics are completed, three subcutaneous injections of anthrax vaccine should be given at 2-week intervals as part of postexposure prophylaxis.
No test is available for the detection of anthrax infection in an asymptomatic person, so taking a swab or performing a blood test would provide no useful information.
The human monoclonal antibodies against anthrax toxin, raxibacumab (available only from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) and obiltoxaximab (FDA approved) can be combined with antibiotics for treatment of inhalation anthrax or for postexposure prophylaxis when alternative preventive therapies are not available or appropriate. In this scenario, they are not indicated for the patient or her husband who has received adequate prophylaxis for anthrax and does not have systemic disease.

**Bibliography**

Hendricks KA, Wright ME, Shadomy SV, Bradley JS, Morrow MG, Pavia AT, et al; Workgroup on Anthrax Clinical Guidelines. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention expert panel meetings on prevention and treatment of anthrax in adults. Emerg Infect Dis. 2014;20. PMID: 24447897 doi:10.3201/eid2002.130687

This content was last updated in August 2018.