
### Correct Answer: D) No further testing or treatment 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a patient based on syphilis serology results.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with previously treated syphilis, treponemal serology results will remain positive, but nontreponemal tests will be negative; these patients require no further testing or treatment.

This woman's serologic results are consistent with successfully treated syphilis, and no additional testing or treatment is indicated. Many laboratories use a “reverse” screening strategy, whereby a treponemal test, such as an enzyme immunoassay (EIA), is performed first and, if positive, is followed by a nontreponemal test (rapid plasma regain [RPR] or Venereal Disease Research Laboratory [VDRL] test). If the EIA is positive and the RPR or VDRL is negative, the positive result should be confirmed by a second treponemal test (such as the fluorescent treponemal antibody test performed in this patient). A positive EIA (confirmed by a second test) with a negative RPR is the expected serologic result in a patient who has been treated for syphilis. The treponemal test (EIA) remains positive indefinitely, but the nontreponemal test (RPR or VDRL) should remain negative.
If the nontreponemal test became positive again, it would indicate a new infection, and treatment, based on disease stage, would be indicated. If this patient had reported no history of treatment for syphilis, she should be treated for syphilis of unknown duration, which consists of 3 weekly doses of intramuscular benzathine penicillin. Single-dose benzathine penicillin is indicated for the treatment of primary, secondary, and early latent syphilis.
Because the positive EIA result was already confirmed by a second treponemal test, the fluorescent treponemal antibody, additional testing with another treponemal test, such as the Treponema pallidum particle agglutination assay, is not necessary.

**Bibliography**

Workowski KA, Bolan GA; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually transmitted diseases treatment guidelines, 2015. MMWR Recomm Rep. 2015;64:1-137. PMID: 26042815

This content was last updated in August 2018.