
### Correct Answer: E) Tell the patient she does not have HIV infection 

**Educational Objective:** Interpret the results of HIV testing.

#### **Key Point:** A screening HIV test result that is positive on the initial antigen/antibody combination immunoassay but negative on the antibody differentiation immunoassay and nucleic acid amplification testing for HIV RNA represents a false-positive result.

This woman had a false-positive result for HIV and should be reassured she does not have HIV infection. She has no symptoms to suggest acute infection. The initial HIV combination immunoassay tests for HIV-1 or HIV-2 antibody and p24 antigen. If reactive, an HIV-1/2 antibody differentiation immunoassay is performed, which differentiates between HIV-1 and HIV-2 antibodies. If the antibody differentiation assay is reactive for HIV-1 antibody, then HIV-1 infection is confirmed. If the antibody differentiation assay is negative, then testing for HIV RNA by nucleic acid amplification is performed. A negative antibody differentiation assay with a positive HIV RNA test would indicate acute HIV infection (in the “window” period after infection but before antibody development). But if the HIV RNA assay is also negative (no HIV RNA detected), then no evidence for HIV infection exists, and the initial test was a false positive. Although false-positive findings are rare, in a population with low pretest probability (such as in screening), false-positive results on the initial antigen/antibody combination immunoassay may be seen with higher frequency than true-positive results; waiting for the confirmatory testing results is crucial to avoid misdiagnosis and unnecessary additional testing and treatment.
Because the patient does not have HIV infection, it would be inappropriate to begin antiretroviral therapy. Likewise, baseline HIV resistance testing is not indicated, nor would it be possible because the patient has no detectable HIV RNA to be genotyped.
It is important to assess the CD4 cell count for all persons newly diagnosed with HIV infection so the level of immunocompromise and consequent risk for opportunistic infections can be determined and prophylaxis can be started, if indicated. But this patient does not have HIV infection. Testing CD4 cell count as a surrogate for HIV infection is inappropriate because the CD4 level is neither sensitive nor specific for HIV infection.
Western blot testing for HIV is no longer performed as part of the laboratory protocol for diagnosing HIV infection because of problems with sensitivity in acute infection and with interpretation of indeterminate results.

**Bibliography**

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Association of Public Health Laboratories. Laboratory testing for the diagnosis of HIV infection: updated recommendations. Available at http://dx.doi.org/10.15620/cdc.23447. Published June 27, 2014. Accessed November 2, 2017.

This content was last updated in August 2018.