
### Correct Answer: A) Cryptosporidium 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Cryptosporidium infection.

#### **Key Point:** The protozoan Cryptosporidium is the most common cause of swimming pool–related outbreaks of diarrhea; diagnosis is made by microscopic examination of the stool or by stool antigen testing.

This patient has watery diarrhea associated with swimming pool exposure, and the oocysts observed microscopically represent Cryptosporidium. This parasitic protozoan is tolerant to chlorine and can persist for days in a chlorinated pool. Cryptosporidium has become the leading cause of swimming pool–related outbreaks of diarrheal illness. Swallowing infected water can result in infection. The incubation period is about 1 week, and the clinical presentation typically includes watery diarrhea, crampy abdominal pain, dehydration, fever, malaise, nausea, vomiting, and weight loss. The infection typically resolves in immunocompetent persons, but infection can be more serious and prolonged in those with immunocompromise, particularly in persons with AIDS who are not receiving combination antiretroviral therapy. Diagnosis can be established microscopically by visualization of oocysts with modified acid-fast staining. Because oocysts are shed intermittently, diagnosis may require stool antigen testing using polymerase chain reaction, enzyme immunoassay, or direct fluorescent antibody testing.
Although enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) infection can be acquired by aspiration of contaminated swimming pool water, it typically produces bloody diarrhea. EHEC is a gram-negative rod that does not exhibit modified acid-fast staining.
Norovirus is the most common cause of gastroenteritis and is characterized by explosive vomiting and diarrhea. It is spread person to person through the fecal-oral route, leading to community outbreaks. But the virus is not visualized with modified acid-fast staining. A diagnostic assay for viral gastroenteritis with polymerase chain reaction testing is reserved for public health investigation.
Modified acid-fast staining can detect Nocardia species, but the organisms are filamentous branching rods. Infection usually involves the lungs, central nervous system, and skin, but not the gastrointestinal tract.
Vibrio parahaemolyticus lives in salt water and causes diarrhea, usually after consumption of undercooked shellfish, especially oysters. This gram-negative rod is not detected with a modified acid-fast stain and requires special culture media with high salt content for growth.

**Bibliography**

Wright SG. Protozoan infections of the gastrointestinal tract. Infect Dis Clin North Am. 2012;26:323-39. PMID: 22632642 doi:10.1016/j.idc.2012.03.009

This content was last updated in August 2018.