
### Correct Answer: C) Ceftriaxone plus levofloxacin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat community-acquired pneumonia in a hospitalized patient requiring ICU support.

#### **Key Point:** Guideline-based recommendations for empiric therapy of community-acquired pneumonia requiring ICU admission include a β-lactam (ampicillin-sulbactam, cefotaxime, ceftriaxone, or ceftaroline) to treat Streptococcus pneumoniae, gram-negative bacilli, or Haemophilus influenzae plus an agent active against Legionella, such as a macrolide or quinolone.

The most appropriate treatment is ceftriaxone plus levofloxacin. This otherwise healthy patient presents with severe community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). The initial evaluation reveals respiratory failure (tachypnea and hypoxia), uremia, altered mentation, and multilobar infiltrates, all of which are minor criteria for severe disease based on Infectious Diseases Society of America/American Thoracic Society (IDSA/ATS) criteria. Patients with at least three minor criteria for severe disease have increased risk of mortality and are best managed in the ICU. Guideline-based recommendations for empiric therapy of CAP requiring ICU care include a β-lactam (ampicillin-sulbactam, cefotaxime, ceftriaxone, or ceftaroline) to treat Streptococcus pneumoniae, gram-negative bacilli, or Haemophilus influenzae plus an agent active against Legionella, such as a macrolide or quinolone. The initial evaluation of this patient was positive for rhinovirus on a respiratory viral panel (RVP). Respiratory viruses are increasingly recognized among hospitalized patients with CAP; however, the significance of this finding is uncertain. Respiratory viruses may predispose patients to a secondary bacterial pneumonia or be present as a copathogen. Considering the severity of this patient's illness, antibiotics should be initiated and continued despite the positive RVP until a bacterial cause is excluded.
Azithromycin monotherapy is an appropriate choice for treatment of CAP in a previously healthy outpatient. Patients with more severe CAP are at risk for infections with numerous organisms, as well as with drug-resistant pathogens. For this reason, patients with CAP admitted to the ICU should receive combination therapy with an antipneumococcal β-lactam and either a macrolide or a fluoroquinolone.
Ceftazidime is a third-generation cephalosporin that is effective against Pseudomonas but has minimal activity against gram-positive organisms, including S. pneumoniae, and therefore would not be an appropriate choice, even as combination therapy with a macrolide, to treat CAP.
Piperacillin-tazobactam plus ciprofloxacin would be indicated when concern for Pseudomonas pneumonia is present; however, in a previously healthy patient with minimal health care interactions or previous antibiotic use, Pseudomonas would be an unlikely pathogen.

**Bibliography**

Metlay JP, Waterer GW, Long AC, et al. Diagnosis and treatment of adults with community-acquired pneumonia. an official clinical practice guideline of the American Thoracic Society and Infectious Diseases Society of America. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2019;200:e45-e67. PMID: 31573350 doi:10.1164/rccm.201908-1581ST

This content was last updated in March 2020.