
### Correct Answer: C) Ciprofloxacin 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent travelers' diarrhea in a patient with inflammatory bowel disease.

#### **Key Point:** Persons with chronic inflammatory bowel disease or who are immunocompromised are most susceptible to severe travelers' diarrhea or complications, and prophylaxis (fluoroquinolones preferred) should be provided to these patients.

Ciprofloxacin is the most appropriate preventive measure for this patient. Travelers' diarrhea, defined as three or more loose or watery bowel movements per day associated with other signs or symptoms such as fever, abdominal pain, cramps, or blood in the stool, is the most common travel-associated infection; it has an incidence of 10% to 40% for trips lasting more than 1 week. Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli is the causative agent in most cases. The risk of infection is related to certain geographic travel destinations (South and Southeast Asia, Central and South America, the Middle East and sub-Saharan Africa) as well as individual characteristics. Persons with chronic inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn and ulcerative colitis) or who are immunocompromised (HIV, organ transplantation, those taking immunosuppressant medications) are particularly susceptible. Although most diarrheal episodes are self-limited and resolve within a few days, they can sometimes be protracted and severe, causing significant volume depletion and electrolyte imbalance. In some persons, chronic diarrhea or irritable bowel syndrome may persist for many months after the initial travel diarrhea episode has subsided. Prevention strategies generally focus on advice for avoiding potentially contaminated water and food, but studies have not conclusively proven these measures to be significantly effective. Prophylactic administration of systemic antibiotics has been determined to be highly effective in preventing infection, but it should only be offered to those at greatest risk for complications should infection occur. Nevertheless, in these higher risk persons, the duration of antibiotic administration should not extend beyond 2 to 3 weeks in an effort to decrease the chances of medication-related adverse effects or the development of drug resistance. The fluoroquinolone antibiotics (ciprofloxacin or norfloxacin) are the preferred drugs.
The macrolide antibiotic azithromycin is a highly effective agent for the treatment of various bacterial pathogens causing enterocolitis, but it has not been adequately evaluated as a prophylactic medication.
More than two thirds of persons who took bismuth subsalicylate to prevent diarrhea while traveling found it effective. However, it requires multiple daily doses, has potential adverse effects, and would be contraindicated in this woman with an aspirin allergy.
Probiotics have been proposed for the prevention and treatment of numerous medical disorders, but proven benefit has been limited to only a handful of disorders; travelers' diarrhea is not one of them.
Even though the risk of infection is less than 50%, this woman has Crohn colitis, so not recommending chemoprophylaxis may place her at undue risk.

**Bibliography**

Steffen R, Hill DR, DuPont HL. Traveler's diarrhea: a clinical review. JAMA. 2015;313:71-80. PMID: 25562268 doi:10.1001/jama.2014.17006

This content was last updated in October 2020.