
### Correct Answer: A) Assess catheter daily for necessity and potential removal 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent central line–associated bloodstream infection.

#### **Key Point:** Central venous catheters should be assessed daily for continued necessity and removed promptly when they are no longer needed.

This patient's central venous catheter (CVC) should be assessed daily for continued necessity and potential removal. Approximately 250,000 central line–associated bloodstream infections (CLABSIs) occur in the United States every year, with 80,000 occurring in the ICU. CLABSIs increase length of hospital stay up to 24 days and have an attributable mortality rate of 35%. Approximately 55% of patients in the ICU and 24% of those in other units have a central line. Antimicrobial resistance is a problem for most CLABSI pathogens. The risk of CLABSI can be reduced by routinely incorporating the CVC bundle as part of patient care. The CVC insertion bundle includes hand hygiene; use of full barrier precautions (including a large full-body sterile drape to cover the patient during catheter insertion) and personal protective equipment (mask, cap, sterile gown, and gloves); chlorhexidine skin antisepsis; selection of optimal catheter type (such as selecting the minimum number of ports or lumens needed) and site; sterile dressing; and daily review of line necessity with prompt removal of unnecessary catheters. The daily review of line necessity and documentation can be achieved with multidisciplinary rounds, daily reminders, and automated alerts. These practices are important for decreasing the risk of developing CLABSIs. Just as with the insertion bundle, a maintenance bundle helps decrease the risk of introducing organisms during use of the catheter. Components of the maintenance bundle include daily review of line necessity with prompt removal of unnecessary catheters, hand hygiene before manipulation of the intravenous system, care of injection ports, and proper monitoring of catheter site dressing and dressing changes.
Guidelines recommend against routinely replacing CVCs (or arterial catheters) and administering antimicrobial prophylaxis for short-term or tunneled catheter insertion. Neither practice has been shown to decrease central line–associated infections. In fact, routinely changing central catheters may increase the risk of infection by introducing bacteria from the skin at the time of insertion.

**Bibliography**

Marschall J, Mermel LA, Fakih M, Hadaway L, Kallen A, O’Grady NP, et al; Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America. Strategies to prevent central line-associated bloodstream infections in acute care hospitals: 2014 update. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol. 2014;35:753-71. PMID: 24915204 doi:10.1086/676533

This content was last updated in August 2018.