
### Correct Answer: A) Continue TDF, emtricitabine, and efavirenz 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent perinatal transmission of HIV.

#### **Key Point:** Antiretroviral therapy during pregnancy is crucial and significantly decreases the risk of perinatal transmission of HIV to the baby.

This pregnant woman with well-controlled HIV infection should continue the same antiretroviral regimen. Antiretroviral therapy during pregnancy is crucial and significantly decreases the risk of perinatal transmission of HIV to the baby. Although most transmission in untreated women occurs at the time of delivery, in utero transmission also occurs, and maintaining therapy throughout pregnancy or starting therapy immediately is important to significantly reduce the risk. Although concerns have been raised regarding the safety of efavirenz and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in pregnancy, more recent data demonstrate the safety of these agents, including in the first trimester. A woman whose HIV is well controlled and is found to be pregnant should continue the same regimen unless another reason exists to change it.
Pausing antiretroviral therapy would result in rebound of viral replication and viremia, which would significantly increase the risk of in utero transmission of HIV to the developing fetus.
Testing for HIV drug resistance can be genotypic (looking for specific mutations associated with resistance to specific drugs) or phenotypic (assessing whether HIV can replicate in the presence of achievable levels of specific drugs). Resistance testing should always be done before an initial drug regimen is chosen and when treatment failure occurs, as indicated by failure to suppress viral load or an increase in viral load that was previously suppressed. Resistance testing is unnecessary at this time because no virologic failure is evident that would necessitate changing therapy. Moreover, it would not be possible to perform resistance testing in a patient with an undetectable viral load because not enough virus is present to test. A viral load level greater than 500 copies/mL is usually necessary to successfully perform resistance testing.
Zidovudine, lamivudine, and ritonavir-boosted lopinavir is a valid alternative for treating HIV; it was previously a preferred regimen in pregnancy. However, changing this patient's therapy, which is well tolerated and controls her HIV infection well, is unnecessary and would only risk new adverse effects, poor adherence (because of more pills or more frequent dosing), or treatment failure.

**Bibliography**

Panel on Treatment of Pregnant Women with HIV Infection and Prevention of Perinatal Transmission. Recommendations for the use of antiretroviral drugs in pregnant women with HIV infection and interventions to reduce perinatal HIV transmission in the United States. Available at https://aidsinfo.nih.gov/guidelines/html/3/perinatal/0. Accessed April 12, 2018.

This content was last updated in August 2018.