
### Correct Answer: C) Single dose of hepatitis A vaccine 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent acute hepatitis A infection.

#### **Key Point:** Hepatitis A vaccination should ideally occur 2 to 4 weeks before travel to an endemic region; however, a single dose of the vaccine given any time before travel provides adequate protection to otherwise healthy persons.

This patient should be given a single dose of hepatitis A vaccine. Worldwide, hepatitis A is the most common cause of acute viral hepatitis. Infection with this human-only RNA picornavirus is spread primarily through the fecal-oral route. Rates of endemicity are highest in developing nations, where hygiene and sanitary measures are less than optimal. Since the availability of effective hepatitis A vaccines in the mid-1990s, this enteric virus has been designated the leading cause of infection and death among vaccine-preventable diseases. Infected adolescents and adults usually present with fever, malaise, nausea, and anorexia, with more than 70% exhibiting jaundice. Most infection is benign and resolves uneventfully. Rarely, patients may experience fulminant hepatitis and acute liver failure. However, hepatitis A does not become a chronic disease. Either of the two inactivated cell culture–produced vaccines that have become part of the recommended routine childhood vaccine schedule can be used. In addition to avoiding potentially contaminated food and water, vaccination is also strongly advised for those planning to travel to areas that pose significant risk of infection. Ideally, vaccination should occur at least 2 to 4 weeks before departure. Nevertheless, a single dose of vaccine given any time before travel provides adequate protection in otherwise healthy persons. Depending on the particular vaccine product used, a second dose is administered between 6 to 18 months later.
Another dose of vaccine administered 7 days after the first would have no immunologic boosting effect.
Passive immunization with intramuscular immune globulin adds no benefit when administered alone or in combination with vaccination for most healthy patients when time before travel is short. However, to optimally guard against infection, immune globulin is recommended with vaccination in persons with chronic liver disease or other chronic medical conditions, immunocompromised states, and older adults if travel is scheduled in less than 2 weeks. Immune globulin alone would also be warranted in persons who are allergic to or decline vaccination and in children younger than 12 months for whom the vaccine is not approved.
Providing no intervention would place this traveler at undue risk of acquiring hepatitis A infection.

**Bibliography**

Fiore AE, Wasley A, Bell BP; Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). Prevention of hepatitis A through active or passive immunization: recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP). MMWR Recomm Rep. 2006;55:1-23. PMID: 16708058

This content was last updated in August 2018.