
### Correct Answer: D) Switch piperacillin-tazobactam to meropenem 

**Educational Objective:** Treat multidrug-resistant urinary tract infection.

#### **Key Point:** The carbapenem class of antibiotics (imipenem, meropenem, doripenem, ertapenem) is the preferred class of agents for treating infections with extended-spectrum β-lactamase–producing organisms.

Antibiotic therapy should be switched from piperacillin-tazobactam to meropenem. This patient has a complicated urinary tract infection (UTI), defined by the presence of a chronic indwelling urinary catheter. The pattern of antibiotic susceptibility of Escherichia coli from the urine culture suggests an extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL)–producing organism. ESBL-producing gram-negative organisms are capable of hydrolyzing higher generation cephalosporins that have an oxyimino side chain, including cefotaxime, ceftazidime, ceftriaxone, and cefepime. Laboratory identification of ESBLs is difficult because they are a heterogeneous group of enzymes. The carbapenem class of antibiotics (imipenem, meropenem, doripenem, ertapenem) is the preferred class of agents for treating infections with ESBL-producing organisms.
Adding gentamicin would provide no benefit. Additionally, this patient has kidney disease; thus, aminoglycosides should be avoided if at all possible.
On laboratory testing, ESBL-producing gram-negative organisms may appear susceptible to piperacillin-tazobactam; however, susceptibility breakpoints do not always reflect clinical success. Thus, piperacillin-tazobactam may be insufficient to treat infections with ESBL-producing organisms. An exception is uncomplicated UTI, in which piperacillin-tazobactam may be effective because high concentrations of the antibiotic are achievable in urine.
The oxyimino cephalosporins (such as cefepime) should not be used, even if an ESBL-producing organism appears to be susceptible on laboratory testing. Treatment failures are common, even with higher doses, so carbapenems are the preferred antibiotic.

**Bibliography**

Kaye KS, Pogue JM. Infections caused by resistant gram-negative bacteria: epidemiology and management. Pharmacotherapy. 2015;35:949-62. PMID: 26497481 doi:10.1002/phar.1636

This content was last updated in August 2018.