
### Correct Answer: B) Cefazolin and rifampin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat osteomyelitis associated with orthopedic hardware.

#### **Key Point:** Rifampin should be used in combination with another antistaphylococcal agent when managing Staphylococcus aureus osteomyelitis in the setting of orthopedic hardware if the hardware cannot be removed.

Cefazolin and rifampin are appropriate therapy for treatment of methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) osteomyelitis associated with orthopedic hardware. Identification of the causative pathogen, administration of adequate antimicrobials for a prolonged duration, surgical debridement (if warranted), and removal of orthopedic prosthetic devices (if feasible) influence the success of osteomyelitis treatment. Optimal management of this patient's infection includes hardware removal; however, this is not possible because the fracture has not yet healed. Hardware-associated infections caused by S. aureus are difficult to eradicate because of the biofilm that forms on the hardware. First-line treatment of MSSA osteomyelitis consists of a β-lactam agent such as cefazolin; a randomized controlled trial and systematic review of the literature have demonstrated that if infected hardware cannot be removed, the addition of rifampin increases the chances of therapeutic success compared with an antistaphylococcal agent alone.
Although cefazolin has activity against MSSA as well as good bone penetration, it would not be an appropriate therapeutic option for the treatment of hardware-associated osteomyelitis without the addition of rifampin.
Ceftaroline has coverage for MSSA, methicillin-resistant S. aureus, and Enterobacteriaceae, but it is unnecessarily broad coverage for the treatment of this patient's MSSA infection.
Vancomycin, a bacteriostatic agent, is less effective than β-lactam agents for the treatment of MSSA and is typically restricted to patients with drug intolerance or allergy.

**Bibliography**

Kim BN, Kim ES, Oh MD. Oral antibiotic treatment of staphylococcal bone and joint infections in adults. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2014;69:309-22. PMID: 24072167 doi:10.1093/jac/dkt374

This content was last updated in August 2018.