
### Correct Answer: A) Amoxicillin-clavulanate 

**Educational Objective:** Treat an immunocompromised patient after a dog bite.

#### **Key Point:** Amoxicillin-clavulanate is recommended for patients with animal bites who are immunosuppressed (including patients with cirrhosis and asplenia); have wounds with associated edema, lymphatic or venous insufficiency, or crush injury; have wounds involving a joint or bone; have deep puncture wounds; or have moderate to severe injuries, especially when involving the face, genitalia, or hand.

The most appropriate management for this patient would be administration of amoxicillin-clavulanate. Because of asplenia, he is immunodeficient and should receive prophylactic antibiotic therapy after the dog bite, even without evidence of infection. Infections typically result from the host's skin flora and the animal's mouth flora. This flora is a mix of aerobic and anaerobic organisms, including staphylococci, streptococci, Bacteroides species, Porphyromonas species, Fusobacterium species, Capnocytophaga canimorsus, and Pasteurella species. C. canimorsus is a gram-negative bacillus that can cause overwhelming sepsis in patients with functional or anatomic asplenia who have experienced a dog bite or scratch. Because of its activity against pathogens associated with animal bite wounds, a 3- to 5-day course of amoxicillin-clavulanate is recommended for patients who are immunosuppressed (including patients with cirrhosis and asplenia); have wounds with associated edema, lymphatic or venous insufficiency, or crush injury; have wounds involving a joint or bone; have deep puncture wounds; or have moderate to severe injuries, especially when involving the face, genitalia, or hand. If a patient is allergic to penicillin, a combination of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or a fluoroquinolone or doxycycline plus clindamycin or metronidazole can be used.
Because these infections are typically polymicrobial, consisting of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, neither ciprofloxacin nor metronidazole alone would be adequate. Ciprofloxacin lacks anaerobic bacterial coverage, and metronidazole lacks aerobic activity.
Because of this the patient's immunodeficiency, observation alone would not be recommended by the Infectious Diseases Society of America guidelines.

**Bibliography**

Stevens DL, Bisno AL, Chambers HF, Dellinger EP, Goldstein EJ, Gorbach SL, et al. Practice guidelines for the diagnosis and management of skin and soft tissue infections: 2014 update by the infectious diseases society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2014;59:147-59. PMID: 24947530 doi:10.1093/cid/ciu296

This content was last updated in August 2018.