
### Correct Answer: A) Ceftolozane-tazobactam and colistin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat multidrug-resistant intra-abdominal infection.

#### **Key Point:** Ceftolozane-tazobactam is a newer antipseudomonal cephalosporin combined with a β-lactamase inhibitor that can be used in the treatment of multidrug-resistant intra-abdominal infection.

The Pseudomonas isolate should be tested for susceptibility to ceftolozane-tazobactam and colistin. This patient has an intra-abdominal infection caused by carbapenem-resistant (meropenem and doripenem) Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The antimicrobial options for treating carbapenem-resistant organisms are limited. Ceftolozane-tazobactam consists of a newer antipseudomonal cephalosporin combined with a β-lactamase inhibitor. It has activity against some extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL)–producing gram-negative organisms as well as carbapenem-resistant strains of Pseudomonas. Its efficacy is reduced in patients whose creatinine clearance rate is 50 mL/min or less. Ceftolozane-tazobactam is approved to treat complicated urinary tract infections and complicated intra-abdominal infections. For complicated intra-abdominal infections, ceftolozane-tazobactam must be paired with metronidazole because it lacks antianaerobic activity.
Colistin is an older antimicrobial agent that has made a resurgence because of its bactericidal activity against pan-resistant gram-negative organisms (including carbapenem-resistant, gram-negative organisms). Half of patients who are administered colistin develop nephrotoxicity, which limits the drug's usefulness in many cases. Kidney function should be closely monitored during administration, and colistin should be dose adjusted for patients with kidney disease. Paresthesias are a commonly reported neurotoxicity. Unfortunately, colistin resistance has been reported and appears to be increasing.
Ertapenem is a non-antipseudomonal carbapenem, so it would not be an option for this patient. Likewise, tobramycin is an aminoglycoside, which has poor activity and penetration into abscesses and would not be a consideration for this patient.
Fosfomycin is used to treat urinary tract infections caused by several multidrug-resistant organisms (such as vancomycin-resistant enterococci, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, and resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae). Fosfomycin has poor tissue penetration and is not indicated for infections other than uncomplicated urinary tract infections.
Minocycline is another older antimicrobial agent that has been used recently to treat multidrug-resistant Acinetobacter as well as Stenotrophomonas maltophilia infections, but it does not have activity against Pseudomonas.

**Bibliography**

Morrill HJ, Pogue JM, Kaye KS, LaPlante KL. Treatment options for carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae infections. Open Forum Infect Dis. 2015;2:ofv050. PMID: 26125030 doi:10.1093/ofid/ofv050

This content was last updated in October 2020.