
### Correct Answer: E) Streptococcus pneumoniae 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate community-acquired pneumonia in a pregnant patient.

#### **Key Point:** The microbiology of community-acquired pneumonia in pregnancy is similar to that seen in the general population; among patients requiring hospitalization, the most common pathogens are Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, and atypical organisms, including Legionella species, Chlamydia pneumoniae, and Mycoplasma pneumoniae.

Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most likely cause of this patient's community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). Pneumonia is the most common cause of fatal nonobstetric infection in pregnancy. The microbiology of CAP in pregnancy is similar to that seen in the general population. Among patients requiring hospitalization, the most common pathogens are S. pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, and atypical organisms, including Legionella species, Chlamydia pneumoniae, and Mycoplasma pneumoniae. Empiric treatment of pregnant patients is similar to that in nonpregnant adults, although quinolones and tetracyclines are relatively contraindicated because of the potential for teratogenic effects. In addition to these common bacterial causes of CAP, pregnant women are at increased risk for serious viral pneumonia from influenza virus and varicella-zoster virus, so it is recommended that pregnant women receive seasonal influenza vaccination.
Gram-negative bacteria, including Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Acinetobacter species, Escherichia coli, and Enterobacter species, are rarely implicated in CAP, including among pregnant women hospitalized for pneumonia. Most patients with CAP caused by gram-negative bacteria have a predisposing risk factor, such as bronchiectasis, cystic fibrosis, or COPD, and develop severe pneumonia necessitating admission and care in the ICU.
Pregnancy causes a decrease in T-cell function, and pregnant women are at increased risk for severe Listeria infections, including meningitis and sepsis. However, Listeria rarely causes pulmonary infection and would be an unlikely cause of infection in this patient.
Staphylococcus aureus is an increasingly recognized cause of CAP, with risk factors including antecedent viral infection or injection drug use. Maternal S. aureus infection can occur perinatally, related to delivery, surgery, or indwelling lines, but remains a rare cause of CAP in the prenatal period.

**Bibliography**

Mehta N, Chen K, Hardy E, Powrie R. Respiratory disease in pregnancy. Best Pract Res Clin Obstet Gynaecol. 2015;29:598-611. PMID: 25997564 doi:10.1016/j.bpobgyn.2015.04.005

This content was last updated in August 2018.