
### Correct Answer: B) Oseltamivir 

**Educational Objective:** Treat influenza virus infection with a neuraminidase inhibitor.

#### **Key Point:** Neuraminidase inhibitors (oseltamivir, zanamivir, peramivir) and the endonuclease inhibitor baloxavir are indicated for the treatment of influenza A and B and can be administered through various routes (oral, intranasal, intravenous).

The most appropriate treatment for this patient is the neuraminidase inhibitor oseltamivir. During a confirmed local influenza outbreak, infection can be reliably diagnosed on the basis of clinical criteria alone. When confirmation is needed, nucleic acid amplification tests of respiratory samples from nasopharyngeal swabs detect influenza A and B. Detection of viral nucleic acid by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is rapid, has high sensitivity and specificity, and can determine the type and subtype of influenza virus. Annual influenza vaccination is the most effective intervention for preventing influenza and is recommended for all persons 6 months or older. Only a few randomized trials have assessed the efficacy of influenza vaccines in older individuals. These trials suggest that the vaccines are approximately 60% effective against influenza in adults 65 years and older. Nevertheless, immunization is likely to prevent hospitalization in older adults. Neuraminidase inhibitors have activity against influenza A and B. They can be given orally (oseltamivir), intranasally (zanamivir), or intravenously (peramivir). Baloxavir, a polymerase acidic endonuclease inhibitor, is another oral treatment option; however, this agent has only been studied in outpatients at low risk for complications and is more expensive than oseltamivir. Antiviral therapy is recommended for severe disease, including all hospitalized patients or those with confirmed or suspected influenza infection at high risk for complications. Older adult patients (older than ≥65 years), young children, pregnant women, and patients with chronic medical conditions (especially chronic lung disease and heart disease) are at higher risk for severe primary influenza complications such as superimposed bacterial pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae or Staphylococcus aureus and death.
M2 inhibitors, such as amantadine and rimantadine, were the first agents introduced for influenza treatment, but they are only active against influenza A. Therefore, these agents would be ineffective against this patient's infection with influenza B.
The Infectious Diseases Society of America guidelines recommend initiating antiviral treatment as soon as possible for hospitalized adults with documented or suspected influenza and for outpatients with severe or progressive illness regardless of illness duration. Treatment is indicated as soon as possible for all other patients at high risk for influenza-related complications. Treatment of otherwise healthy outpatients can be considered if started within 48 hours of symptom onset. Antiviral therapy in patients with documented influenza decreases recovery time, hospitalization rates, and complications. Because this patient can be treated as an outpatient, oseltamivir, baloxavir, or zanamivir would be appropriate choices. Intravenous peramivir is typically reserved for patients who cannot tolerate or are otherwise incapable of taking inhaled or enteral agents.

**Bibliography**

Uyeki TM. Influenza. Ann Intern Med. 2017;167:ITC33-ITC48. PMID: 28869984

This content was last updated in May 2019.