
### Correct Answer: A) Intravenous cefepime and kidney ultrasonography 

**Educational Objective:** Manage urinary tract infections in men.

#### **Key Point:** Men with febrile urinary tract infections require prompt antimicrobial therapy and anatomic assessment of the upper and lower urinary tract.

This patient should be given intravenous cefepime and fluids and should undergo kidney ultrasonography. According to the 2016 Critical Care Congress Third International Consensus Definition of Sepsis and Septic Shock (Sepsis-3), this man is septic. The probable source of his severe infection is the urinary tract (UTI), likely acute prostatitis, which is the most significant cause of bacteremia in older adult men. The prompt administration of adequate antimicrobial therapy is the most important factor in decreasing morbidity, mortality, and length of hospital stay in patients with sepsis. Cefepime is an appropriate choice because it possesses dependable bactericidal activity against common urinary pathogens as well as potentially drug-resistant organisms, including Pseudomonas. In addition to antimicrobial therapy and supportive medical care, men with febrile UTIs require anatomic assessment of the upper and lower urinary tract by either kidney ultrasonography or CT with contrast (more sensitive, but contraindicated with kidney disease) to determine the need for source control. When acute prostatitis is the presumed diagnosis, imaging generally is unnecessary, but assurance that this patient with sepsis does not have a prostatic abscess may prove beneficial if his fever persists beyond 72 hours.
The empiric use of ciprofloxacin or other fluoroquinolone antibiotics in a hospitalized patient with a complicated UTI is no longer recommended because several strains of Escherichia coli and other Enterobacteriaceae have become resistant to these agents.
Detection of a boggy and tender prostate gland on gentle digital rectal examination would suggest a prostate focus of infection, but vigorous prostate massage is not indicated in acute prostatitis because of a lack of diagnostic or therapeutic benefit and possibility of facilitating bacteremia.
The β-lactam and β-lactamase inhibitor, piperacillin-tazobactam, would be an adequate initial antibiotic selection but should be avoided in a patient with an undocumented penicillin allergy, even if he has tolerated cephalosporin medications.

**Bibliography**

Schaeffer AJ, Nicolle LE. Clinical practice. Urinary tract infections in older men. N Engl J Med. 2016;374:562-71. PMID: 26863357 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp1503950

This content was last updated in August 2018.