
### Correct Answer: C) Vancomycin and cefepime 

**Educational Objective:** Treat vertebral osteomyelitis in a patient with signs of sepsis.

#### **Key Point:** When sepsis is suspected among patients with osteomyelitis, empiric antibiotic therapy should begin, even when the microbial cause of the infection has not yet been determined.

The patient has vertebral osteomyelitis and clinical findings suggestive of sepsis; empiric antibiotic therapy to cover the most likely pathogens should be initiated. A diagnosis of vertebral osteomyelitis should be considered in patients reporting worsening back or neck pain without an alternate explanation. Local tenderness over the site of spinal infection is frequently detected. Radicular pain, motor weakness, and sensory changes may be present. Common sources of hematogenous osteomyelitis are distant foci of infection (for example, skin and soft tissue, genitourinary, gastrointestinal), intravascular catheters, and infective endocarditis. Hematogenous osteomyelitis is typically monomicrobial, and Staphylococcus aureus is the most commonly isolated pathogen; however, aerobic, gram-negative bacilli cause disease in many patients. Certain patient-specific conditions are associated with less common bacterial organisms, including Salmonella osteomyelitis in persons with sickle cell disease and Pseudomonas aeruginosa bone infection in injection drug users. Lengthy parenteral antimicrobial therapy is the mainstay of treatment. An antistaphylococcal agent with methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) coverage (vancomycin) and a β-lactam with antipseudomonal coverage (cefepime) is an appropriate empiric regimen for suspected osteomyelitis in this patient who uses injection drugs.
Cefazolin does not provide coverage for MRSA, and aminoglycosides, such as gentamicin, have poor penetration into bone.
Vancomycin alone would not provide coverage for gram-negative organisms, which should be included in the empiric therapy for this patient.
Although microbiologic confirmation of the bacterial cause should always be sought, withholding antibiotics in a patient likely to have sepsis (fever, hypotension, tachycardia) is not appropriate. If the patient has positive blood cultures, a presumptive microbiologic diagnosis of vertebral osteomyelitis can usually be made. However, because injection drug users have frequent bacteremia and the patient's bloodstream infection may be unrelated to the vertebral osteomyelitis, some experts would recommend pursuing bone biopsy, even in patients with positive blood cultures.

**Bibliography**

Berbari EF, Kanj SS, Kowalski TJ, Darouiche RO, Widmer AF, Schmitt SK, et al. 2015 Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) clinical practice guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of native vertebral osteomyelitis in adults. Clin Infect Dis. 2015;61:e26-46. PMID: 26229122 doi:10.1093/cid/civ482

This content was last updated in August 2018.