
### Correct Answer: A) Acute HIV infection 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose acute HIV infection.

#### **Key Point:** On testing for HIV infection, a positive result on HIV-1/2 antigen/antibody combination immunoassay is followed by testing with the HIV-1/HIV-2 antibody differentiation immunoassay; a negative antibody differentiation immunoassay but a positive follow-up HIV-1 nucleic acid amplification test is diagnostic of acute HIV infection.

This patient has acute HIV infection. His recent nonspecific viral symptoms are consistent with the acute retroviral syndrome, although they are not diagnostic. Regardless of the presence or absence of symptoms, his HIV testing results support a diagnosis of acute HIV infection. His initial HIV-1/2 antigen/antibody combination immunoassay is reactive, indicating further testing is needed. The HIV-1/HIV-2 antibody differentiation assay is negative, indicating the absence of antibody to HIV; however, the RNA assay is positive for HIV-1 RNA. This finding indicates the patient does not have antibodies to HIV but does demonstrate the presence of virus by nucleic acid amplification testing. The initial combination immunoassay was reactive because of the presence of HIV p24 antigen rather than antibody, which indicates acute infection with HIV before antibody development. The ability to detect acute infection is a key advantage of and improvement in current HIV testing, allowing for earlier detection of infection, faster initiation of treatment, and, consequently, reduced risk of transmission.
In chronic HIV infection, the HIV antibody differentiation immunoassay would have demonstrated antibody to HIV, either HIV-1 (usually) or HIV-2 (rarely). Because no antibody was detected but HIV RNA is present, infection is still in the acute phase before antibody development.
Because the HIV-1 RNA assay was positive at a significant level, the initial HIV antigen/antibody immunoassay result was not a false positive. Although false-positive HIV RNA testing can occur, it is usually at a very low, barely detectable level. This patient's level is substantial, and he has known risk factors and consistent symptoms for acute HIV infection, increasing his pretest probability and making a positive result much more likely a true positive.
HIV-2 infection is rare in the United States. It is ruled out in this patient by the negative HIV-2 antibody result on the HIV-1/HIV-2 antibody differentiation assay.

**Bibliography**

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Association of Public Health Laboratories. Laboratory testing for the diagnosis of HIV infection: updated recommendations. Available at http://dx.doi.org/10.15620/cdc.23447. Published June 27, 2014. Accessed November 2, 2017.

This content was last updated in August 2018.