
### Correct Answer: A) Ceftriaxone plus azithromycin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat urethritis with empiric therapy.

#### **Key Point:** In a patient with clinical signs and symptoms of urethritis, treatment with ceftriaxone and azithromycin provides appropriate empiric therapy without waiting for microbiologic testing results.

The most appropriate treatment is ceftriaxone plus azithromycin. The patient has dysuria and evidence of mucopurulent urethral discharge, which are consistent with urethritis. Because he is being evaluated in an urgent care setting and may not return for follow-up, empiric therapy is appropriate. A single intramuscular dose of ceftriaxone (250 mg) plus a single oral dose of azithromycin (1 g) will treat Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis, the most common causes of urethritis. Diagnostic testing results are still important in case the patient does not respond to empiric therapy and for disease reporting and contact tracing. This man should also be offered HIV and syphilis testing and undergo counseling regarding the use of condoms for all sexual encounters, including oral sex. Some concern exists that sexually active persons, particularly young persons, may believe that oral sex is “safe” and does not pose a risk of sexually transmitted infection (STI) transmission. Most STIs can be acquired through oral sex; the risk of acquiring HIV infection may be lower, but precise data on the relative risk of STI acquisition from specific types of sexual activity are not available.
Doxycycline for 7 days is an alternate therapy for C. trachomatis; however, it should be used only when a macrolide allergy precludes the use of azithromycin. It also will not reliably treat N. gonorrhoeae.
Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is not an effective treatment for urethritis. Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole can potentially be used for empiric therapy for cystitis; however, men with cystitis should not have purulent urethral discharge. Additionally, symptoms of bladder irritation, including increased frequency and urgency, are generally present.
Herpes simplex virus can present as urethritis, and penile ulcers may not be present on physical examination; however, this clinical presentation is less common and should only be considered if the infection fails to respond to treatment for the more common causes of urethritis. Therefore, valacyclovir is not the most appropriate initial empiric therapy for this patient.

**Bibliography**

Workowski KA, Bolan GA; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually transmitted diseases treatment guidelines, 2015. MMWR Recomm Rep. 2015;64:1-137. PMID: 26042815

This content was last updated in October 2021.