
### Correct Answer: C) Posaconazole 

**Educational Objective:** Prevent opportunistic fungal infections after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

#### **Key Point:** In patients who have undergone hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, the risk of invasive fungal infection remains elevated for the first few months, even after recovery of neutrophil counts, so antifungal prophylaxis should be continued during this time.

Posaconazole is the most appropriate prophylactic therapy for this patient after hospital discharge. Patients who undergo allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) usually experience a period of prolonged neutropenia after the pretransplant myeloablative conditioning regimen. This prolonged, severe neutropenia is a significant risk factor for invasive bacterial and fungal infections, and prophylaxis for both is indicated. The risk of invasive fungal infection remains elevated, however, even after recovery of neutrophils for the first few months after allogeneic HSCT and even later in the setting of graft-versus-host disease. Therefore, although this patient is doing well and her neutrophil count has recovered, antifungal prophylaxis should be provided in addition to continuing trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole therapy. Posaconazole provides activity against Candida and Aspergillus and other moulds that are the cause of an increasing proportion of invasive fungal infections after HSCT.
Acyclovir is used to reduce reactivation of herpes simplex virus during periods of neutropenia, but its administration is no longer needed. Additionally, this patient is seropositive for varicella-zoster virus because of immunization, so varicella-zoster prophylaxis is unnecessary. Finally, acyclovir has no role in preventing reactivation of Epstein-Barr virus or cytomegalovirus, two other infections for which this patient is at risk.
Ciprofloxacin is a preferred agent for antibacterial prophylaxis during neutropenia because it has activity against most of the gram-negative bacteria of greatest concern. But with resolution of neutropenia and completion of therapy for known infection, continued antibacterial therapy should be avoided to lessen toxicities and complications such as Clostridium difficile colitis.
Valganciclovir is used to prevent or treat cytomegalovirus infection. This patient is at risk for reactivation cytomegalovirus because of her positive serology. However, because of the leukopenia that is a common toxicity of valganciclovir, a strategy of monitoring for cytomegalovirus and starting pre-emptive therapy only when indicated is preferred over prophylaxis after HSCT.

**Bibliography**

Ullmann AJ, Schmidt-Hieber M, Bertz H, Heinz WJ, Kiehl M, Krüger W, et al; Infectious Diseases Working Party of the German Society for Hematology and Medical Oncology (AGIHO/DGHO) and the DAG-KBT (German Working Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation). Infectious diseases in allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation: prevention and prophylaxis strategy guidelines 2016. Ann Hematol. 2016;95:1435-55. PMID: 27339055 doi:10.1007/s00277-016-2711-1

This content was last updated in August 2018.