
### Correct Answer: C) Rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, ethambutol, and dexamethasone 

**Educational Objective:** Treat suspected tuberculous meningitis.

#### **Key Point:** Tuberculosis and cryptococcus are the most common causes of chronic meningitis; empiric treatment for tuberculous meningitis includes four-drug antituberculous therapy (rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol) plus dexamethasone.

The most appropriate management for this patient is four-drug antituberculous therapy (rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol) plus dexamethasone. Meningitis can be defined as either acute or chronic. The symptoms of acute meningitis typically progress over hours, sometimes days, whereas chronic meningitis generally progresses over 4 or more weeks. Tuberculosis and fungal infection are the most common causes of chronic meningitis. Tuberculous meningitis should be suspected in patients from highly endemic countries who have basilar lymphocytic meningitis associated with cranial neuropathies (particularly involving cranial nerve VI) and hypoglycorrhachia. A history of tuberculosis exposure, an abnormal chest radiograph, a positive tuberculin skin test, and a positive interferon-γ release assay may be clues to the diagnosis, but these can be absent. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) acid-fast bacilli stains and cultures are insensitive and may take up to 6 weeks to grow. Patients with a high suspicion for tuberculosis should be treated empirically with rifampin, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol pending culture results and clinical improvement. Adjunctive dexamethasone decreases mortality, especially in patients with normal mental status and no neurologic deficits; it should be started concomitantly with antituberculous therapy.
The most common fungal meningitis in the United States is cryptococcal meningitis. Cryptococcus is inhaled and causes an initial pulmonary infection. Risk factors for dissemination include AIDS, organ transplantation, glucocorticoid treatment, diabetes mellitus, liver dysfunction, and kidney injury. The central nervous system is the most common site of disseminated cryptococcosis. CSF analysis may resemble that of tuberculous meningitis, although monocytes may predominate and the opening pressure is often greater than 200 mm H2O. An India ink preparation of the CSF will demonstrate cryptococcal organisms in up to 80% of patients with a high organism burden, such as patients with HIV infection, but is only 50% sensitive in patients without HIV. The CSF assay for cryptococcal antigen is highly sensitive and specific for the diagnosis of meningitis and can be obtained soon after lumbar puncture results are available. Recommended induction therapy for cryptococcal meningitis includes amphotericin B and 5-fluorocytosine but is not indicated in this patient who is at low risk for this infection.
Bacterial meningitis is an acute infection with progression of symptoms over hours to days. This patient has chronic lymphocytic meningitis with an extremely low CSF glucose level and a negative CSF Gram stain, making bacterial meningitis unlikely. Initiating vancomycin, ceftriaxone, and dexamethasone is not the most appropriate management.

**Bibliography**

Prasad K, Singh MB, Ryan H. Corticosteroids for managing tuberculous meningitis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016;4:CD002244. PMID: 27121755 doi:10.1002/14651858.CD002244.pub4

This content was last updated in August 2018.