
### Correct Answer: B) Isoniazid daily for 9 months 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with latent tuberculosis infection.

#### **Key Point:** Prophylactic treatment with isoniazid is a recommended alternative treatment option for persons with latent tuberculosis infection, determined by a newly positive tuberculosis screening test but no signs or symptoms of active disease; 9 months of daily isoniazid can be self-administered.

The most appropriate management for this patient is to initiate self-administered treatment with isoniazid. He has traveled to a high-risk area for Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Before departing for Vietnam, he had a negative tuberculin skin test; however, he returned with a positive screening result for tuberculosis. Because the chest radiograph is negative, he requires treatment for latent tuberculosis rather than treatment with the four-drug regimen for active tuberculosis. Several treatment options exist, and the regimen chosen should be based on comorbidities, knowledge of the drug-susceptibility data from the source patient, and possible drug interactions. Self-administered isoniazid for 6 or 9 months is approved as an alternative for the treatment of latent tuberculosis by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for patients with and without HIV infection. In patients being treated for latent tuberculosis who have normal baseline aminotransferase levels and no risk factors for liver disease, routine testing of aminotransferase levels during treatment is unnecessary. In 2020, the CDC recommended three preferred treatment regimens for latent tuberculosis: 3 months of isoniazid plus rifapentine, given once weekly; 4 months of rifampin, given daily; and 3 months of isoniazid plus rifampin, given daily. These regimens are preferred because of their effectiveness, safety, and high treatment completion rates. Isoniazid given daily for 6 or 9 months is now considered an alternative therapy for patients unable to take a preferred regimen.
Once-weekly isoniazid and rifapentine only needs to be administered for 12 weeks, not 24 weeks. The 12-week regimen can be used instead of 9 months of isoniazid alone for healthy adult patients, including those with HIV coinfection who are not taking antiretroviral agents. It is not recommended for patients suspected of having rifampin- or isoniazid-resistant tuberculosis strains or for patients who are pregnant or plan to become pregnant while taking these agents.
Treatment of active tuberculosis usually consists of multiple drugs for 6 to 9 months administered in two phases: initial and continuation. The core first-line antituberculous agents are isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol. These agents are administered for 8 weeks as part of the initiation phase. Isoniazid and rifampin are then continued for 4 or 7 months as part of the continuation phase. This patient does not have active tuberculosis (absent symptoms and a normal chest radiograph) and does not require therapy with four antituberculosis drugs.
This patient has latent tuberculosis infection, as detected by the positive interferon-γ release assay. Providing no treatment would put him at risk of developing active disease or exposing close contacts who may then become ill.

**Bibliography**

Sterling TR, Njie G, Zenner D, et al. Guidelines for the Treatment of Latent Tuberculosis Infection: Recommendations from the National Tuberculosis Controllers Association and CDC, 2020. MMWR Recomm Rep. 2020;69(1):1–11. Published 2020 Feb 14. PMID: 32053584 doi:10.15585/mmwr.rr6901a1

This content was last updated in October 2020.