
### Correct Answer: B) Bronchoscopy with biopsy and bronchoalveolar lavage 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose invasive aspergillosis.

#### **Key Point:** Risk factors for invasive or disseminated aspergillosis include profound and prolonged neutropenia and stem cell and solid organ transplantation; patients have fever, cough, chest pain, and hemoptysis at presentation, and pulmonary infiltrates, nodules, or wedge-shaped densities may be seen on chest radiographs.

This patient most likely has disseminated aspergillosis with lung and brain involvement. Aspergillus invades blood vessels and causes distal infarction of infected tissue. Patients with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis may have fever, cough, chest pain, and hemoptysis at presentation. Pulmonary infiltrates, nodules, or wedge-shaped densities resembling infarcts may also be seen on chest radiographs; CT scans may show a target lesion with a necrotic center surrounded by a ring of hemorrhage (halo sign). Central nervous system involvement may manifest as a brain abscess or infarction. Other sites of involvement include blood vessels in the heart, gastrointestinal tract, or skin. Risk factors for invasive or disseminated aspergillosis include profound and prolonged neutropenia and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. The second most common risk group for invasive aspergillosis is solid organ (heart, lung, liver, kidney) transplant recipients. The infection has also increasingly been reported in patients who are critically ill and in ICUs, especially those with exposure to glucocorticoids. The most efficient way to establish a definitive diagnosis (and then initiate antifungal therapy) is with bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and biopsy. In patients with disseminated aspergillosis, the serum galactomannan assay has a sensitivity of less than 30% and is not very useful; in contrast, the BAL galactomannan assay has a much higher sensitivity and specificity. Therefore, BAL fluid samples should be collected for analysis, and tissue biopsy should be performed.
A brain biopsy is sometimes useful to establish a definitive diagnosis but carries a much greater risk of causing adverse effects than bronchoscopy and BAL. If the lung biopsy is negative, then a brain biopsy should be considered.
Fungal blood cultures have a low sensitivity in all invasive mold infections but especially in invasive aspergillosis, in which less than 1% of patients with infection have a positive culture.

**Bibliography**

Cadena J, Thompson GR 3rd, Patterson TF. Invasive aspergillosis: current strategies for diagnosis and management. Infect Dis Clin North Am. 2016;30:125-42. PMID: 26897064 doi:10.1016/j.idc.2015.10.015

This content was last updated in March 2020.