
### Correct Answer: A) Clostridium difficile colitis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Clostridium difficile colitis after transplantation.

#### **Key Point:** The first month after solid organ transplantation is when the most likely infections are nosocomial and similar to those in patients who have had other surgeries; patients who have recently completed antimicrobial treatment are particularly at increased risk for Clostridium difficile colitis.

The most likely diagnosis is colitis caused by Clostridium difficile. C. difficile infection is the most common cause of health care–associated colitis, and antibiotic use is the most significant risk factor. The patient presents within the first month after solid organ transplantation; this is a time when the most likely infections are nosocomial and similar to those in patients who have had other surgeries. This patient has recently completed antimicrobial treatment for pneumonia and wound infection, increasing his risk for C. difficile colitis, which is common in transplant recipients during this time frame. Testing for C. difficile colitis and providing treatment would be appropriate at this time. Polymerase chain reaction assays to detect the genes responsible for production of toxins A and B are very sensitive and are increasingly used in the diagnosis of C. difficile colitis.
The other concern of most significance in this patient would be cytomegalovirus infection, most likely manifesting as colitis in this scenario. Being a cytomegalovirus-seronegative recipient of an organ from a cytomegalovirus-seropositive donor puts the patient at significant risk for developing cytomegalovirus disease, most commonly in the gastrointestinal tract or as a nonspecific febrile illness. However, because of this risk, he is already receiving prophylaxis with valganciclovir, which significantly lowers the rate of occurrence. His presentation being so early after transplantation also makes cytomegalovirus less likely, because infection most often occurs in the “middle” period, 1 to 6 months after transplantation.
Mycophenolate toxicities include diarrhea, cytopenias, and infection. Although diarrhea is a common adverse effect of mycophenolate, the additional presence of fever and abdominal pain makes this an unlikely cause. C. difficile infection must be considered first and ruled out.
Polyoma BK virus causes a nephropathy after transplantation, not diarrhea, and usually occurs later than the first month after transplantation. Definitive diagnosis requires kidney biopsy. When polyoma BK nephropathy occurs, immunosuppression should be reduced to the minimum level necessary to avoid rejection.

**Bibliography**

Fishman JA. From the classic concepts to modern practice. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2014;20 Suppl 7:4-9. PMID: 24528498 doi:10.1111/1469-0691.12593

This content was last updated in August 2018.