
### Correct Answer: C) Ceftriaxone plus azithromycin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat Neisseria gonorrhoeae infection.

#### **Key Point:** Because of increasing minimum inhibitory concentrations to ceftriaxone among Neisseria gonorrhoeae isolates in the United States, this agent should be combined with a single dose of azithromycin.

The most appropriate treatment is ceftriaxone plus azithromycin. This sexually active young woman presented for an annual Pap smear and renewal of oral contraceptives. She was appropriately screened for Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae infection using nucleic acid amplification testing. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends this screening for all sexually active women younger than 25 years. If the patient were older than 25 years, she should be tested because of her new sexual partner. Her screening results are positive for N. gonorrhoeae. Even without symptoms or findings on pelvic examination, she should be treated; a significant number of persons with N. gonorrhoeae infection are asymptomatic without evidence of cervicitis. Intramuscular ceftriaxone (250 mg) is the preferred therapy for treatment of N. gonorrhoeae infection, along with a single dose of oral azithromycin (1 g). Although this regimen is given empirically when C. trachomatis and N. gonorrhoeae coinfection is suspected (for example, empiric therapy for cervicitis), because of increasing minimum inhibitory concentrations (MIC) to ceftriaxone among N. gonorrhoeae isolates in the United States, azithromycin is used even when C. trachomatis infection is not present; this combination will increase the success of treatment of the N. gonorrhoeae infection.
Oral cefixime does not achieve adequate levels to exceed the MIC of many N. gonorrhoeae isolates, so this option should only be used if ceftriaxone is unavailable. In this circumstance, a single dose of oral azithromycin should be administered with the cefixime.
Ciprofloxacin was previously recommended for the treatment of N. gonorrhoeae infections; however, the prevalence of fluoroquinolone resistance among N. gonorrhoeae isolates has increased, and this antibiotic is no longer recommended.

**Bibliography**

Workowski KA, Bolan GA; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually transmitted diseases treatment guidelines, 2015. MMWR Recomm Rep. 2015;64:1-137. PMID: 26042815

This content was last updated in March 2021.