
### Correct Answer: C) Intraerythrocytic tetrad forms 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose babesiosis.

#### **Key Point:** Babesiosis can be diagnosed by visualization of intraerythrocytic parasites in a ring or tetrad form on a blood smear.

This patient's blood smear is most likely to show intraerythrocytic tetrad forms. He has a life-threatening illness characterized by fever and hemolysis and has no spleen. Given his residence in the northeastern United States and his outdoor vocation, severe babesiosis is likely. Babesia species are transmitted by the same tick that causes Lyme disease; infection also can be acquired through transfusion of infected erythrocytes outside of the endemic region. Asplenia is a major risk factor for fulminant Babesia infection, as is older age, HIV infection, or other immunocompromising conditions. Clinical manifestations are variable, with most relating to severe hemolytic anemia. Infection can be diagnosed by visualization of intraerythrocytic parasites, which appear as either ring forms or tetrads, with the latter often described as having the Maltese cross appearance shown. Complications, including acute respiratory distress syndrome, disseminated intravascular coagulation, heart failure, kidney failure, and coma, are associated with severe anemia (hematocrit level <30%) and parasitemia (exceeding 10%) and are indications for exchange transfusion.
Morulae, basophilic inclusion bodies composed of clusters of bacteria, can be seen in the cytoplasm of monocytes and neutrophils of patients with ehrlichiosis and anaplasmacytosis, respectively. These tick-borne infections cause fever, leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia but are not associated with hemolytic anemia.
Both malaria and babesiosis cause a hemolytic anemia and may present with ring-shaped parasitic inclusions inside erythrocytes. However, banana-shaped gametocytes are seen only with Plasmodium falciparum malaria, and the absence of a compatible travel history excludes this diagnosis.
Asplenic patients are at risk for overwhelming pneumococcal sepsis with a high bacterial burden; gram-positive diplococci may be visualized inside neutrophils on buffy-coat stain. Although leukopenia and thrombocytopenia are common with fulminant infection, hemolytic anemia is not a feature of pneumococcal sepsis.
Schistocytes are a manifestation of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia caused by a thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA), such as hemolytic uremic syndrome or thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura. Although both these syndromes can cause fever, hemolysis, and thrombocytopenia, the absence of acute kidney injury in this patient excludes a TMA.

**Bibliography**

Akel T, Mobarakai N. Hematologic manifestations of babesiosis. Ann Clin Microbiol Antimicrob. 2017;16:6. PMID: 28202022 doi:10.1186/s12941-017-0179-z

This content was last updated in August 2018.