
### Correct Answer: D) Switch piperacillin-tazobactam to oral ciprofloxacin and metronidazole 

**Educational Objective:** Manage conversion of intravenous antimicrobial therapy to oral antimicrobial therapy.

#### **Key Point:** Intravenous-to-oral antibiotic switching should be considered in patients who have an intact and functioning gastrointestinal tract, whose clinical status is improving, and who are not being treated for an infection for which parenteral therapy is preferred.

This patient's therapy should be switched from intravenous piperacillin-tazobactam to oral ciprofloxacin and metronidazole. He has a diabetic foot ulcer and osteomyelitis of the left great toe caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Bacteroides fragilis. Ciprofloxacin and metronidazole have excellent bioavailability and will penetrate bone adequately with oral administration. Continuing intravenous therapy offers no advantage for this patient, and intravenous therapy has risks that include developing a venous catheter–associated bloodstream infection. Intravenous-to-oral antibiotic switching should be considered in patients who have an intact and functioning gastrointestinal tract, whose clinical status is improving, and who are not being treated for an infection for which parenteral therapy is preferred (for example, endocarditis or meningitis). Common infectious scenarios for which a switch from intravenous to oral therapy should be considered include community-acquired pneumonia, bacterial peritonitis, pyelonephritis, septic arthritis, and skin and soft tissue infections. When switching from a parenteral to an oral antibiotic agent, the bioavailability of the oral antibiotics must be considered.
A second antipseudomonal agent is not required for this patient's osteomyelitis. He also has kidney disease, which should discourage use of an aminoglycoside. Therefore, adding tobramycin while continuing intravenous antibiotic therapy would not be the best management for this patient who can de-escalate to oral therapy.
Although aztreonam and ceftazidime have good antipseudomonal activity, neither agent has any anaerobic activity to cover B. fragilis.

**Bibliography**

Cyriac JM, James E. Switch over from intravenous to oral therapy: A concise overview. J Pharmacol Pharmacother. 2014;5:83-7. PMID: 24799810 doi:10.4103/0976-500X.130042

This content was last updated in August 2018.