
### Correct Answer: A) Begin empiric therapy with an echinocandin 

**Educational Objective:** Manage candidemia with empiric antifungal therapy.

#### **Key Point:** A positive blood culture for Candida species should not be treated as a contaminant, and empiric therapy with an echinocandin should be instituted immediately.

This patient has candidemia. Candidemia occurs most frequently in the presence of an intravascular catheter and may lead to focal organ involvement or disseminated infection as a consequence of hematogenous spread. Risk factors for candidemia and other forms of systemic candidiasis include neutropenia, malignancies, organ transplantation, broad-spectrum antimicrobial agents, immunosuppressive agents, chemotherapeutic agents, intravascular catheters, hemodialysis, parenteral nutrition, and major abdominal surgery. Because systemic candidiasis has a high mortality rate, therapy should be initiated promptly when it is suspected or diagnosed. The finding of yeast in the blood culture is enough to initiate empiric antifungal therapy until the fungal identification is definitive. An echinocandin (anidulafungin, caspofungin, or micafungin) is recommended as empiric therapy for most patients with candidemia. If the Candida species is azole susceptible, the patient may be de-escalated to fluconazole to complete the 14-day course of therapy.
Fluconazole is not recommended as initial management for this patient. Several Candida species, such as C. glabrata, C. auris, and C. krusei, are known to be intrinsically resistant to azoles.
Systemic candidiasis is usually diagnosed by a positive culture from blood or a normally sterile body site. A positive blood culture should not be treated as a contaminant, and empiric therapy should be instituted immediately, particularly in seriously ill patients such as this one. Candida isolated from blood cultures should always prompt a search for the source.
Central venous catheters should be removed as soon as possible in patients with candidemia; however, removal of an implicated catheter is not sufficient treatment for candidemia. All patients must be treated with antifungal drugs.

**Bibliography**

Pappas PG, Kauffman CA, Andes DR, Clancy CJ, Marr KA, Ostrosky-Zeichner L, et al. Executive summary: clinical practice guideline for the management of candidiasis: 2016 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2016;62:409-17. PMID: 26810419 doi:10.1093/cid/civ1194

This content was last updated in August 2018.