
### Correct Answer: A) Continue cefazolin to complete 6 weeks of antibiotic therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Treat vertebral osteomyelitis.

#### **Key Point:** The recommended duration of antibacterial therapy for acute vertebral osteomyelitis is 6 weeks.

This patient has a confirmed diagnosis of methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus osteomyelitis and should complete a 6-week course of antibiotics. Although there are no randomized controlled trials regarding the optimal duration of antibiotic therapy for osteomyelitis, a treatment course of 2 weeks is inadequate. For this patient, vertebral osteomyelitis at a single level, not associated with epidural abscess or hardware, has a favorable prognosis; older age, comorbidities, and infection with S. aureus are unfavorable factors. However, there is no evidence that antibiotics beyond 6 weeks will enhance therapeutic success. In a recently published clinical trial comparing 6 weeks to 12 weeks of antibiotics for vertebral osteomyelitis, cure rates were not significantly different between the treatment groups. Several retrospective studies have found similar results.
Prolonged courses of antibiotics place the patient at risk for adverse events, including drug-resistant pathogens and Clostridium difficile–associated diarrhea.
Cefazolin should not be discontinued now because the patient has only completed 2 weeks of treatment, and 6 weeks is considered the therapeutic minimum.
Monitoring of inflammatory markers during treatment can assist in assessing the success of therapy. Routine follow-up MRI is not recommended in patients who respond clinically. Follow-up MRI may suggest progressive infection and lead to unnecessary additional intervention. Follow-up MRI is indicated with clinical deterioration or if a concomitant epidural or paraspinal abscess was present that was managed medically.

**Bibliography**

Berbari EF, Kanj SS, Kowalski TJ, Darouiche RO, Widmer AF, Schmitt SK, et al. 2015 Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) clinical practice guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of native vertebral osteomyelitis in adults. Clin Infect Dis. 2015;61:e26-46. PMID: 26229122 doi:10.1093/cid/civ482

This content was last updated in August 2018.