
### Correct Answer: D) Oral vancomycin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat severe Clostridium difficile infection.

#### **Key Point:** Oral vancomycin (or fidaxomicin) therapy is recommended for the treatment of an initial episode of severe Clostridium difficile infection.

This patient has severe Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) and should receive oral vancomycin therapy. All patients with confirmed CDI require antimicrobial treatment, but optimal management depends on whether the episode represents the initial presentation or a recurrence, as well as the severity of the illness. The American College of Gastroenterology defines severe disease by the presence of hypoalbuminemia (<3 g/dL [30 g/L]) plus leukocytosis (leukocyte count ≥15,000/µL [15 × 109/L]) or abdominal tenderness. The Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America and the Infectious Diseases Society of America guidelines define severe disease by a serum creatinine level >1.5 mg/dL (133 µmol/L) or leukocyte count ≥15,000/µL (15 × 109/L). Oral vancomycin for 10 days is recommended for the initial episode of a severe CDI infection. Oral fidaxomicin may also be used.
Fecal microbiota transplantation has been advocated as a treatment approach for patients with multiple relapses of CDI. The rationale is that exogenous feces will restore the normal colonic microbiota. Fecal microbiota transplantation is not recommended for an initial episode of CDI.
Intravenous vancomycin is not recommended for treatment of CDI because vancomycin delivered intravenously is not excreted into the large intestine and has no effect on CDI.
Oral metronidazole for 10 days can be used for patients who have an initial episode of nonsevere CDI when neither oral vancomycin nor fidaxomicin is available, but not in this patient with severe disease.
Oral vancomycin plus intravenous metronidazole is recommended for an initial episode of severe infection complicated (that is, fulminant disease) by ileus, hypotension, shock, or toxic megacolon. Fulminant CDI is often associated with ileus-limiting colonic transit of orally dosed medications; therefore, a vancomycin enema through a rectal tube should be considered to maximize colonic luminal concentrations.

**Bibliography**

McDonald LC, Gerding DN, Johnson S, Bakken JS, Carroll KC, Coffin SE, et al. Clinical practice guidelines for Clostridium difficile infection in adults and children: 2017 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) and Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America (SHEA). Clin Infect Dis. 2018;66:987-994. PMID: 29562266 doi:10.1093/cid/ciy149

This content was last updated in August 2018.