
### Correct Answer: C) Neisseria meningitides group B 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose serogroup B Neisseria meningitides in a patient who received the quadrivalent meningococcal vaccine.

#### **Key Point:** The quadrivalent meningococcal vaccine does not include coverage for serogroup B Neisseria meningitides, which now accounts for 40% of all meningitis infections in the United States.

Neisseria meningitides serogroup B is the most likely cause of this patient's meningitis. Bacterial meningitis classically presents with fever, nuchal rigidity, and altered mental status. However, all three symptoms may not be present in many patients with confirmed disease. Other clinical manifestations that suggest bacterial meningitis include photophobia and headache. Serogroup B N. meningitides accounts for 40% of all bacterial meningitis infections in the United States because the quadrivalent conjugate vaccine (ACYW-135) does not include group B. College students are at higher risk for developing meningococcal meningitis because of risk factors such as living in dormitories, sharing drinks, and kissing multiple partners. Clinical findings that support the diagnosis of meningococcal meningitis include severe myalgia, rapid progression, hemodynamic instability, and early appearance of a petechial or hemorrhagic rash in a previously well person. Finally, the finding of gram-negative diplococci on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination strongly supports the diagnosis.
Prevalence of Haemophilus influenzae meningitis has decreased in the pediatric age group since the advent of the type B conjugate vaccine, and it is an uncommon cause of meningitis in adults. Adult patients with functional or anatomic asplenia are at greatest risk. Gram stain of the CSF would show small pleomorphic gram-negative coccobacilli, which is not consistent with this patient's findings.
Listeria monocytogenes is responsible for meningitis primarily in immunosuppressed patients with decreased cell-mediated immunity, owing to medications or medical conditions, as well as in the very old or very young. L. monocytogenes appears as gram-positive rods and coccobacilli, which are not consistent with this patient's findings. Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common bacterial cause of meningitis in adults of all ages followed by N. meningitidis. Since the introduction of the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in 2000, the rate of pneumococcal meningitis has decreased by about one third, and the greatest reduction is seen in children younger than 5 years. S. pneumoniae is a gram-positive diplococcus and is an unlikely cause of this patient's meningitis.

**Bibliography**

van de Beek D, Brouwer M, Hasbun R, Koedel U, Whitney CG, Wijdicks E. Community-acquired bacterial meningitis. Nat Rev Dis Primers. 2016;2:16074. PMID: 27808261 doi:10.1038/nrdp.2016.74

This content was last updated in August 2018.