
### Correct Answer: C) Ceftriaxone and doxycycline 

**Educational Objective:** Treat proctitis in a patient at risk for sexually transmitted infection.

#### **Key Point:** Ceftriaxone and doxycycline should be given empirically to patients with clinical evidence of proctitis who are at risk for sexually transmitted infections.

Ceftriaxone and doxycycline should be given empirically to patients with clinical evidence of proctitis who are at risk for sexually transmitted infections (STIs). The differential diagnosis of proctitis in this patient includes Chlamydia trachomatis (including the lymphogranuloma venereum serovars), Neisseria gonorrhoeae, syphilis, and herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection. In those who also have diarrhea (proctocolitis), Campylobacter, Shigella, and Entamoeba histolytica should be considered as well. In this patient with proctitis, diagnostic evaluation should include nucleic acid amplification testing (NAAT) of a rectal swab specimen for N. gonorrhoeae, C. trachomatis, and HSV-1 and HSV-2 (even if ulcers are not visible on external examination) as well as serologic testing for syphilis. If anoscopy is not available to further elucidate the most likely diagnosis, initial empiric therapy for N. gonorrhoeae and C. trachomatis should be prescribed pending diagnostic testing results. If the NAAT is positive for C. trachomatis, further testing for lymphogranuloma venereum should be performed, and consultation with an expert in STIs should be sought.
For initial empiric therapy of proctitis, azithromycin would not provide adequate coverage for the possibility of N. gonorrhoeae infection.
This patient could have inflammatory bowel disease; however, considering his high risk for STI and the acute nature of his symptoms, an STI is far more likely, and the use of a topical glucocorticoid preparation is not appropriate.
Although it may provide coverage for some of the enteric pathogens implicated in proctocolitis, ciprofloxacin cannot be used as part of empiric therapy for N. gonorrhoeae because of high rates of resistance.

**Bibliography**

Workowski KA, Bolan GA; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Sexually transmitted diseases treatment guidelines, 2015. MMWR Recomm Rep. 2015;64:1-137. PMID: 26042815

This content was last updated in August 2018.