
### Correct Answer: B) Ganciclovir 

**Educational Objective:** Treat pneumonia after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

#### **Key Point:** Cytomegalovirus disease after transplantation may manifest as a nonspecific febrile illness; may cause leukopenia and thrombocytopenia; or may cause organ-specific disease, most often pneumonitis, colitis, esophagitis, or hepatitis; ganciclovir therapy should be initiated empirically in patients who present with signs and symptoms of cytomegalovirus infection.

Ganciclovir for cytomegalovirus is the most appropriate empiric treatment in this patient at this time. The risk of cytomegalovirus reactivation is related to serologic status of the donor and recipient and is unlikely when donor and recipient are both negative. Cytomegalovirus disease after transplantation may manifest as a nonspecific febrile illness; may cause leukopenia and thrombocytopenia; or may cause organ-specific disease, most often pneumonitis, colitis, esophagitis, or hepatitis. This patient is at significant risk for cytomegalovirus infection and has a clinical presentation consistent with cytomegalovirus pneumonia, specifically her presenting symptoms and radiographic findings of diffuse bilateral lung involvement. Although it has been more than 6 months from her hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), her recent graft-versus-host disease increases infection risk. She is not receiving cytomegalovirus prophylaxis at this time; her acyclovir therapy is effective prophylaxis for herpes simplex virus and varicella-zoster virus but not for cytomegalovirus. Cytomegalovirus pneumonia after HSCT is associated with poor prognosis and significant mortality. Treatment with ganciclovir should be started while proceeding with the diagnostic evaluation, including nucleic acid amplification testing and bronchoscopy.
Atovaquone is an appropriate treatment for Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia. Although this patient is at risk for P. jirovecii and her presentation is consistent with it, she is taking trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, which is effective as prophylaxis, making this infection unlikely.
Liposomal amphotericin would provide broad-spectrum antifungal coverage in this patient who is at risk for fungal infection. However, her presentation and radiographic findings are not consistent with invasive fungal infection, which is more likely to demonstrate nodules on CT. Moreover, the toxicity of amphotericin would preclude its use empirically in this setting.

**Bibliography**

Ariza-Heredia EJ, Nesher L, Chemaly RF. Cytomegalovirus diseases after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation: a mini-review. Cancer Lett. 2014;342:1-8. PMID: 24041869 doi:10.1016/j.canlet.2013.09.004

This content was last updated in August 2018.