
### Correct Answer: C) Leptospirosis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose leptospiral meningitis.

#### **Key Point:** Leptospiral meningitis usually develops weeks after exposure, during the second phase of illness, and can present with uveitis, rash, conjunctival suffusion, sepsis, lymphadenopathy, kidney injury, and hepatosplenomegaly.

The most likely diagnosis is leptospirosis. She presents with a biphasic illness after freshwater exposure in an area highly endemic for leptospirosis. Infection occurs by direct exposure to urine or tissues of infected animals or indirectly through contaminated water or soil. Rodents and other small mammals are the most significant sources of human disease. Leptospiral meningitis usually develops weeks after exposure, in the second phase of the illness, but may merge with the first phase in severe disease and can present with uveitis, rash, conjunctival suffusion (conjunctival redness without exudate), sepsis, lymphadenopathy, kidney injury, and hepatosplenomegaly. Subconjunctival suffusion may be subtle but is a finding that rarely occurs in other infections. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) findings resemble enteroviral meningitis, but empiric treatment with doxycycline should be started pending confirmation.
Most persons who develop HIV infection experience an acute symptomatic illness, referred to as acute retroviral syndrome, within a few weeks of acquiring the infection. Symptoms are most often consistent with an infectious mononucleosis with fever, malaise, lymphadenopathy, rash, and pharyngitis. Some of these patients will develop meningitis or meningoencephalitis. Meningitis caused by acute HIV infection is typically self-limited and may be clinically indistinguishable from other viral meningitis syndromes, but jaundice, kidney injury, and subconjunctival suffusion are not seen with acute HIV infection.
Patients with herpes simplex meningitis have typical meningitis symptoms, such as fever, nuchal rigidity, headache, and photophobia. Jaundice, kidney injury, and subconjunctival suffusion are not characteristic of herpes simplex meningitis.
Treponema pallidum meningitis can occur in the secondary or tertiary phase of syphilis. Headache and meningismus are common; decreased visual acuity secondary to uveitis, vitreitis, retinitis, or optic neuropathy can be seen, as well as other cranial neuropathies. The CSF usually shows a lymphocytic pleocytosis with an elevated protein level. This patient's clinical course is not compatible with syphilitic meningitis.

**Bibliography**

Londeree WA. Leptospirosis: the microscopic danger in paradise. Hawaii J Med Public Health. 2014;73:21-3. PMID: 25478298

This content was last updated in August 2018.