
### Correct Answer: D) Continue vancomycin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia.

#### **Key Point:** When treating methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia, vancomycin should be used only if the minimum inhibitory concentration is 2 µg/mL or less.

The most appropriate management is to continue the vancomycin. Endocarditis and vertebral osteomyelitis are two important complications of Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia. Vancomycin is the preferred antimicrobial agent for treatment of bacteremia with methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA). An alternative to vancomycin should be considered if the organism is not susceptible or if no clinical or microbiologic (such as persistent bacteremia) response occurs despite adequate source control. Daptomycin is an acceptable alternative if the isolate is susceptible. S. aureus with a vancomycin minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of 2 µg/mL or less is considered susceptible; intermediate susceptibility is defined as an MIC of 4 to 8 µg/mL. Vancomycin should not be used in the treatment of MRSA bacteremia when the vancomycin MIC is greater than 2 µg/mL because clinical failures have been reported. At MICs close to 2 µg/mL, clinical response (that is, clearance of bacteremia and resolution of fever and leukocytosis) should guide whether to continue vancomycin or change to daptomycin. Source control and appropriate antibiotic therapy are important for improving clinical outcomes. When using vancomycin to treat serious MRSA infections such as bacteremia, drug level monitoring is necessary to ensure successful treatment. Monitoring by trough level with a target of 15 to 20 µg/mL has been shown to result in an increased risk of nephrotoxicity, so monitoring utilizing a calculated target 24-hour time-concentration area under the curve (AUC) to MIC (AUC/MIC) ratio of 400 to 600 mg*h/L is now recommended.
Adding rifampin or gentamicin to vancomycin has not been shown to improve outcomes of MRSA bacteremia and should be avoided. Combination therapy also increases the risk for adverse events (nephrotoxicity with gentamicin, hepatotoxicity and drug interactions with rifampin). Combination therapy is sometimes considered with prosthetic device infections, and an infectious diseases specialist should be consulted for guidance in such cases.

**Bibliography**

Choo EJ, Chambers HF. Treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia. Infect Chemother. 2016;48:267-273. PMID: 28032484 doi:10.3947/ic.2016.48.4.267

This content was last updated in March 2021.