
### Correct Answer: A) Clindamycin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with mild nonpurulent cellulitis.

#### **Key Point:** Nonpurulent cellulitis without systemic signs of infection is usually caused by streptococci, which can be treated with an oral agent such as clindamycin, penicillin, cephalexin, or dicloxacillin.

The most appropriate treatment for this patient is clindamycin. Treatment of skin and soft tissue infections is guided by categorizing the infection as purulent or nonpurulent and by grading the severity of the infection as mild, moderate, or severe. This patient has a nonpurulent cellulitis without systemic signs of infection (mild infection). Nonpurulent infections are typically caused by streptococci, and outpatient treatment with an oral agent active against streptococci, including clindamycin, penicillin, cephalexin, or dicloxacillin, is recommended.
After incision and drainage, trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole or doxycycline would be appropriate empiric therapy for moderate-severity (systemic signs of infection present) purulent skin infections (such as a furuncle or carbuncle) in which the usual cause is Staphylococcus aureus (including methicillin-resistant strains [MRSA]).
Because of the increased likelihood of MRSA contributing to infection, intravenous vancomycin would be appropriate to include for empiric treatment of severe purulent skin infections. Severe infections are those that do not improve with incision and drainage plus oral antibiotics or that have specific systemic signs of infection, including temperature greater than 38 °C (100.4 °F), heart rate greater than 90/min, respiration rate greater than 24/min, abnormal leukocyte count (>12,000/µL [12 × 109/L] or <4000/µL [4 × 109/L]), or infection in immunocompromised patients. Intravenous vancomycin is also appropriate for severe nonpurulent necrotizing skin infections (in addition to coverage of gram-negative bacilli and anaerobes). In select patients with cellulitis of moderate severity, vancomycin is recommended for coverage of streptococci and MRSA. These would include cellulitis in patients who are injection drug users, those with nasal MRSA colonization or extracutaneous MRSA infection, or those whose infection is associated with penetrating trauma.

**Bibliography**

Stevens DL, Bisno AL, Chambers HF, Dellinger EP, Goldstein EJ, Gorbach SL, et al; Infectious Diseases Society of America. Practice guidelines for the diagnosis and management of skin and soft tissue infections: 2014 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2014;59:e10-52. PMID: 24973422 doi:10.1093/cid/ciu444

This content was last updated in August 2018.