
### Correct Answer: C) Cefepime and ciprofloxacin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat community-acquired pneumonia caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with community-acquired pneumonia and risk factors for Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection, the use of dual therapy with antipseudomonal, antipneumococcal β-lactam, or an antipseudomonal carbapenem, and antipseudomonal quinolone agents is recommended for initial empiric therapy.

The most appropriate empiric treatment regimen for this patient is cefepime and ciprofloxacin. Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an uncommon cause of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP), reported in 1% to 8% of patients in various case series. However, it is important to recognize risk factors predisposing patients to this organism because standard treatment regimens for CAP require modification when Pseudomonas is suspected. Risk factors for Pseudomonas infection include structural lung disease (such as bronchiectasis, COPD, and cystic fibrosis) and frequent COPD exacerbations requiring repeated courses of antibiotics or glucocorticoids. This patient has bronchiectasis, glucocorticoid use, and the presence of gram-negative bacilli on sputum Gram stain as risk factors for Pseudomonas infection. Initial treatment with an appropriate antibiotic regimen has been shown to decrease mortality in patients with CAP caused by Pseudomonas. For this reason, the use of two agents with antipseudomonal activity is advocated for empiric therapy, with de-escalation when culture and sensitivity results become available. Even in patients with risk factors for Pseudomonas infection, it is important to continue treatment with a combination that is also active against Streptococcus pneumoniae and Legionella species until culture results are available. Recommended regimens include dual therapy with an antipseudomonal, antipneumococcal β-lactam (such as cefepime or piperacillin-tazobactam) or an antipseudomonal carbapenem (such as imipenem or meropenem) and an antipseudomonal quinolone (ciprofloxacin or levofloxacin). The combination of cefepime and ciprofloxacin meets these requirements.
Neither ceftriaxone nor ampicillin-sulbactam is active against Pseudomonas and should not be used when this organism is a concern. Although levofloxacin is effective against quinolone-susceptible Pseudomonas, administration of a single antipseudomonal agent is not recommended because of the high rates of antibiotic resistance.
The combination of aztreonam and ciprofloxacin provides double coverage against Pseudomonas; however, it is inactive against S. pneumoniae and therefore is inappropriate for initial empiric therapy.

**Bibliography**

Cillóniz C, Gabarrús A, Ferrer M, Puig de la Bellacasa J, Rinaudo M, Mensa J, et al. Community-acquired pneumonia due to multidrug- and non-multidrug-resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Chest. 2016;150:415-25. PMID: 27060725 doi:10.1016/j.chest.2016.03.042

This content was last updated in March 2020.