
### Correct Answer: C) Common variable immunodeficiency 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose common variable immunodeficiency.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with common variable immunodeficiency are at increased risk of recurrent respiratory tract infections with encapsulated organisms (Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae), and they may develop chronic diarrhea because of enteroviruses, norovirus, or Giardia.

This patient has common variable immunodeficiency (CVID). The history of recurrent sinopulmonary and gastrointestinal infections in a young patient should trigger an investigation for an underlying immunodeficiency. CVID refers to a heterogeneous group of disorders that are linked by the presence of low levels of IgG and IgA and an impaired ability to produce antibody to antigenic stimuli. Clinically, patients with CVID are at increased risk for recurrent respiratory tract infections with encapsulated organisms such as Streptococcus pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae as well as Mycoplasma pneumoniae. These patients may also develop chronic diarrhea because of enteroviruses, norovirus, or Giardia. Based on this patient's history of previous infection with several of these pathogens, further evaluation with quantitative immunoglobulin levels is warranted. Diagnosis of CVID is important; patients with CVID benefit from replacement therapy with exogenous immune globulin. In addition to recurrent infection, patients with CVID are at increased risk for autoimmune diseases, bronchiectasis, enteropathy, and lymphoma.
Patients with advanced HIV infection or AIDS have low levels of CD4 cells and are at risk for opportunistic infections typically controlled through cellular immunity. Mucocutaneous candidiasis infection is one of the most common manifestations of HIV infection. Cryptococcus infection typically manifests as subacute or chronic meningitis. Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia is a common complication in patients with HIV infection who have not received prophylaxis. Toxoplasma gondii can cause encephalitis. Tuberculosis and Mycobacterium avium complex infection are the most common mycobacterial infections in patients with AIDS. Cytomegalovirus usually manifests as retinitis, esophagitis or colitis, and polyradiculitis or encephalitis. The nature of this patient's infections and history dating back to childhood make advanced AIDS an unlikely diagnosis.
Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), which is usually diagnosed in childhood, is caused by a defect in neutrophil oxidation. A history of recurrent or unusually severe infections or infections with Aspergillus species, Staphylococcus aureus, Burkholderia cepacia complex, Serratia marcescens, or Nocardia species suggests the diagnosis. This patient's frequent episodes of sinusitis, bronchitis, otitis media, and giardiasis are not characteristic of CGD.
Myeloperoxidase is an intraleukocytic enzyme that plays a role in the destruction of fungal organisms. Complete deficiency of myeloperoxidase is rare, and most patients with this syndrome remain asymptomatic. This patient's recurrent episodes of infection since childhood are not compatible with myeloperoxidase deficiency.

**Bibliography**

Abbott JK, Gelfand EW. Common variable immunodeficiency: diagnosis, management, and treatment. Immunol Allergy Clin North Am. 2015;35:637-58. PMID: 26454311 doi:10.1016/j.iac.2015.07.009

This content was last updated in August 2018.