
### Correct Answer: C) Mycobacterium marinum 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose Mycobacterium marinum skin infection.

#### **Key Point:** Mycobacterium marinum is found worldwide in freshwater and saltwater aquatic environments, typically causing indolent skin or soft tissue infection and usually appearing as papules on extremities after contact and trauma from fish tanks, fish, or shellfish.

The most likely cause of this patient's infection is Mycobacterium marinum. M. marinum is found worldwide in freshwater and saltwater aquatic environments, including swimming pools. Skin infections have typically been reported after skin trauma and contact with fish tanks (“fish tank granuloma”), fish, or shellfish. Hobbies and occupations predisposing to infection include aquatic sports enthusiasts, fishermen, seafood workers, and owners of fish tanks. The incubation period is usually less than 1 month, and the clinical course is often insidious. Infection usually manifests initially as a violaceous or erythematous papule or nodule that may ulcerate at the site of inoculation. Lesions may be solitary or multiple; occasionally, a sporotrichoid distribution along the lymphatic vessels may develop. The upper extremities, including the hands, fingers, or elbows, are commonly involved. Diagnosis is often delayed and is established by isolation of the organism from culture of a biopsy, aspirate, or drainage specimen. Granulomas may be present and provide evidence of potential mycobacterial infection.
This patient's course of infection is indolent and inconsistent with the more acute presentations of Streptococcus pyogenes and Clostridium perfringens skin and soft tissue infections. Additionally, Gram stain of the intraoperative specimen would have revealed bacterial organisms, and infections secondary to these organisms would have responded to the antibiotics already administered.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 can cause a painful infection of the finger (herpetic whitlow), manifesting as grouped vesicles on an erythematous base. Infection occurs when the virus is inoculated through breaks in the skin. Even without treatment, these infections usually resolve within several weeks and would not be expected to persist for months in an immunocompetent patient.

**Bibliography**

Aubry A, Chosidow O, Caumes E, Robert J, Cambau E. Sixty-three cases of Mycobacterium marinum infection: clinical features, treatment, and antibiotic susceptibility of causative isolates. Arch Intern Med. 2002;162:1746-52. PMID: 12153378

This content was last updated in August 2018.