
### Correct Answer: C) Continue current therapy 

**Educational Objective:** Discontinue Pneumocystis pneumonia prophylaxis in HIV infection.

#### **Key Point:** Patients with HIV who are taking antiretroviral therapy and achieve CD4 cell counts greater than 200/µL for more than 3 months may safely discontinue prophylaxis for Pneumocystis jirovecii infection.

This patient should discontinue taking trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole regardless of whether it caused the reported rash the previous week, but she should continue her current antiretroviral regimen. The patient initially presented 6 months ago with Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia and was diagnosed with HIV and AIDS. Following successful treatment of the pneumonia and initiation of antiretroviral therapy, appropriate secondary prophylaxis was initiated with daily trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. She demonstrated an excellent response to antiretrovirals with achievement of undetectable viral load and rising CD4 cell count. Her CD4 cell count has now been higher than 200/µL for more than 3 months, meeting criteria for safe discontinuation of prophylaxis for Pneumocystis. Studies have shown that Pneumocystis prophylaxis, whether primary or secondary, can be safely discontinued in patients with this level of immune reconstitution.
Atovaquone would be an acceptable alternative to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for prophylaxis of Pneumocystis, but this patient no longer requires Pneumocystis prophylaxis with any agent.
Primaquine and clindamycin is an appropriate alternative regimen to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for treatment of Pneumocystis pneumonia but not for prophylaxis. However, this patient has no evidence of active pneumonia, so treatment is not indicated.
The patient has continued taking her previously prescribed antiretroviral regimen, and the rash resolved, so the rash was unlikely caused by these agents. With the excellent response to this regimen and no apparent adverse effects, the current regimen should be continued rather than switching regimens.

**Bibliography**

Panel on Opportunistic Infections in HIV-Infected Adults and Adolescents. Guidelines for the prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections in HIV-infected adults and adolescents: recommendations from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, and the HIV Medicine Association of the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Available at https://aidsinfo.nih.gov/guidelines/html/4/adult-and-adolescent-opportunistic-infection/0. Accessed April 12, 2018.

This content was last updated in August 2018.