
### Correct Answer: A) Continue antibiotic therapy for a total of 7 days 

**Educational Objective:** Treat ventilator-associated pneumonia for 7 days.

#### **Key Point:** Ventilator-associated pneumonia should be treated with a 7-day course of antibiotics; longer courses contribute to the emergence of antibiotic resistance, increase the risk for antibiotic-related adverse effects, and do not improve outcomes.

The recommended treatment duration for ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) is 7 days. VAP is defined as pneumonia developing 48 hours after endotracheal intubation. The most significant VAP risk factor is intubation and mechanical ventilation. Early onset (<5 days after hospitalization or intubation) generally results from antimicrobial-sensitive organisms (Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Staphylococcus aureus, and antibiotic-susceptible gram-negative bacteria); late onset (≥5 days after hospitalization or intubation) is more likely with multidrug-resistant organisms (MDROs), including Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Acinetobacter species, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Burkholderia cepacia, and methicillin-resistant S. aureus. The recommended therapy duration for VAP is 7 days. A longer antibiotic duration does not improve outcomes, leads to the emergence of antibiotic-resistant organisms, and can increase the risk for adverse effects from antibiotic exposure.
Sputum Gram stain and culture are unnecessary for influencing the timing to stop antibiotics; the implicated organism may remain (colonizing) after treatment has been completed and the patient has improved clinically. Persistence of the infecting organism is not an indication to continue antibiotic therapy.
Antibiotics should not be continued until extubation. The antibiotic therapy duration is the same for patients who are successfully extubated during treatment and patients who remain intubated after 7 days of antibiotic therapy as long as clinical improvement occurs. If the patient does not improve clinically (resolution of fever, decrease in oxygenation and suction requirements) or initially improves and then worsens during treatment, the patient should be evaluated to identify development of infectious complications (pleural effusion, empyema, superinfection, antibiotic resistance) or noninfectious complications.

**Bibliography**

Kalil AC, Metersky ML, Klompas M, Muscedere J, Sweeney DA, Palmer LB, et al. Management of adults with hospital-acquired and ventilator-associated pneumonia: 2016 clinical practice guidelines by the Infectious Diseases Society of America and the American Thoracic Society. Clin Infect Dis. 2016;63:e61-e111. PMID: 27418577 doi:10.1093/cid/ciw353

This content was last updated in August 2018.