
### Correct Answer: A) Anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor encephalitis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor encephalitis.

#### **Key Point:** When other causes of encephalitis have been ruled out in a patient presenting with associated changes in mood and behavior, anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor encephalitis should be suspected.

The most likely diagnosis is anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (anti-NMDAR) encephalitis. Anti-NMDAR encephalitis has emerged as an increasingly common cause of encephalitis.Anti-NMDAR encephalitis is associated with ovarian teratomas in more than 50% of patients with the disease because of antibody production to a tumor protein that cross-reacts with neuronal tissue. In patients without evidence of teratoma, an inciting antigenic stimulus is rarely identified. The diagnosis is suggested by the presence of choreoathetosis, psychiatric symptoms, seizures, and autonomic instability; detection of anti-NMDAR antibody in serum confirms it. Anti-NMDAR encephalitis should be suspected in young women presenting with encephalitis associated with changes in mood and behavior when initial evaluation for other causes, including herpes simplex virus infection, is negative. Anti-NMDAR encephalitis treatment can include tumor removal (if present), intravenous glucocorticoids, intravenous immune globulin, plasmapheresis, and rituximab.
The most common central nervous system manifestation of Lyme disease is lymphocytic meningitis that may be indistinguishable from viral meningitis with fever, headache, and meningismus. An inflammatory encephalomyelitis may very rarely be observed. Lyme meningitis usually occurs in the summer and fall; it is often associated with peripheral facial palsy and is not associated with altered mental status, psychiatric symptoms, choreoathetosis, or seizure as seen in this patient.
Tuberculous meningitis is a subacute febrile illness with a predilection for inflammatory changes at the base of the brain. After a 2- to 3-week prodromal period, patients often manifest meningismus and varying degrees of cranial nerve and long-tract signs. Tuberculosis is unlikely in this patient because of the lack of chronicity, normal glucose level in cerebrospinal fluid, absence of cranial nerve and long-track signs, and lack of evidence of basilar meningitis on MRI.
West Nile neuroinvasive disease may present with meningitis, encephalitis, or myelitis, either singly or as overlap syndromes in the endemic months between June and October. Limb weakness, which may be symmetric or involve a single extremity, is characteristic. A nonspecific viral exanthema may be found in less than 50% of patients. MRI may show focal lesions of the thalami, basal ganglia, and spinal cord in some patients.

**Bibliography**

Dalmau J, Graus F. Antibody-mediated encephalitis. N Engl J Med. 2018;378:840-851. PMID: 29490181 doi:10.1056/NEJMra1708712

This content was last updated in August 2018.