
### Correct Answer: D) Obtain sputum specimen for acid-fast bacilli stain and culture 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose active tuberculosis infection.

#### **Key Point:** The microbiologic diagnosis of tuberculosis should be verified by acid-fast bacilli staining of sputum samples and nucleic acid amplification testing before initiating antituberculous therapy.

The most appropriate management for this patient is to obtain a sputum specimen and perform acid-fast bacilli (AFB) staining and culture. The patient appears to have active pulmonary tuberculosis, based on an indolent course of cough, fever, fatigue, and weight loss and a posteroanterior chest radiograph showing bilateral upper lobe cavitary infiltrates and a left pleural effusion. Although it is essential to initiate antimicrobial therapy promptly, it is important to verify the microbiologic diagnosis of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection first by submitting three sputum specimens for AFB staining and culture. If the AFB stain is positive, nucleic acid amplification testing (NAAT) can be used to differentiate M. tuberculosis from other types of mycobacteria, allowing for early initiation of treatment. It is also important to perform susceptibility testing because the frequency of antimicrobial resistance (for isoniazid and rifampin) is increasing.
The tuberculin skin test (TST) and interferon-γ release assay (IGRA) are the initial diagnostic studies used to evaluate for tuberculosis infection. However, neither test can distinguish between latent and active tuberculosis. Latent tuberculosis infection is diagnosed when an asymptomatic patient has a positive TST or IGRA result without clinical evidence of active tuberculosis infection by history, physical examination, or chest imaging. Because this patient has active tuberculosis, treatment for latent tuberculosis with isoniazid plus pyridoxine would not be appropriate. This regimen should only be used in patients with latent tuberculosis.
For active tuberculosis infection, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends initiating four-drug therapy with isoniazid, rifampin, pyrazinamide, and ethambutol for 8 weeks. In susceptible isolates, isoniazid and rifampin should then be continued for 18 weeks. This treatment regimen is appropriate only after M. tuberculosis infection has been confirmed with positive stain and NAAT.
Piperacillin-tazobactam would be an appropriate antibiotic choice if pneumococcus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, or Pseudomonas aeruginosa were the likely pathogens. However, the presentation of an indolent infection, a positive IGRA, and evidence of fibrocavitary disease in the upper lobes is highly suspicious for pulmonary tuberculosis, not acute bacterial pneumonia.

**Bibliography**

Lewinsohn DM, Leonard MK, LoBue PA, Cohn DL, Daley CL, Desmond E, et al. Official American Thoracic Society/Infectious Diseases Society of America/Centers for Disease Control and Prevention clinical practice guidelines: diagnosis of tuberculosis in adults and children. Clin Infect Dis. 2017;64:111-115. PMID: 28052967 doi:10.1093/cid/ciw778

This content was last updated in August 2018.