
### Correct Answer: D) Oral vancomycin and intravenous metronidazole 

**Educational Objective:** Treat fulminant Clostridium difficile infection.

#### **Key Point:** Fulminant Clostridium difficile infections require oral vancomycin plus intravenous metronidazole; vancomycin enemas may also be added if ileus is present.

The most appropriate treatment is oral vancomycin plus intravenous metronidazole. Treatment of Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) should be stratified according to its severity. The Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America and the Infectious Diseases Society of America define severe CDI by a leukocyte count ≥15,000/µL (15 × 109/L) or a serum creatinine level >1.5 mg/dL (133 µmol/L). The American College of Gastroenterology defines severe CDI by the presence of hypoalbuminemia (<3 g/dL [30 g/L]) plus leukocytosis (≥15,000/µL [15 × 109/L]) or abdominal tenderness. Fulminant CDI is defined as severe infection complicated by ileus, hypotension, shock, or toxic megacolon.
Medical therapy for fulminant CDI includes oral vancomycin plus intravenous metronidazole; vancomycin enemas may also be added if ileus is present. Complications are treated on an individual basis, although the presence of toxic megacolon requires surgical consultation to determine if emergent colectomy is indicated.
Fecal microbiota transplant is effective for treatment of recurrent episodes of CDI, but it is not recommended for an initial episode of CDI, regardless of severity.
Oral metronidazole alone for 10 days can be used for patients who present with an initial episode of nonsevere CDI when oral vancomycin or fidaxomicin is not available.
Oral vancomycin alone for 10 days is recommended for treatment of an initial episode of nonsevere and severe CDI. Oral fidaxomicin can also be used.
Oral metronidazole does not add benefit when used in addition to oral vancomycin.

**Bibliography**

McDonald LC, Gerding DN, Johnson S, Bakken JS, Carroll KC, Coffin SE, et al. Clinical practice guidelines for Clostridium difficile infection in adults and children: 2017 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) and Society for Healthcare Epidemiology of America (SHEA). Clin Infect Dis. 2018;66:987-994. PMID: 29562266 doi:10.1093/cid/ciy149

This content was last updated in August 2018.