
### Correct Answer: D) Nontyphoidal Salmonella species 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose nontyphoidal Salmonella infection.

#### **Key Point:** Nontyphoidal Salmonella is commonly carried asymptomatically by reptiles and amphibians and transferred from the animals' feces to people; human symptoms include crampy abdominal pain, fever, nonbloody diarrhea, and vomiting.

The most likely diagnosis is nontyphoidal Salmonella infection. This patient's fever and nonbloody diarrhea are most likely caused by nontyphoidal Salmonella, with infection resulting from contact with a colonized snake. Nontyphoidal Salmonella infection usually results from ingesting fecally contaminated water or food of animal origin, including poultry, beef, eggs, and milk. Intestinally colonized reptiles and amphibians are asymptomatic and intermittently shed the organism in their feces, creating the potential for fecal-oral route transmission. Handling infected snakes, turtles, iguanas, frogs, or toads or anything in the enclosures in which they live can result in infection. Surfaces contaminated by feces may also serve as a source of infection. The incubation period is usually less than 3 days, and symptoms typically include crampy abdominal pain, diarrhea (not usually visibly bloody), fever, headache, nausea, and vomiting.
Infection with Chlamydia psittaci is typically acquired by inhaling the organism in feces from a pet bird. The incubation period is about 1 week and the clinical presentation usually consists of chills, dry cough, fever, headache, and myalgia. Diarrhea may be present but is much less common. Chest radiograph abnormalities are common.
Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae is a bacterium that infects animals such as fish, swine, and poultry. Human infection is usually occupationally acquired in butchers, fish handlers, and veterinarians. Localized cutaneous violaceous lesions of the fingers and hands are a classic finding, although more diffuse cutaneous infections, bacteremia, and even infective endocarditis can develop.
Mycobacterium marinum is a nontuberculous mycobacterium found worldwide in freshwater and saltwater aquatic environments. Skin infections result from skin trauma and contact with fish tanks (“fish tank granuloma”), fish, or shellfish. Persons predisposed to infection include aquatic sports enthusiasts, fish tank owners, fishermen, and seafood workers. The clinical course is often insidious, manifesting initially as a violaceous or erythematous papule or nodule at the site of inoculation, which may ulcerate. Lesions may be solitary or multiple; occasionally a sporotrichoid distribution along lymphatic vessels may develop. M. marinum does not cause diarrhea.

**Bibliography**

Mermin J, Hutwagner L, Vugia D, Shallow S, Daily P, Bender J, et al; Emerging Infections Program FoodNet Working Group. Reptiles, amphibians, and human Salmonella infection: a population-based, case-control study. Clin Infect Dis. 2004;38 Suppl 3:S253-61. PMID: 15095197

This content was last updated in August 2018.