
### Correct Answer: A) Perform abdominal CT 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate persistent Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia.

#### **Key Point:** Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia persisting more than 72 hours after the start of appropriate antimicrobial therapy suggests a complicated infection requiring additional evaluation; endocarditis, osteomyelitis, and intra-abdominal infections are important sites of metastatic infection.

An abdominal CT is the most appropriate next step in the evaluation and management of this patient. Bacteremia persisting more than 72 hours after the start of appropriate antimicrobial therapy suggests a complicated infection, requiring additional evaluation with a longer treatment course. Endocarditis and vertebral osteomyelitis are two important complications of Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia. Patients with abdominal pain or flank pain should undergo abdominal CT to evaluate for the presence of metastatic infection of the liver, spleen, or kidney; psoas abscess; or other intra-abdominal source. This patient has aortic valve endocarditis, persistent S. aureus bacteremia and fever, new right upper quadrant pain, and abnormal liver chemistry tests, which are concerning for development of liver abscess. Metastatic infections are not uncommon with S. aureus bacteremia and require a careful history and physical examination to identify where to look and what tests to perform next. New right upper quadrant pain with liver chemistry test abnormalities should prompt investigation with imaging studies such as CT, which can also evaluate the spleen, kidney, and pararenal structures that may be seeded during bacteremia. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) will also need to be performed because of this patient's fever and persistent bacteremia. Development of a perivalvular abscess is a possibility, especially if conduction abnormalities are present on the electrocardiogram. Compared with transthoracic echocardiography, perivalvular abscesses are better visualized with TEE.
Several neurologic complications can arise from S. aureus endocarditis, including brain abscess, stroke, and meningitis. Neurologic symptoms can be the presenting signs in S. aureus endocarditis (for example, a patient presenting with stroke who has a heart murmur and unexplained fever should be evaluated for endocarditis). New neurologic symptoms that develop during the course of treatment for endocarditis should always be evaluated (such as with head CT). This patient has no neurologic symptoms, so a head CT is not indicated.
Daptomycin is rarely used to treat methicillin-sensitive S. aureus (MSSA) infections except in patients with multiple antibiotic allergies that preclude the use of β-lactams or glycopeptides. Persistent bacteremia is likely a failure of source control and requires careful investigation for possible sources of metastatic infection and drainage if amenable.
Cefazolin is more rapidly bactericidal than vancomycin and is preferred over vancomycin for treatment of MSSA. Therefore, switching would be inappropriate.

**Bibliography**

Tong SY, Davis JS, Eichenberger E, Holland TL, Fowler VG Jr. Staphylococcus aureus infections: epidemiology, pathophysiology, clinical manifestations, and management. Clin Microbiol Rev. 2015;28:603-61. PMID: 26016486 doi:10.1128/CMR.00134-14

This content was last updated in September 2019.