
### Correct Answer: A) Ciprofloxacin plus doxycycline 

**Educational Objective:** Treat necrotizing skin infection caused by Aeromonas hydrophila.

#### **Key Point:** Lacerations and puncture wounds sustained in fresh and brackish water environments can result in necrotizing infection with Aeromonas hydrophila; this infection should be treated with surgery, supportive care, and antibiotics with gram-negative coverage, such as doxycycline plus ciprofloxacin.

The most appropriate treatment for this patient is ciprofloxacin plus doxycycline. This patient has Aeromonas hydrophila–associated skin and soft tissue infection. Aeromonas species are found in aquatic environments, including fresh water and brackish water, and grow best during warmer months. Lacerations and puncture wounds sustained in these environments can result in wound infection. Aeromonas infections of the skin and soft tissue and of the bloodstream are more likely to occur in patients with underlying immunocompromising conditions, such as cirrhosis and cancer, and are more common in men. Necrotizing fasciitis caused by this gram-negative bacillus requires surgery, supportive care, and antibiotics. Pending culture data, empiric therapy for necrotizing skin infections typically consists of broad-spectrum antibiotics such as vancomycin plus piperacillin-tazobactam. When the diagnosis of A. hydrophila infection is established, doxycycline plus ciprofloxacin or ceftriaxone is recommended.
The combination of linezolid and metronidazole, although effective against aerobic gram-positive organisms, such as staphylococci and enterococci as well as many anaerobes, is not active against Aeromonas.
Nafcillin and rifampin would be active against methicillin-susceptible S. aureus, particularly prosthetic joint infections, but is not active against A. hydrophila.
Vancomycin plus clindamycin would be effective in necrotizing fasciitis with associated toxic shock caused by methicillin-resistant S. aureus but would not be active against A. hydrophila.

**Bibliography**

Stevens DL, Bisno AL, Chambers HF, Dellinger EP, Goldstein EJ, Gorbach SL, et al. Practice guidelines for the diagnosis and management of skin and soft tissue infections: 2014 update by the infectious diseases society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2014;59:147-59. PMID: 24947530 doi:10.1093/cid/ciu296

This content was last updated in August 2018.