
### Correct Answer: D) Reassurance that the risk of Lyme disease is low 

**Educational Objective:** Manage a tick bite.

#### **Key Point:** In patients at high risk, doxycycline prophylaxis has been shown to decrease the risk of Lyme disease if started within 72 hours of tick removal, assuming that the tick has been attached for at least 36 hours.

The most appropriate initial management for this patient is reassurance that the risk of Lyme disease is low. In selected patients at high risk, doxycycline prophylaxis has been shown to decrease the risk of Lyme disease if given within 72 hours of tick removal, assuming that the tick has been attached for greater than 36 hours. Knowledge of the epidemiology of Lyme disease in the area of practice is important for making informed decisions about prophylaxis. Even in endemic regions, such as the northeastern and upper midwestern United States, few vector ticks are infected with Borrelia burgdorferi. Most patients in highly endemic areas do not develop symptomatic infection after a tick bite because bacterial transmission rarely occurs unless the vector tick has fed for at least 36 hours. In the subset of patients from highly endemic areas seen within 72 hours of tick removal in whom attachment with an Ixodes species tick for greater than 36 hours can be substantiated, a single dose of doxycycline (200 mg) has been shown to decrease the risk of developing infection. This patient was exposed to the tick that transmits Lyme disease. However, given the short duration of attachment, her risk for infection is negligible. Furthermore, she is beyond the 72-hour window during which prophylaxis has been shown to be beneficial. The most appropriate management is reassurance, with the caveat that she return for evaluation if she develops a rash, fever, or other suggestive symptoms within a month of the exposure.
Diagnostic testing with polymerase chain reaction to confirm tick infection is not routinely available and not informative because of the low risk of transmission, even if B. burgdorferi is identified in the vector.
Checking B. burgdorferi titers similarly has low yield because antibodies may not be present during the early stages of infection, and paired serologic testing with a subsequent convalescent specimen in the absence of symptoms is not cost effective.

**Bibliography**

Ogden NH, Lindsay LR, Schofield SW. Methods to prevent tick bites and Lyme disease. Clin Lab Med. 2015;35:883-99. PMID: 26593263 doi:10.1016/j.cll.2015.07.003

This content was last updated in August 2018.