
### Correct Answer: D) Vaccinia immunization 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate a patient with potential smallpox exposure.

#### **Key Point:** Vaccinia immunization is appropriate in the event of possible exposure to smallpox (variola).

This man has potentially been exposed to variola and requires active vaccinia immunization to prevent the development of smallpox. Ideally, vaccinia vaccination should be administered no more than 7 days (but preferably within 3) after the presumed exposure. In 1980, the World Health Organization declared that smallpox had been eradicated worldwide. However, because of its ease of deliberate airborne spread, highly contagious nature, and expected significant morbidity and mortality, smallpox has been identified as a member of the A list of potential agents of bioterrorism. Because routine childhood vaccinia immunization is no longer required or recommended in the United States, most of the population is not immune. Smallpox vaccines are available in the event of exposure. Although none of these vaccines contains the actual variola virus, when properly administered the vaccines elicit a significant protective immune response. Although serious adverse events are a greater risk after administration of any live virus vaccine, including those containing vaccinia, persons at high risk for complications from replication-component vaccines are also at higher risk for severe smallpox. Unless the patient is severely immunodeficient (within 4 months of bone marrow transplantation, HIV infection with CD4 cell counts <50/µL, or severe combined immunodeficiency), the vaccine should be given. This patient's use of infliximab would not exclude him from vaccination.
The core protein cysteine protease inhibitor tecovirimat, which has proven activity against members of the orthopox genus, has been approved for the treatment of smallpox in the event of a potential outbreak.
Airborne precautions after potential exposure would only be indicated if fever or other signs of active infection occurred.
Vaccinia immune globulin, available from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, consists of pooled human antibodies and is indicated for the treatment of severe vaccinia virus vaccine complications or when vaccination is contraindicated.

**Bibliography**

Petersen BW, Damon IK, Pertowski CA, Meaney-Delman D, Guarnizo JT, Beigi RH, et al. Clinical guidance for smallpox vaccine use in a postevent vaccination program. MMWR Recomm Rep. 2015;64:1-26. PMID: 25695372

This content was last updated in August 2018.