
### Correct Answer: B) Sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.

#### **Key Point:** Sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is the most common form of prion disease, involving several neurologic systems and rapid progression of apparent dementia.

This patient most likely has sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD). This is the most common form of prion disease and has no evidence of environmental risk factors. Involvement of several neurologic systems and a rapid onset of apparent dementia are classic manifestations of prion disease. On physical examination, ataxia, myoclonus, and a rapidly progressive dementia are present. MRI abnormalities are not specific for sCJD and vary with the clinical syndrome. Patients with increased T2 signal in the caudate and putamen are more likely to have early dementia and shorter survival. No simple, noninvasive assay is available to diagnose sCJD; however, the presence of T-tau or 14-3-3 protein in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) can be suggestive. The definitive diagnostic test is a brain biopsy demonstrating widespread spongiform changes with gliosis. No definitive treatment exists for any prion disease, and most are rapidly fatal.
Cryptococcal meningitis may present initially with altered mentation. Cryptococcal meningitis can be seen in apparently immunocompetent persons; however, it is likely that most patients who develop this infection have some underlying immune deficiency. Lumbar puncture may show a high opening pressure, and the CSF typically shows a lymphocytic pleocytosis. The patient's findings are not compatible with this diagnosis.
Tuberculous meningitis may present with waxing and waning mental status changes. However, the CSF in tuberculous meningitis frequently shows high protein (>500 mg/dL [5000 mg/L]) and low glucose (<40 mg/dL [2.22 mmol/L]) levels. Additionally, MRI may reveal basilar pachymeningitis and occasional tuberculomas, which are not seen in this patient.
Vascular neurocognitive disorder (VND) is the term now used to describe cognitive impairment of any degree resulting from cerebrovascular disease. The diagnosis is made when neuroimaging or clinical history reveals evidence of a stroke or subclinical cerebrovascular disease that is responsible for impairment of at least one cognitive domain. The absence of infarcts on MRI and rapid progression of this patient's symptoms are not compatible with VND.

**Bibliography**

Kim MO, Geschwind MD. Clinical update of Jakob-Creutzfeldt disease. Curr Opin Neurol. 2015;28:302-10. PMID: 25923128 doi:10.1097/WCO.0000000000000197

This content was last updated in August 2018.