
### Correct Answer: C) Stop all antibiotics 

**Educational Objective:** Choose the appropriate treatment duration for uncomplicated community-acquired pneumonia.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with uncomplicated community-acquired pneumonia not requiring ICU admission, a short course of antibiotic therapy (5-7 days) is sufficient.

The most appropriate management for this patient at discharge is to discontinue her antibiotics. She had pneumococcal pneumonia requiring hospitalization for treatment and stabilization. Her clinical status rapidly improved with appropriate empiric therapy. The Infectious Diseases Society of America/American Thoracic Society guidelines recommend an antibiotic treatment duration for uncomplicated community-acquired pneumonia of 5 to 7 days. A recent randomized trial found no difference in clinical response between patients treated for 5 days compared with control patients who received a median of 10 days of antibiotic therapy. This study was limited to immunocompetent patients who did not require admission to the ICU and who defervesced at least 48 hours before antibiotic discontinuation; short-course therapy has not been validated in patients with complicated infection, including those at risk for Staphylococcus aureus or Pseudomonas infection. Short-course therapy offers the advantages of minimizing the risk of adverse effects, lowering cost, and potentially decreasing length of hospital stay. Because this patient completed more than 5 days of therapy during hospitalization, no further antibiotics are indicated at discharge.
Under the same circumstances, azithromycin would be contraindicated because the isolate was resistant to erythromycin, indicating a class effect of macrolide resistance.
Continuing ceftriaxone would necessitate either continued inpatient intravenous treatment or placement of an indwelling intravenous line for outpatient therapy, both unnecessary interventions.
The management of patients who have clinically responded before completing 5 days of inpatient therapy can be challenging, especially if cultures are negative. Antibiotic de-escalation from parenteral to oral formulations is appropriate when patients have clinically improved. If this patient had been ready for discharge before completing 5 days of therapy, transition to oral amoxicillin would have been appropriate for completing the antibiotic course.
Although levofloxacin is active against this patient's infection, it is overly broad therapy for a penicillin-sensitive strain of Streptococcus pneumoniae.

**Bibliography**

Uranga A, España PP, Bilbao A, Quintana JM, Arriaga I, Intxausti M, et al. Duration of antibiotic treatment in community-acquired pneumonia: a multicenter randomized clinical trial. JAMA Intern Med. 2016;176:1257-65. PMID: 27455166 doi:10.1001/jamainternmed.2016.3633

This content was last updated in August 2018.