
### Correct Answer: C) Plain radiography 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose osteomyelitis using radiography.

#### **Key Point:** Plain radiography is the most cost-effective diagnostic test that can confirm a suspected case of osteomyelitis, but it is not sufficiently sensitive to exclude the diagnosis.

Plain radiography is the appropriate initial diagnostic test for a patient with suspected osteomyelitis. This patient presents with pain and swelling in his finger after a traumatic injury that has healed. The clinical examination is not consistent with a skin and soft tissue infection (lack of erythema); however, inflammatory markers are elevated, so osteomyelitis due to a contiguous spread of organisms introduced by the injury should be considered. Cortical bone loss must be greater than 50% for a plain radiograph to show findings diagnostic of osteomyelitis, so plain radiography is not sufficiently sensitive to exclude this diagnosis. However, plain radiography is much less expensive than the other available imaging modalities and can be quite specific for bone infection if findings are positive, so this test should be done first. The utility of plain radiography in this patient may be higher because a film was taken at the time of the injury, and subtle changes may be apparent when compared.
If the plain radiograph is not diagnostic, a gadolinium-enhanced MRI would be the next imaging test to pursue. A contrast-enhanced CT can be performed if MRI is contraindicated (for example, because of the presence of hardware). A three-phase bone scan could be ordered with a labeled leukocyte scan, but it should only be done if an MRI or a CT with contrast cannot be obtained. Ultrasonography has limited utility in the diagnosis of osteomyelitis.
With the exception of ultrasonography, all these imaging modalities are expensive and, depending on the technique, unnecessarily expose the patient to contrast agents and excessive radiation; the clinician should always consult with the radiologist if the best imaging modality to confirm the suspected diagnosis is in question.

**Bibliography**

Beaman FD, von Herrmann PF, Kransdorf MJ, Adler RS, Amini B, Appel M, et al; Expert Panel on Musculoskeletal Imaging. ACR Appropriateness Criteria® suspected osteomyelitis, septic arthritis, or soft tissue infection (excluding spine and diabetic foot). J Am Coll Radiol. 2017;14:S326-S337. PMID: 28473089 doi:10.1016/j.jacr.2017.02.008

This content was last updated in August 2018.