
### Correct Answer: D) Piperacillin-tazobactam 

**Educational Objective:** Treat aspiration pneumonia.

#### **Key Point:** In community-dwelling patients with aspiration pneumonia, the most common organisms are anaerobic bacteria, such as microaerophilic streptococci, Fusobacterium, Peptostreptococcus, and Prevotella species as well as Enterobacteriaceae.

In addition to starting azithromycin for empiric coverage of atypical organisms, piperacillin-tazobactam is the most appropriate antibiotic treatment for this patient. He requires ICU admission for severe, progressive community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) after outpatient therapy with levofloxacin has failed to improve his infection. Levofloxacin was an appropriate empiric treatment choice for CAP in this patient, considering his history of heavy alcohol use, which increases the risk of infection with Enterobacteriaceae, including Klebsiella species. Antibiotic treatment failure can result from poor adherence, a noninfectious cause of symptoms (such as pulmonary embolism), a nonbacterial infection (such as histoplasmosis), lack of source control (as with empyema), or infection with a resistant organism. The patient's history of heavy alcohol use suggests the possibility of aspiration pneumonia, whereby normal oropharyngeal organisms gain access to the lower airways and cause infection. Other risk factors for aspiration pneumonia include poor dentition, gastroesophageal reflux, dysphagia, vomiting, and reduced consciousness, as can be seen in patients with alcoholism, illicit drug use, or seizures. The localization to the right lower lobe is also consistent with aspiration because this area is dependent when patients are lying supine. In community-dwelling patients with aspiration pneumonia, the most common organisms are anaerobic bacteria, such as microaerophilic streptococci, Fusobacterium, Peptostreptococcus, and Prevotella species; however, Enterobacteriaceae may also be present. Therefore, an empiric agent active against anaerobic organisms and gram-negative bacteria is indicated; piperacillin-tazobactam meets these criteria.
Ceftriaxone has adequate coverage against Enterobacteriaceae (as well as other more common flora such as Streptococcus pneumoniae) but has limited activity against anaerobic organisms. Therefore, this agent would not be ideal when aspiration pneumonia is a concern.
Clindamycin is active against gram-positive anaerobic organisms but not against gram-negative agents, such as Fusobacterium or Prevotella. It also lacks activity against other aerobic gram-negative bacilli, such as Haemophilus influenzae.
Metronidazole has excellent activity against anaerobic gram-negative rods but limited utility against anaerobic gram-positive cocci and streptococcal species, so it would not be appropriate as empiric therapy for aspiration pneumonia.

**Bibliography**

DiBardino DM, Wunderink RG. Aspiration pneumonia: a review of modern trends. J Crit Care. 2015;30:40-8. PMID: 25129577 doi:10.1016/j.jcrc.2014.07.011

This content was last updated in March 2020.