
### Correct Answer: D) Post–Lyme disease syndrome 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose post–Lyme disease syndrome.

#### **Key Point:** Post–Lyme disease syndrome is a poorly understood sequela of Lyme disease thought to be due to a disordered immunologic response to the preceding infection; most patients slowly improve over a 6-month course, and treatment is directed toward symptom amelioration.

This patient most likely now has post–Lyme disease syndrome (PLDS). In a patient who lives in or has visited an area endemic for Lyme disease, a skin lesion consistent with erythema migrans is sufficient to make a clinical diagnosis of early localized Lyme disease. Early localized Lyme disease is treated with doxycycline for 10 to 21 days. Despite appropriate therapy, this patient continues to experience nonspecific but debilitating symptoms that have persisted for several months. She most likely has PLDS, a poorly understood sequela of Lyme disease that sometimes is misclassified as “chronic Lyme disease” despite a lack of microbiologic evidence of a persistent viable organism. PLDS is thought to be due to a disordered immunologic response to the preceding infection. Most patients slowly improve over a period of 6 months, and treatment is directed toward symptom amelioration. Randomized controlled trials have shown that patients with PLDS do not respond to prolonged courses of antibiotic therapy, and such treatment is not warranted in this population.
Anaplasma phagocytophilum, Babesia microti, and Powassan virus are all transmitted by the same tick vector as Borrelia burgdorferi, the causative spirochete of Lyme disease, and coinfections may occur. Anaplasmosis is treated with doxycycline, and the patient's previous course of treatment should have eradicated any incubating disease.
In contrast, doxycycline is not effective therapy for babesiosis. Mild babesiosis may present as a nonspecific flu-like illness, although fever typically is present. The hallmark of babesiosis is hemolytic anemia, and normal laboratory studies in this patient essentially exclude this diagnosis.
In the United States, late-stage Lyme disease most commonly presents as an inflammatory arthritis involving larger joints. The patient has no physical findings consistent with this diagnosis and had appropriate treatment to prevent progression to late-stage Lyme disease.
Powassan virus causes meningoencephalitis rather than the nonspecific symptoms manifested by this patient.

**Bibliography**

Aucott JN. Posttreatment Lyme disease syndrome. Infect Dis Clin North Am. 2015;29:309-23. PMID: 25999226 doi:10.1016/j.idc.2015.02.012

This content was last updated in August 2018.