
### Correct Answer: E) Supportive care 

**Educational Objective:** Treat enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli infection with supportive care.

#### **Key Point:** Primary enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli infections should receive supportive care; administration of antibiotics or antimotility medications is associated with increased risk for hemolytic uremic syndrome.

This patient has a diarrheal infection caused by enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) and should receive supportive care and monitoring for the development of complications, such as hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS). EHEC strains such as E. coli O157:H7 and O104:H4 produce a Shiga-like toxin that can cause hemorrhagic colitis; consequently, EHEC is also referred to as Shiga toxin–producing E. coli (STEC). Supportive care typically consists of oral hydrations salts; salty liquids such as chicken soup are also effective. Bismuth subsalicylate compounds can help reduce the number of bowel movements.
E. coli infection is typically foodborne, with outbreaks often associated with consumption of a contaminated food source. Beef is commonly responsible when the intestinal contents from an infected animal contaminate the meat during processing. Consumption of fewer than 100 organisms can result in symptoms.
Although EHEC does not invade the mucosa, inflammation is caused by toxin release. The clinical presentation usually consists of abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, and leukocytosis; fever is often absent or low grade. HUS complicates less than 10% of EHEC infections, manifesting as microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and kidney injury. It is more commonly seen in children than adults.
Diagnostic testing depends on laboratory protocol. Some laboratories routinely plate all stool samples on media capable of detecting E. coli O157:H7; other laboratories restrict testing to only grossly bloody stools or to clinician request. Considering this variability, the laboratory should be notified when STEC is a concern to ensure appropriate testing is performed.
Antibiotics (such as ceftriaxone, ciprofloxacin, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole) and antimotility agents (such as loperamide) are usually not administered to patients with EHEC because they do not provide clinical benefit and their use is associated with an increased risk for HUS.

**Bibliography**

Freedman SB, Xie J, Neufeld MS, Hamilton WL, Hartling L, Tarr PI, et al; Alberta Provincial Pediatric Enteric Infection Team (APPETITE). Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli infection, antibiotics, and risk of developing hemolytic uremic syndrome: a meta-analysis. Clin Infect Dis. 2016;62:1251-1258. PMID: 26917812 doi:10.1093/cid/ciw099

This content was last updated in August 2018.