
### Correct Answer: A) Cytomegalovirus infection 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose cytomegalovirus infection in a solid organ transplant recipient with colitis.

#### **Key Point:** Latent cytomegalovirus infection is present in 60% to 90% of adults, and patients who are immunosuppressed may experience disease reactivation with retinitis, pneumonitis, hepatitis, bone marrow suppression, colitis with bloody diarrhea, esophagitis, or adrenalitis.

The most likely diagnosis in this patient is cytomegalovirus infection. Approximately 60% to 90% of adults have latent cytomegalovirus infection, with reactivation of disease common in persons who are immunosuppressed (patients with AIDS, transplant recipients, patients taking glucocorticoids). Cytomegalovirus is an important pathogen in kidney transplant recipients, and the risk of cytomegalovirus infection depends on the serologic status of the kidney donor and recipient at the time of transplantation. The highest risk occurs when a seronegative recipient (one who has never had a cytomegalovirus infection) receives a kidney from a seropositive donor. Cytomegalovirus can cause retinitis (especially in persons with AIDS), pneumonitis, hepatitis, bone marrow suppression, colitis with bloody diarrhea, esophagitis, and adrenalitis. This patient recently received a kidney transplant; he has bone marrow suppression (leukopenia and thrombocytopenia), hepatitis (elevated aminotransferase levels), and bloody diarrhea consistent with cytomegalovirus reactivation. Diagnosis relies on isolation of the virus from bodily fluids, such as urine; detection of cytomegalovirus pp65 antigen in leukocytes; cytopathic demonstration of “owl's eye” intracellular inclusions from tissue biopsy (colon in this case) (shown); polymerase chain reaction; and serologic assays. Antiviral treatment is typically indicated in cases of disease reactivation in immunocompromised patients and occasionally in immunocompetent hosts with severe disease. Valganciclovir is the first-line agent and is also used as prophylaxis or pre-emptive therapy in certain transplant patients.
Entamoeba histolytica and Salmonella enteritidis can cause bloody diarrhea, but neither presents with pancytopenia. Therefore, they are unlikely possibilities in a solid organ transplant recipient. Furthermore, E. histolytica would not cause elevated aminotransferase levels in the absence of a liver abscess.
Strongyloides stercoralis is the only parasite that has an autoinfection route (ability to complete its life cycle entirely within the human host) resulting in an increasing burden of parasites that can survive for decades in patients. Disseminated strongyloidiasis after solid organ transplantation can present with abdominal pain and diarrhea, but it is usually nonbloody. Furthermore, disseminated Strongyloides infection may present with sepsis with colonic bacteria, serpiginous rash, meningitis, or eosinophilic pneumonia. All patients scheduled for solid organ transplantation are now screened with a Strongyloides antibody and treated with ivermectin to decrease the incidence of this infection.

**Bibliography**

Angarone M, Ison MG. Diarrhea in solid organ transplant recipients. Curr Opin Infect Dis. 2015;28:308-16. PMID: 26098506 doi:10.1097/QCO.0000000000000172

This content was last updated in August 2018.