
### Correct Answer: C) Gram stain and culture of incision site drainage 

**Educational Objective:** Evaluate surgical site infection.

#### **Key Point:** A superficial incisional infection involves the underlying soft tissue and presents with inflammatory changes at the incision site (erythema, tenderness), with or without purulent drainage, and few if any systemic signs of infection such as fever; therapy is guided by Gram stain and culture of the wound.

Gram stain and culture of the drainage from the incision site is the most appropriate test to perform next. Most surgical site infections (SSIs) occur within 30 days of surgery (90 days for surgery involving placement of an implant). The major sources of organisms causing SSIs are from the patient's skin and possibly the alimentary tract or female genital tract, depending on the type of surgery. The organism most often isolated is Staphylococcus aureus, followed by coagulase-negative staphylococci, Escherichia coli, Enterococcus faecalis, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. SSIs are categorized as superficial incisional, deep incisional, and organ/deep organ space infections. A superficial incisional infection involves the underlying soft tissue and presents with inflammatory changes at the incision site (erythema, tenderness), with or without purulent drainage, and few if any systemic signs of infection, such as fever. Such incisions may require reopening to determine the extent of infection, allow complete drainage, and obtain proper specimens for Gram stain and culture to guide antibiotic therapy. Obtaining a culture is important to identify the pathogen involved and obtain antibiotic sensitivity information to determine if antibiotic-resistant organisms are present. Wound drainage fluid, purulent fluid, or infected tissue is the best culture source. Deep tissue or wound cultures are preferable to superficial wound swab cultures, which are more likely to reflect skin or wound colonization and do not necessarily yield the causative pathogen. The most narrow-spectrum oral antibiotic should be used whenever possible.
Deep incisional (involving fascia and/or muscle layers) SSIs usually present with some systemic signs of infection, such as fever and leukocytosis. These infections are managed with debridement and antibiotic therapy guided by results of deep-tissue cultures. Bacteremia may occur with deep or organ space infections, and blood cultures should be considered in such circumstances but are unnecessary in patients with a superficial site infection such as this one.
CT is useful in cases of organ or deep space (tissue deep to the fascia) SSIs to identify abscesses and plan necessary drainage procedures. Imaging, such as ultrasonography or CT, does not provide additional information needed to manage this type of SSI.
A superficial swab of the incision site is likely to pick up skin flora and make interpreting the culture results difficult.

**Bibliography**

Garner BH, Anderson DJ. Surgical site infections: an update. Infect Dis Clin North Am. 2016;30:909-929. PMID: 27816143 doi:10.1016/j.idc.2016.07.010

This content was last updated in August 2018.