
### Correct Answer: C) Liposomal amphotericin B and flucytosine 

**Educational Objective:** Treat cryptococcal meningitis.

#### **Key Point:** Combination therapy with liposomal amphotericin B and flucytosine is the treatment of choice for cryptococcal meningitis.

This patient should be treated with liposomal amphotericin B and flucytosine. Cryptococcus neoformans is inhaled and causes an initial pulmonary infection. Healthy persons generally contain the initial infection because of intact cell-mediated immunity; however, immunocompromised persons are at risk for dissemination. Risk factors for dissemination include AIDS, organ transplantation, glucocorticoid treatment, diabetes mellitus, liver dysfunction, and kidney injury. The central nervous system is the most common site of disseminated cryptococcosis. The patient most likely has cryptococcal meningitis, as evidenced by the classic triad of headache, fever, and positive cryptococcal antigen titer in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Because the mortality rate may approach 60% in patients without HIV with cryptococcal meningitis, it is imperative that the appropriate antifungal regimen of liposomal amphotericin B and flucytosine be initiated as soon as possible and continued for a minimum of 2 weeks.
Fluconazole, an azole antifungal agent, has in vitro and in vivo activity against C. neoformans, but it is recommended as de-escalation therapy after the patient has received at least 2 weeks of amphotericin B and flucytosine and is clinically stable. Fluconazole should be continued for at least 2 months after diagnosis, assuming the patient improves and clinical disease manifestations respond to therapy.
Itraconazole, an azole antifungal agent, has some activity in vitro against C. neoformans. It is not recommended for primary therapy because of a lack of data. It may be used as an alternative agent and as suppressive therapy or prophylaxis if fluconazole is not available.
Micafungin, an echinocandin antifungal agent, is the drug of choice for candidemia and invasive candidiasis but has no activity against C. neoformans.

**Bibliography**

Maziarz EK, Perfect JR. Cryptococcosis. Infect Dis Clin North Am. 2016;30:179-206. PMID: 26897067 doi:10.1016/j.idc.2015.10.006

This content was last updated in September 2019.