
### Correct Answer: A) Borrelia burgdorferi IgG Western blot 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose late disseminated Lyme disease.

#### **Key Point:** Confirmatory serologic testing using a two-tiered diagnostic approach that includes enzyme immunoassay and IgG Western blotting (and, early in the course of disease, IgM Western blotting) is required for definitive diagnosis of late disseminated Lyme disease.

This patient should have IgG Western blotting to detect antigens to Borrelia burgdorferi. She has symptoms of monoarticular arthritis, which has a broad differential diagnosis. Her presentation is most compatible with late disseminated Lyme disease; her previous residence in a Lyme-endemic area and her occupation, with its increased likelihood of tick exposure, increase the probability of this diagnosis. Onset of symptoms of Lyme arthritis typically occurs months, and sometimes years, after the initial infection. Involvement of large joints, particularly the knees, is common. Confirmatory serologic testing using a two-tiered diagnostic approach is required for definitive diagnosis of late disseminated Lyme disease. The initial test is a Lyme enzyme immunoassay antibody titer. This test is very sensitive, and, in a patient suspected of having late disseminated Lyme disease, a negative result essentially excludes the diagnosis. In patients with a positive or equivocal result, as with this patient, a second-tier test is necessary to confirm the diagnosis. Early in the course of infection, both IgM and IgG Western blots are recommended because IgM antibody production predates IgG development. After 4 weeks or more of symptoms, IgG antibody is presumed to be positive, and thus a positive IgM Western blot with a negative IgG likely represents a false-positive result. For this reason, the testing algorithm from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention specifies that when signs and symptoms are present for more than 30 days, only a confirmatory IgG Western blot should be performed.
The C6 antibody corresponds to a highly conserved protein common to all Borrelia strains. Testing using this assay may have a role in diagnosis of infections that occurred outside of the United States. For domestically acquired infections, this test is not currently recommended to replace either component of the conventional two-tier algorithm.
The sensitivity of synovial polymerase chain reaction is low, and this method is not recommended as an initial diagnostic test for Lyme arthritis.

**Bibliography**

Arvikar SL, Steere AC. Diagnosis and treatment of Lyme arthritis. Infect Dis Clin North Am. 2015;29:269-80. PMID: 25999223 doi:10.1016/j.idc.2015.02.004

This content was last updated in March 2020.