
### Correct Answer: D) Symptoms of tendon or joint pain 

**Educational Objective:** Monitor for ciprofloxacin adverse effects.

#### **Key Point:** Fluoroquinolone antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin are associated with the development of tendinitis and tendon rupture, so patients should be counseled to report tendon or joint pain and swelling.

This patient should be monitored for tendon or joint pain. Fluoroquinolones (such as ciprofloxacin and delafloxacin) are associated with the development of tendinitis and tendon rupture. Most tendinitis occurrences (90%) involve the Achilles tendon and are more common in men and persons older than 60 years. Tendon rupture occurs in 40% of patients and is more common in women. Additional risk factors include concomitant glucocorticoid treatment and solid organ transplantation. Tendinitis can occur anytime during treatment and up to 6 months after discontinuation of the antibiotic. Patients should be counseled to immediately report tendon pain, swelling, or inflammation and stop taking the fluoroquinolone. Other adverse effects involve the nervous system and include headache, dizziness, insomnia, and alteration in mood. Peripheral neuropathy usually occurs early in therapy; symptoms can last years after fluoroquinolone discontinuation and may be irreversible. Another important adverse effect of fluoroquinolones is the potential for QT prolongation and the development of serious arrhythmias. Fluoroquinolones should be avoided in patients with known QT prolongation, risk factors for torsades de pointes, or concomitant administration of other medications that prolong the QT interval. The FDA advises restricting fluoroquinolone use in uncomplicated infections.
The gastrointestinal effects of fluoroquinolones (anorexia, nausea, vomiting, mild abdominal discomfort) do not include pancreatitis, so monitoring the serum lipase level is unnecessary; regardless, the serum lipase level would not be measured unless the patient had symptoms compatible with acute pancreatitis.
Fluoroquinolones are associated with hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia but not with disturbances in sodium level. Therefore, sodium levels do not require monitoring. Hypoglycemia occurs most often in older adult patients with diabetes mellitus but can occur in patients without diabetes. Hyperglycemia has also been associated with the use of fluoroquinolones. Patients should be monitored closely for signs and symptoms of disordered glucose regulation, but monitoring of glucose levels is not recommended in most patients without diabetes.
Stool should be tested for Clostridium difficile toxin or with polymerase chain reaction assays to detect the genes responsible for production of toxins only if the patient develops diarrhea.

**Bibliography**

Lewis T, Cook J. Fluoroquinolones and tendinopathy: a guide for athletes and sports clinicians and a systematic review of the literature. J Athl Train. 2014;49:422-7. PMID: 24762232 doi:10.4085/1062-6050-49.2.09

This content was last updated in August 2018.