
### Correct Answer: C) Candida pyelonephritis 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose invasive candidiasis.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with invasive candidiasis, therapy with an oral azole (if the Candida species is susceptible) or amphotericin B should be initiated immediately; the total duration of therapy should be 10 to 14 days.

This patient has Candida pyelonephritis, a form of invasive candidiasis. She has several risk factors for candidiasis, such as recently taking broad-spectrum antibiotics, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, and a history of recurrent urinary tract infections. These risk factors, in combination with the findings of yeast, leukocytes, and erythrocytes in the urine, is classic for this infection. Although the urine culture only grew 10,000 colony-forming units of Candida glabrata, the colony count may not correlate with active infection in Candida infections of the urinary tract. Thus, antifungal therapy with amphotericin B should be initiated immediately. After identification of the species, the antifungal agent may be de-escalated to an oral azole if the Candida species is susceptible to azoles. The total duration should be 10 to 14 days of antifungal therapy.
Acute diverticulitis may present with the same manifestations this patient had. However, the bilateral flank pain and the lack of abdominal pain make diverticulitis less likely. In addition, the urinalysis results showing leukocytes too numerous to count and the classic CT scan finding of perinephric stranding point to a kidney infection.
Antibiotic-resistant bacterial pyelonephritis is a possibility and could explain her progressive symptoms despite appropriate antibiotic therapy for pyelonephritis. However, this diagnosis is excluded by the patient's urine culture, which showed only Candida species.
Patients with acute kidney infarction typically present with acute flank pain or generalized abdominal pain, often associated with nausea and vomiting and, less commonly, with fever; hematuria is present in one third of patients. Over half of kidney infarctions are cardioembolic, and atrial fibrillation is commonly found in patients with this diagnosis. A contrast-enhanced CT scan will show a wedge-shaped perfusion defect. This patient's normal abdominal contrast-enhanced CT scan and urinalysis argue against kidney infarction.

**Bibliography**

Pappas PG, Kauffman CA, Andes DR, Clancy CJ, Marr KA, Ostrosky-Zeichner L, et al. Executive summary: clinical practice guideline for the management of candidiasis: 2016 update by the Infectious Diseases Society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2016;62:409-17. PMID: 26810419 doi:10.1093/cid/civ1194

This content was last updated in September 2019.