
### Correct Answer: C) Nucleic acid amplification testing 

**Educational Objective:** Diagnose primary herpes simplex virus genital infection.

#### **Key Point:** Nucleic acid amplification testing is the most appropriate diagnostic choice for confirming genital ulcer disease caused by herpes simplex virus.

The patient's presentation is most consistent with primary genital infection with herpes simplex virus (HSV), and nucleic acid amplification testing (NAAT) for HSV-1 and HSV-2 is the preferred method to confirm the diagnosis. HSV is the most common cause of genital ulcer disease in the United States. The epidemiology of primary genital HSV infections has shifted, and up to half are now caused by HSV-1 rather than HSV-2. However, HSV-1 is less able to establish latency in the genital region, so most recurrent genital infections are caused by HSV-2. NAAT is highly sensitive and specific for HSV. Regardless of type, the initial treatment of primary genital HSV infection is the same (acyclovir, valacyclovir, or famciclovir), but patients with HSV-1 primary genital infection can be counseled that they are less likely to experience recurrent genital ulcers. This patient must also be counseled regarding the natural history of his infection, the need to inform sexual partners of his diagnosis, and the need to avoid sexual contact when ulcers are present. He should be screened for other sexually transmitted infections (STIs), including gonorrhea, chlamydia, syphilis, and HIV, and counseled on the use of condoms to reduce the risk of STI transmission.
Darkfield examination is the appropriate diagnostic test if genital ulcer disease caused by syphilis is suspected. Although syphilitic chancres may appear in multiples and are often accompanied by regional lymphadenopathy, single ulcers are far more common and appear as deeper ulcers with raised regular borders. Syphilitic chancres are generally painless.
Type-specific serologic testing for HSV-1 and HSV-2 should not be used to confirm the diagnosis of genital ulcer disease, especially when ulcers are present. Patients may have evidence of HSV infection on the basis of serologic testing with genital ulcers resulting from another cause.
Direct fluorescence assay testing of the ulcer is not as sensitive as NAAT. Viral culture is a better option if NAAT testing is unavailable.
For all diagnostic tests, sensitivity is improved by obtaining the sample by rotating the swab firmly on the ulcer base after a vesicle is unroofed or from a lesion that has been ulcerated for less than 24 hours.

**Bibliography**

Gnann JW Jr, Whitley RJ. Clinical practice. Genital herpes. N Engl J Med. 2016;375:666-74. PMID: 27532832 doi:10.1056/NEJMcp1603178

This content was last updated in August 2018.