
### Correct Answer: D) Change to penicillin and clindamycin 

**Educational Objective:** Treat a patient with necrotizing fasciitis and toxic shock syndrome secondary to group A Streptococcus.

#### **Key Point:** In patients with necrotizing fasciitis caused by group A Streptococcus, the combination of penicillin and clindamycin is indicated for antimicrobial therapy after surgical debridement.

The antibiotic treatment should be switched from vancomycin and piperacillin-tazobactam to penicillin and clindamycin. This patient has necrotizing fasciitis (NF) secondary to group A Streptococcus (GAS) infection (usually Streptococcus pyogenes). Additionally, he has toxic shock syndrome, which occurs in approximately 50% of patients with GAS NF. A definitive diagnosis of toxic shock syndrome is established by isolation of the organism from a sterile site (blood and tissue), hypotension, and the presence of multiorgan involvement (in this case, kidney, liver, bone marrow [thrombocytopenia]). Surgical debridement is the primary treatment for GAS NF. The Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA) also recommends penicillin plus clindamycin for antibiotic treatment of GAS NF. Although S. pyogenes is susceptible to penicillin, clindamycin is added because of its ability to suppress streptococcal toxin production. More studies are needed to establish the exact role of intravenous immune globulin in this setting, and it is not recommended by the IDSA in the latest guidelines.
Doxycycline plus a third-generation cephalosporin, such as ceftazidime, ceftriaxone, or cefotaxime, is recommended by the IDSA for treatment of Vibrio vulnificus–associated necrotizing skin and soft tissue infections. This combination would not treat GAS NF adequately because it does not include a protein synthesis inhibitor to suppress toxin production.
Empiric therapy for necrotizing skin and soft tissue infections should address the possibility of mixed aerobic and anaerobic organisms, including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Vancomycin or linezolid plus imipenem or meropenem, or piperacillin-tazobactam, or metronidazole plus ceftriaxone, is recommended. When culture results are available, however, antibiotic stewardship principles would advocate discontinuing vancomycin and piperacillin-tazobactam and initiating targeted therapy consisting of penicillin and clindamycin against S. pyogenes. The combination of linezolid and imipenem would be too broad in its coverage after the culture results reveal GAS.

**Bibliography**

Stevens DL, Bisno AL, Chambers HF, Dellinger EP, Goldstein EJ, Gorbach SL, et al. Practice guidelines for the diagnosis and management of skin and soft tissue infections: 2014 update by the infectious diseases society of America. Clin Infect Dis. 2014;59:147-59. PMID: 24947530 doi:10.1093/cid/ciu296

This content was last updated in August 2018.